CITY CODE
of
DUBUQUE, IOWA
Code current through:
Ord. 34-25, passed 7-21-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Dubuque, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 34-25, passed July 21, 2025. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
 
Prepared by: Wally Wernimont, City Planner Address: City Hall, 50 W. 13th St
Telephone: 563-589-4210
Return to: Adrienne N. Breitfelder, City Clerk Address: City Hall, 50 W. 13th
St Telephone: 563-589-4121
 
ORDINANCE NO. 35 - 25
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 16 OF THE CITY OF DUBUQUE CODE OF ORDINANCES,
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE, BY RECLASSIFYING HEREINAFTER DESCRIBED PROPERTY
LOCATED AT 3185 WEST 32 ND STREET (PIN 1016227007) FROM R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TO OR OFFICE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT WITH CONDITIONS AS
ESTABLISHED IN THE ATTACHED MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DUBUQUE,
IOWA: 
 
   Section 1. That Title 16 of the City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances, Unified
Development Code, is hereby amended by reclassifying the hereinafter–described
property from R-1 Single-Family Residential District to ORc Office Residential
District with conditions, to wit:
 
Balance of Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 4, and Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 7, of the North
East ¼ of Section 16, Township 89 North, Range 2 East of the 5 th P.M., and to
the centerline of the adjoining public right-of-way,  all in the City of
Dubuque, Iowa.
 
   Section 2. That the foregoing amendment has heretofore been reviewed by the
Zoning Advisory Commission of the City of Dubuque, Iowa.
 
Section 3. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon publication as
provided by law.
 
   Passed, approved and adopted this 15 th day of September, 2025 .
 
 
                  _____________________________________
                  Brad M. Cavanagh, Mayor
 
Attest:
 
_________________________________
Adrienne N. Breitfelder, City Clerk   
 
 
   MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
 
Pursuant to the Iowa Code Section 414.5 (2024), and as an express condition of
rezoning of the property located at 3185 West 32 nd Street (PIN 1016227000) and
legally described as:
 
Balance of Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 4, and Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 7, of the North
East ¼ of Section 16, Township 89 North, Range 2 East of the 5 th P.M., and to
the centerline of the adjoining public right-of-way,  all in the City of
Dubuque, Iowa.
 
which is the subject of Ordinance No. ________- 25, a copy of which is attached
hereto and incorporated herein by reference, the undersigned property owner(s)
agree(s) to the following conditions, all of which the property owner(s)
further agree(s) are reasonable and are imposed to satisfy public needs which
are caused directly by the rezoning:
 
A)   Conditions:
 
1)   The Principal Permitted Uses shall be limited to the following:
a.   General Office.
b.   Single-family residential within an existing structure only.
 
B)   Reclassification of the Subject Property. The City of Dubuque, Iowa may
initiate zoning reclassification proceedings to the R-1 Single-Family
Residential District if the property owner fails to complete any of the
conditions or provisions of this Agreement.
 
C)   Modifications. Any modifications of this Agreement shall be considered a
zoning reclassification and shall be subject to the provisions of the Title 16,
Unified Development Code, governing zoning reclassifications. All such
modifications must be approved by the City Council of Dubuque, Iowa.
 
D)   Recording. A copy of this Agreement shall be recorded with the Dubuque
County Recorder as a permanent record of the conditions accepted as part of
this rezoning approval within ten (10) days of the adoption of Ordinance No.
________- 25.
 
E)   Construction. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted as though
it were part of Title 16 of the City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances, Unified
Development Code.
 
F)   This Agreement shall be binding upon the undersigned and his/her heirs,
successors and assignees.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACCEPTANCE OF ORDINANCE NO. - 25
 
 
 
   I, Earlyn Loeffelholz, property owner, having read the terms and conditions
of the foregoing Ordinance No. ______ - 25 and being familiar with the
conditions thereof, hereby accept this same and agree to the conditions
required therein.
 
   Dated in Dubuque, Iowa this ___________ day of ________________ 2025.
 
 
 
               By: _____________________________________
                Earlyn Loeffelholz
 
 
 
 
 
State of Iowa    )
   ) ss:
County of Dubuque   )
 
On this                  day of  , 20___, before me, a Notary Public in and for
said state, personally appeared
                                                           to me known to be
the person(s) named in and who executed the foregoing instrument, and
acknowledged that they executed the same as their voluntary act and deed.
 
 
________________________________
Notary Public in the State of Iowa
 
My Commission expires:          
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by: Wally Wernimont, City Planner Address: City Hall, 50 W. 13th St
Telephone: 563-589-4210
Return to: Adrienne N. Breitfelder, City Clerk Address: City Hall, 50 W. 13th
St Telephone: 563-589-4121
 
ORDINANCE NO. 36 - 25
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 16 OF THE CITY OF DUBUQUE CODE OF ORDINANCES,
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE, BY RECLASSIFYING HEREINAFTER DESCRIBED PROPERTY
LOCATED AT THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE INTERSECTION OF KEYSTONE DRIVE AND KEY
WAY DRIVE (PIN 1016227007) FROM R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TO R-
3 MODERATE DENSITY MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DUBUQUE,
IOWA: 
 
   Section 1. That Title 16 of the City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances, Unified
Development Code, is hereby amended by reclassifying the hereinafter–described
property from R-2 Two-Family Residential District to R-3 Moderate Density
Multi-Family Residential District, to wit:
 
LOT 2 of Pooh’s Corner and to the centerline of the adjoining public right-of-
way,  all in the City of Dubuque, Iowa.
 
   Section 2. That the foregoing amendment has heretofore been reviewed by the
Zoning Advisory Commission of the City of Dubuque, Iowa.
 
Section 3. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon publication as
provided by law.
 
   Passed, approved and adopted this 15 th day of September, 2025 .
 
 
                  _____________________________________
                  Brad M. Cavanagh, Mayor
 
Attest:
 
_________________________________
Adrienne N. Breitfelder, City Clerk   
 
 
 
 
Prepared by: Wally Wernimont, City Planner Address: City Hall, 50 W. 13th St
Telephone: 563-589-4210
Return to: Adrienne N. Breitfelder, City Clerk Address: City Hall, 50 W. 13th
St Telephone: 563-589-4121
 
ORDINANCE NO. 37 - 25
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 16 OF THE CITY OF DUBUQUE CODE OF ORDINANCES,
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE, BY RECLASSIFYING HEREINAFTER DESCRIBED PROPERTY
LOCATED AT 1550 ELM STREET (PIN 1024283003) and 411 EAST 15 TH STREET (PIN
1024283004) FROM HI HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT TO C-4 DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL
DISTRICT
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DUBUQUE,
IOWA: 
 
   Section 1. That Title 16 of the City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances, Unified
Development Code, is hereby amended by reclassifying the hereinafter–described
property from HI Heavy Industrial District to C-4 Downtown Commercial District,
to wit:
 
LOTS 182A, 217, 218, 219, 220 and 221 of East Dubuque Addition and LOTS 182,
183, 184, 185, and 186 of East Dubuque Addition and to the centerline of the
adjoining public right-of-way,  all in the City of Dubuque, Iowa.
 
   Section 2. That the foregoing amendment has heretofore been reviewed by the
Zoning Advisory Commission of the City of Dubuque, Iowa.
 
Section 3. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon publication as
provided by law.
 
   Passed, approved and adopted this 15 th day of September, 2025 .
 
 
                  _____________________________________
                  Brad M. Cavanagh, Mayor
 
Attest:
 
_________________________________
Adrienne N. Breitfelder, City Clerk   
 
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
DUBUQUE CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: How Code Designated And Cited
1-1-2: Amendments To Code; Effect Of New Ordinances
1-1-3: Altering Code
1-1-1: HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED:
The ordinances embraced in the following titles, chapters, articles and
sections constitute and are designated the CODE OF ORDINANCES, CITY OF DUBUQUE,
IOWA, and may be so cited. (2007 Code § 1-1)
1-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES:
   A.   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in
any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent
ordinances repeal any title, chapter, article, section or subsection or any
portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and
printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of
such subsequent ordinances until such time as this code and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances.
   B.   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section or subsection
number of this code in substantially the following language: "That section
           of the Code of Ordinances, City of Dubuque, Iowa, is hereby amended
to read as follows: ...". The new provisions shall then be set out in full as
desired.
   C.   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in this code is to
be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances,
City of Dubuque, Iowa, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered,
         which said section reads as follows: ...". The new section shall then
be set out in full as desired. (2007 Code § 1-7)
1-1-3: ALTERING CODE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages, or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. (2007 Code §
1-6)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Severability Of Parts Of Code
1-2-2: Effect Of Repeals
1-2-1: SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE:
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
code shall be declared invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional by the valid
judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity,
unenforceability or unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code. (2007 Code §
1-4)
1-2-2: EFFECT OF REPEALS:
The repeal of an ordinance or section of this code does not revive an ordinance
or section of this code previously repealed, nor affect any rights which have
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, or any proceedings commenced
under or by virtue of the ordinance or section of this code repealed. (2007
Code § 1-5)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Rules Of Construction
1-3-2: Catchlines, Titles And Headings
1-3-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of this code, the following rules shall be observed, unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city
council or repugnant to the context of the provisions:
CITY ATTORNEY: The chief legal officer of the city.
CITY, THE CITY, THIS CITY: The city of Dubuque, Iowa, and shall extend to its
several officers, agents and employees.
CLERK: The clerk of the city.
COMPUTING TIME; LEGAL HOLIDAYS: In computing time, the first day shall be
excluded and the last included, unless the last falls on Sunday, in which case
the time prescribed shall be extended so as to include the whole of the
following Monday. However, when by the provisions of a statute or rule
prescribed under authority of a statute, the last day for the commencement of
an action or proceedings, the filing of a pleading or motion in a pending
action or proceedings, or the perfecting or filing of an appeal from the
decision or award of a court, board, commission, or official falls on a
Saturday, a Sunday, January 1, the third Monday in January, February 12, the
third Monday in February, the last Monday in May, July 4, the first Monday in
September, November 11, the fourth Thursday in November, December 25, and the
following Monday when any of the foregoing named legal holidays fall on a
Sunday, and any day appointed or recommended by the governor of Iowa or the
president of the United States as a day of fasting or thanksgiving, the time
shall be extended to include the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or
legal holiday named in this definition.
COUNTY, THE COUNTY, THIS COUNTY: The county of Dubuque in the state of Iowa.
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY: Whenever a provision appears requiring an officer of
the city to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to
authorize the officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to
perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of
the provision or section designate otherwise.
LAND, REAL ESTATE: The word "land" and phrases "real estate" and "real
property" include land, tenements, hereditaments, and all rights thereto and
interest therein, equitable as well as legal.
MISDEMEANOR: Any unlawful violation of any ordinance of the city, for which,
upon conviction thereof, there is prescribed a punishment.
NUMBER: Words importing the singular number may be extended to several persons
or things, and words importing the plural number may be applied to one person
or thing.
OATH, AFFIRMATION: The word "oath" includes affirmations in all cases where an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in like cases the word "swear"
includes "affirm".
OFFICIALS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, ETC.: Whenever reference is made to officials,
boards and commissions by title only, i.e., "council", "clerk", "the mayor",
etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards and commissions of
the city of Dubuque.
PERSON: Unless otherwise provided by law, "person" means individual,
corporation, government or governmental subdivision or agency, business trust,
estate, trust partnership or association or any other legal entity.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include money, goods, chattels, evidences of debt, and
things in action.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
RIGHT OF ENTRY: Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any
ordinance, or whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that there exists
an ordinance violation in any building or upon any premises within the
jurisdiction of the city, any authorized official of the city may, upon
presentation of proper credentials, enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same and to perform any duty imposed upon such
official by ordinances; provided that, except in emergency situations, such
official shall first give the owner and/or occupant, if they can be located
after reasonable effort, twenty four (24) hour written notice of the official's
intention to enter for such purpose.
SHALL; MUST; MAY: Unless otherwise specifically provided by this code, whenever
the following words are used, their meaning and application shall be:
   A.   The word "shall" imposes a duty.
   B.   The word "must" states a requirement.
   C.   The word "may" confers a power.
STATE, THE STATE: Shall be construed to mean the state of Iowa.
STREET: Any public street, highway, boulevard, avenue, alley, parkway,
sidewalk, public place, plaza, mall or publicly owned right of way or easement
within the limits of the city.
TENSE: Words used in the present or past tense include the future as well as
the present and past.
WORDS AND PHRASES: Words and phrases shall be construed according to the
context and the approved usage of the language; technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law
shall be construed according to such meaning.
WRITTEN; IN WRITING, SIGNATURE: The words "written" and "in writing" may
include any mode of representing words or letters in general use. A
"signature", when required by law, must be made by the writing or markings of
the person whose signature is required. If a person is unable due to a physical
disability to make a written signature or mark, that person may substitute the
following in lieu of a signature required by law:
   A.   The disabled person's name written by another upon the request and in
the presence of the disabled person; or
   B.   A rubber stamp reproduction of the disabled person's name or facsimile
of the actual signature when adopted by the disabled person for all purposes
requiring a signature and then only when affixed by that person or another upon
request and in the disabled person's presence. (2007 Code § 1-2)
1-3-2: CATCHLINES, TITLES AND HEADINGS:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type as
well as the titles, headings, chapter heads, section and subsection heads or
titles, cross references and state law references, unless set out in the body
of the section itself, contained in this code, do not constitute any part of
the law, and are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement or clarify
the contents of a section. (2007 Code § 1-3)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Civil Penalty
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
The doing of any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful, an offense, or a
misdemeanor by this code or any ordinance or code herein adopted by reference,
or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by this code or
any ordinance or code herein adopted by reference is, unless another penalty is
specified, punishable in accordance with the fine set forth in Iowa Code
section 903.1, subsection 1, paragraph a, and subsection 3. (Ord. 28-15, 4-20-
2015)
1-4-2: CIVIL PENALTY:
   A.   Definitions:
   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION: Except those provisions specifically provided under
state law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor or a
simple misdemeanor under chapters 687 through 747 of the code of Iowa, the
doing of any act prohibited or declared to be unlawful, an offense or a
misdemeanor by this code, or any ordinance or code herein adopted by reference,
or omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by this code, or any
ordinance or code herein adopted by reference, is a "municipal infraction" and
is punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.
   OFFICER: Any employee or official authorized to enforce the code of
ordinances of the city of Dubuque.
   REPEAT OFFENSE: A recurring violation of the same section of the code of
ordinances. (2007 Code § 1-15)
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   A municipal infraction is punishable by a civil penalty as provided
in the following schedule, unless a specific schedule of civil penalties is
provided for specific offenses elsewhere in this code:
      SCHEDULE OF CIVIL PENALTIES
 
First offense                Not to exceed $750.00
All other repeated offenses  Not to exceed $1,000.00
 
      2.   Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist by the
violator constitutes a separate offense.
      3.   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not
preclude the city from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same
action as provided in the code of Iowa. (Ord. 60-06, 9-5-2006; amd. 2007 Code §
1-16)
   C.   Civil Citations:
      1.   Any officer authorized by the city manager may issue a civil
citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction.
      2.   The citation shall be served in a manner prescribed by the code of
Iowa. (2007 Code § 1-17)
   D.   Notice Of Violation: Municipal infractions may be initially brought
upon simple notice of violation and if the person charged admits the violation,
upon payment of the penalty to the city and the performance of any other act
required by law to be performed, such person shall not be further prosecuted or
assessed any costs or other expenses for such violation, and the city shall
retain all penalties thus collected. Where a municipal infraction is not
admitted upon simple notice by the person charged or where the person charged
fails to perform any other act required to be performed, or both, a civil
citation shall be filed with the court. A civil citation seeking a penalty for
a municipal infraction, with or without additional relief, may be initially
filed in the court. This subsection does not impose a duty to initially charge
all municipal infractions upon simple notice of violation. (Ord. 59-05, 10-17-
2005)
CHAPTER 5
CHARTER
SECTION:
1-5-1: Purpose
1-5-2: Citation As Charter
1-5-3: Form Of Government
1-5-4: Powers And Duties
1-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a charter embodying the form of
government existing on January 1, 1982. (2007 Code § 2-12)
1-5-2: CITATION AS CHARTER:
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the city of Dubuque, Iowa. (2007
Code § 2-13)
1-5-3: FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
The form of government of the city is the council-manager-ward form of
government. (2007 Code § 2-14)
1-5-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The mayor, city council, city manager and other city officers have such powers
and shall perform such duties as are authorized or required by state law and by
the ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city. (2007 Code § 2-
15)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Composition; Terms
1-6-2: Compensation
1-6-3: Mayor Pro Tem
1-6-4: Emergency Succession For Mayor And Council Members
1-6-1: COMPOSITION; TERMS:
The City Council consists of a Mayor and two (2) Council members elected at
large, and one Council member elected from each of the four (4) wards. The
Mayor and other Council members serve four (4) year staggered terms. The Mayor
is a member of the City Council and may vote on all matters before the Council.
(2007 Code § 2-20)
1-6-2: COMPENSATION:
Effective January 1, 2026, the compensation for the Mayor shall be fifteen
thousand seven hundred thirty two dollars ($15,732.00) per annum, and the
compensation for the City Council members shall be eleven thousand seven
hundred ninety nine dollars ($11,799.00) per annum. (Ord. 40-17, 9-5-2017; amd.
Ord. 27-21, 7-6-2021; Ord. 27-25, 6-16-2025)
1-6-3: MAYOR PRO TEM:
   A.   Term Of Mayor Pro Tem: The term of Mayor Pro Tem shall be eight (8)
months.
   B.   Designation Of Mayor Pro Tem: Council members shall serve as Mayor Pro
Tem in the following order: 1) at large Council member elected to two (2) year
term; 2) Ward Two Council member; 3) Ward Four Council member. Thereafter,
Council members shall serve as Mayor Pro Tem in the following order:
      1.   At large Council member with two (2) years of term remaining;
      2.   Ward One Council member;
      3.   Ward Three Council member;
      4.   At large Council member with two (2) years of term remaining;
      5.   Ward Two Council member;
      6.   Ward Four Council member.
   C.   Vacancy: In the event of a vacancy in the office of a Council member
while such Council member is serving as Mayor Pro Tem, the person appointed or
elected to fill such vacancy shall serve the remainder of the term of Mayor Pro
Tem.
   D.   Absence Of Mayor And Mayor Pro Tem: When the Mayor and the Mayor Pro
Tem are absent or unable to act, the Council members in the following order of
succession shall perform the Mayor's duties:
      1.   Council member at large who has served the longer consecutive term
in office; then Council member at large who has served the shorter consecutive
term in office; in the event their terms are the same, then in alphabetical
order.
      2.   Ward Council member who has served the longest consecutive term in
office; then ward Council member who has served the next longest consecutive
term in office, and so on; in the event that the consecutive terms of ward
Council members in such order are the same, then in alphabetical order. (Ord.
24-18, 7-2-2018)
1-6-4: EMERGENCY SUCCESSION FOR MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS:
   A.   Order Of Succession: When the Mayor and the Mayor Pro Tem are absent or
unable to act, the Council members in the following order of succession shall
perform the Mayor's duties, except that a succeeding Council member may not
appoint, employ or discharge officers or employees without the approval of the
City Council:
      1.   Council member at large who has served the longer consecutive term
in office; then Council member at large who has served the shorter consecutive
term in office; in the event their terms are the same, then in alphabetical
order.
      2.   Ward Council member who has served the longest consecutive term in
office; then ward Council member who has served the next longest consecutive
term in office, and so on; in the event that the consecutive terms of Council
members in such order are the same, then in alphabetical order.
   B.   Official Actions Legal And Binding: Official actions of a succeeding
Council member when the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem are absent or unable to act are
legal and binding to the same extent as if done by the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem.
A succeeding Council member retains all the Council member's powers as a member
of the City Council. (Ord. 67-05, 12-5-2005)
ARTICLE A. RULES AND PROCEDURE
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Purpose
1-6A-2: General Rules
1-6A-3: Types Of Meetings
1-6A-4: Records
1-6A-5: Attendance Of Media At Council Meetings
1-6A-6: Presiding Officer
1-6A-7: Motions
1-6A-8: Amendments To Motions
1-6A-9: Chart Of Preference Of Motions
1-6A-10: Motions For Special Purposes
1-6A-11: Order Of Business And Agenda
1-6A-12: Ordinances, Resolutions And Motions
1-6A-13: Committees, Boards And Commissions Established
1-6A-14: Rights Of Public
1-6A-15: Suspension Of Rules
1-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the rules or procedure for city council is to instill and
maintain public confidence in city government by:
   A.   Promoting the orderly and expeditious process of conducting city
business;
   B.   Protecting the rights of each individual by encouraging public comment
and giving every proposition under consideration free and full debate; and
   C.   Carrying out the will of a majority of the city council while
preserving the rights of all council members. (2007 Code § 2-31)
1-6A-2: GENERAL RULES:
   A.   Meetings: All meetings of the city council shall be called and
conducted in accordance with the code of Iowa.
   B.   Quorum: Four (4) members of the city council shall constitute a quorum
and be necessary for the transaction of business. If a quorum is not present,
those in attendance will be named and they shall adjourn to a later time. The
city council may delay the start of a meeting for a maximum of fifteen (15)
minutes if agreed upon by those present.
   C.   Compelling Attendance: The city council may adjourn from day to day to
compel the attendance of absent members.
   D.   Minutes Of Proceedings: An account of all proceedings of the city
council shall be kept by the city clerk and shall be entered in a book
constituting the official record of the city council.
   E.   Right Of Floor: Any member desiring to speak shall be recognized by the
presiding officer and shall confine said member's remarks to the subject under
consideration or to be considered.
   F.   City Manager: The city manager shall attend all meetings of the city
council unless excused and shall have charge of the council meeting room. The
city manager may make recommendations to the city council and upon recognition
by the presiding officer shall have the right to take part in any discussions
of the city council.
   G.   City Attorney: The city attorney shall attend all meetings of the city
council unless excused and shall, upon request by the city council, give an
opinion, either written or oral, on questions of law. The city attorney shall
act as the city council's parliamentarian.
   H.   City Clerk: The city clerk shall attend all meetings of the city
council unless excused and shall keep the official minutes and perform such
other duties as may be requested by the city council.
   I.   Rules Of Order: "Robert's Rules Of Order Revised" shall govern the
proceedings of the city council in all cases, unless they are in conflict with
these rules or the code of Iowa. (2007 Code § 2-32)
1-6A-3: TYPES OF MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the Council must be held on the
first and third Mondays of each month. However, when the first or third Monday
falls upon any of the following City holidays, such meeting must be held on the
next succeeding day:
      New Year's Day
      Martin Luther King's Birthday
      Memorial Day
      Independence Day
      Labor Day
      Veterans Day
      Thanksgiving Day
      Day after Thanksgiving
      Christmas Eve
      Christmas Day
      New Year's Eve
   Unless otherwise indicated in the notice of meeting, regular meetings will
commence at six-thirty (6:30) P.M.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by a
majority of the members of the City Council. The call for a special meeting
shall be filed with the City Clerk in written form, except that announcement of
a special meeting during any regular meeting shall be sufficient notice of such
special meeting. The call for a special meeting shall specify the day, the
hour, and the location of the special meeting and shall list the subject or
subjects to be considered.
   C.   Recessed Meetings: Any meeting of the City Council may be recessed to a
later date and time; provided, that no recess shall be for a longer period than
until the next regular meeting.
   D.   Work Sessions: The City Council may meet informally in work sessions
(open to the public), at the call of the Mayor or of any four (4) members of
the City Council, to review forthcoming programs of the City, receive progress
reports on current programs or projects, or receive other similar information
from the City Manager.
   E.   Rescheduling Of Regular Meetings: A regular meeting of the Council may
be rescheduled by the Mayor or by a majority of the members of the City
Council. The request to reschedule a regular meeting may be filed in written
form with the City Clerk and approved during any regular meeting of the Council
a minimum of thirty (30) days in advance of the rescheduled meeting. The public
notice for a rescheduled regular meeting shall specify the time, date, and
place of the meeting, and tentative agenda for the meeting. (Ord. 17-17, 5-1-
2017; amd. Ord. 8-20, 2-17-2020)
1-6A-4: RECORDS:
   A.   Preparation: Immediately after each regular or special meeting of the
Council, the City Clerk shall prepare a complete record of the proceedings of
such meeting, which shall contain in full the motions and resolutions offered
or adopted, and all other action taken, or proceedings had at such meeting.
   B.   Printing: The City Clerk shall cause a condensed record of such
proceedings to be published in the official papers. The City Clerk shall also
have the complete record printed on good paper with pages of uniform size
suitable for binding in permanent form, which pages shall be numbered
consecutively.
   C.   Monthly Record: Before the first meeting in each month, the City Clerk
shall have printed proceedings of all meetings held during the previous month,
bound together in pamphlet form, and shall furnish copies of the same to the
Mayor and members of the Council and to such other officers as the Council may
direct. At the first regular meeting in each month, the record of the
proceedings included in such pamphlet shall be read, unless such reading shall
be dispensed with by the Council. If objection to any part of the record is
raised by a member of the Council, the same, if found to be incorrect, shall be
corrected, and when the record is correct, the same shall, by motion, be
approved. When the record has been so approved, the printed record of each
meeting contained in said pamphlet shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the City Clerk, and shall then become the official record of the proceedings
contained therein.
   D.   Permanent Binding: After the last day of December of each year, the
City Clerk shall have the printed pamphlets, which constitute the official
record for the preceding twelve (12) months, bound together in book form,
together with a complete index by subjects of the contents thereof, and when so
bound said book shall constitute the permanent official record for the year,
and the same shall be filed and kept in the Office of the City Clerk. (2007
Code § 2-33.10)
1-6A-5: ATTENDANCE OF MEDIA AT COUNCIL MEETINGS:
All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the media, freely subject to
recording by radio, television and photographic services at any time; provided,
that such arrangements do not interfere with the orderly conduct of the
meetings. (2007 Code § 2-34)
1-6A-6: PRESIDING OFFICER:
   A.   Presiding Officer: The Mayor shall preside as the presiding officer at
all meetings of the City Council. In the absence of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro
Tem shall preside. In the absence of both the Mayor and the Mayor Pro Tem, the
City Council shall elect a presiding officer.
      1.   The Mayor Pro Tem shall sit to the immediate right of the Mayor.
      2.   While the Mayor is putting the question, no member shall walk across
or out of the council room.
      3.   While a member is speaking, no member shall entertain private
discourse.
   B.   Call To Order: The meetings of the city council shall be called to
order by the mayor or, in the mayor's absence, by the mayor pro tem. In the
absence of both the mayor and the mayor pro tem, the meeting shall be called to
order by the city clerk for the election of a temporary presiding officer.
   C.   Preservation Of Order: The presiding officer shall preserve order and
decorum, prevent attacks on personalities or the impugning of members' motives,
and confine members in debate to the question under discussion.
   D.   Points Of Order: The presiding officer shall determine all points of
order, subject to the right of any member to appeal to the city council. If any
appeal is taken, the question shall be, "Shall the decision of the presiding
officer be sustained"?
   E.   Motion To Reconsider: A motion to reconsider shall not be entertained
except at the same city council meeting, or at the next succeeding regular city
council meeting after the meeting on which the vote was taken and shall be made
only by a member who voted with the prevailing side. A motion to reconsider
cannot be made by a member who abstained on the vote which is sought to be
reconsidered.
   F.   Substitution For Presiding Officer: The mayor may call upon the mayor
pro tem or in the absence of the mayor pro tem any other member to temporarily
chair the city council meeting in order to take part in debate, to make a
motion, or to cover a temporary absence. Such substitution shall not continue
beyond adjournment. (2007 Code § 2-35)
1-6A-7: MOTIONS:
   A.   Defined: A "motion" is a proposal that the city council take formal
action.
   B.   Classification Of Motions:
      1.   Main Motions: A "main motion" is one which independently presents an
idea for consideration. Only one main motion can be considered at a given time,
and such a motion, when introduced, excludes all other main motions until it
has been voted upon or disposed of otherwise.
      2.   Subsidiary Motions: A "subsidiary motion" is one growing out of and
applied to another motion already under consideration. Their existence as
motions depend entirely upon the principal motion to which they are
subordinate. Such motions must be voted upon before voting upon the motion to
which they apply.
      3.   Privileged Motions: A "privileged motion" is one which is so vital
in character that it takes precedence over all other motions. Such motions have
no connection with the motion under consideration. A privileged motion sets
aside temporarily any business under consideration.
      4.   Incidental Motions: An "incidental motion" is one growing out of
another motion already under consideration. Such a motion must be disposed of
before the main motion or other business under consideration.
   C.   Progress Of Motions:
      1.   A council member addresses the presiding officer. The presiding
officer should be addressed by title.
      2.   The council member is recognized by the presiding officer. The
presiding officer recognizes the council member by name or by a nod. Having
received formal recognition from the presiding officer, the council member is
said to "have the floor" and is the only member entitled to present or discuss
a motion.
      3.   The council member proposes a motion. A motion is always introduced
in the form, "I move that" followed by a statement of the proposal. Aside from
very brief explanatory remarks, it is not permissible to discuss the merits of
a motion prior to, or immediately following, the formal proposal of the motion.
All discussion must wait until the presiding officer has stated the motion and
has asked for discussion.
      4.   Another council member seconds the motion. Another council member,
without addressing the presiding officer, may say, "I second the motion".
Seconding the motion is merely an indication that the council member seconding
it wishes the matter to come to the city council for consideration. If no one
seconds the motion, the presiding officer may ask, "Is there a second to the
motion?" If there is none, the presiding officer may declare, "The motion is
lost for want of a second".
      5.   The presiding officer states the motion to the city council when a
motion has been properly proposed and seconded, the presiding officer repeats
the motion to the city council. After the motion has been formally stated to
the city council, the motion may be spoken of as "a question", "a proposition",
or "a measure".
      6.   The city council discusses or debates the motion. After the motion
has been formally stated by the presiding officer, any council member has a
right to discuss the issue. Council members must obtain the floor in the same
manner as when presenting a motion. Normally the first person who asks
recognition is entitled to speak. All discussion must be confined to the
question under consideration.
The presiding officer should always show preference to the proposer of the
motion.
A council member who has not spoken before has claim over a council member who
has already discussed the question, or who has proposed another motion.
If the presiding officer knows the opinions of the various council members
regarding the measure, the presiding officer should alternate between those
favoring the measures and those in opposition to the measure.
The presiding officer should recognize a council member who seldom speaks in
preference of a council member who frequently speaks.
      7.   The presiding officer takes the vote on the motion. When all council
members who desire to discuss the question have done so, the presiding officer
"puts the motion to a vote". Before taking the vote, the presiding officer may
inquire, "Is there any further discussion?" or "Are you ready for the
question?" If no council member responds, the presiding officer presumes
discussion is closed. The presiding officer will proceed to instruct the city
clerk to take a roll call vote.
      8.   The presiding officer announces the result of the vote. The
presiding officer formally announces the result of the vote, saying, "The
motion is carried" or "The motion is lost". As soon as the vote has been
announced, another motion is in order. (2007 Code § 2-36)
1-6A-8: AMENDMENTS TO MOTIONS:
Any amendment to a motion changes a motion by adding to it, taking from it, or
by altering it in some other way. The purpose of the motion to amend is to
modify a motion that has already been presented in such a manner that it will
be more satisfactory to the council members. An amendment to a motion may be
hostile, but it must be germane. By "germane" it is meant having direct bearing
upon the subject matter of the motion; that is, relevant, or relating to it.
   A.   Methods Of Amending Motions:
      1.   By Addition Or Insertion: To add something to the motion which it
did not contain.
      2.   By Eliminating Or By Striking Out: To subtract or eliminate
something from a motion that was originally a part of the motion.
      3.   By Substitution: This method is a combination of the first two (2)
methods, since in amending by substitution something is stricken out and
something inserted in its place. The substitution may consist of a word, a
phrase, a clause, or an entirely new motion.
   B.   Progress Of Amendments:
      1.   Types Of Amendments:
         a.   Amendments of the first rank. This is an amendment to the motion.
         b.   Amendments of the second rank. This is an amendment to the
amendment. This type of amendment must modify and relate directly to the
amendment and not to the main motion. Otherwise, it is out of order.
It is not in order to propose more than one amendment of each rank at one time.
If a council member wishes to amend two (2) separate and related parts of a
motion, this must be done by two (2) amendments of the second rank, and one
must be voted upon before the other is proposed. It is permissible to have a
motion, one amendment to the motion (amendment of the first rank), and one
amendment to the amendment (amendment of the second rank) before the city
council at once. Until the amendment of the second rank has been voted upon, no
other amendment of the second rank is in order. Until the amendment of the
first rank is voted upon, no other amendment of the first rank can be proposed.
      2.   Order Of Voting:
         a.   Amendments are voted upon in inverse order; that is, the
amendment of the second rank is disposed of first.
         b.   Discussion is held and the vote taken upon the amendment to the
amendment.
         c.   Discussion is held and the vote taken upon the amendment to the
motion.
         d.   When the vote on the amendments have been taken, discussion upon
the original or the main motion as amended is held and when completed, a vote
is taken upon the original or main motion as amended. (2007 Code § 2-37)
1-6A-9:CHART OF PREFERENCE OF MOTIONS:
   CHART OF PREFERENCE OF MOTIONS
           May Interrupt A Requires A Debatable Vote Required Motions That
           Speaker         Second                             May Apply
Privileged                                                 
motions:
                                                May       Requires           Vote     Motions
                                                Interrupt A Second Debatable Required That
                                                A Speaker                             May Apply
Privileged motions:                                                                
1.  To fix time at which to adjourn             No        Yes      Limited   Majority Amend,
                                                                                      reconsider
2.  To adjourn (unqualified)                    No        Yes      No        Majority None
3.  To take a recess                            No        Yes      Limited   Majority Amend
4.  To rise to a question of privilege          Yes       No       No        Chair    All
                                                                             rules
5.  To call for the orders of the day           Yes       No       No        None     None
Subsidiary motions:                                                                
6.  To lay on, or take from, the table          No        Yes      No        Majority None
7.  To call for the previous question           No        Yes      No        2/3      Reconsider
8.  To limit, or extend limits, of debate       No        Yes      Limited   2/3      Amend,
                                                                                      reconsider
                                                                                      Amend,
9.  To postpone definitely                      No        Yes      Limited   Majority reconsider,
                                                                                      previous
                                                                                      question
                                                                                      Amend,
10. To refer to a committee                     No        Yes      Limited   Majority reconsider,
                                                                                      previous
                                                                                      question
                                                                                      Amend,
11. Amend                                       No        Yes      Yes       Majority reconsider,
                                                                                      previous
                                                                                      question
                                                                                      Limit
                                                                                      debate,
12. To postpone indefinitely                    No        Yes      Yes       Majority previous
                                                                                      question,
                                                                                      reconsider
Main motions:                                                                      
13. a.   General main motions                No        Yes      Yes       Majority All
   b.   Specific main notions:                                                 
      To take from the table                No        Yes      No        Majority None
                                                                                      Limited
                                                                                      debate,
      To reconsider                         Yes       Yes      Yes       Majority previous
                                                                                      question,
                                                                                      table
                                                                             None     Postpone
      To reconsider and have entered on the Yes       Yes      No        until    definitely,
    minutes                                                                  called   none
                                                                             for
      To rescind                            No        Yes      Yes       2/3      All
      To expunge                            No        Yes      Yes       2/3      All
      To adopt a resolution                 No        Yes      Yes       Majority All
      To adjourn (qualified)                No        Yes      Limited   Majority Amend,
                                                                                      reconsider
                                                                             General
                                                                             -
      To create orders of the day (spec.)   No        Yes      Yes       majority All
                                                                             Special
                                                                             - 2/3
                                                                                      Amend,
                                                                                      reconsider
      To amend (constitution, etc.)         No        Yes      Yes       Majority previous
                                                                                      question,
                                                                                      limited
                                                                                      debate
Incidental motions:                                                                
   To suspend rules                            No        Yes      No        2/3      None
   To withdraw a motion                        No        No       No        Majority Reconsider
   To read papers                              No        Yes      No        Majority All
   To object to consideration                  Yes       No       No        2/3      All
                                                                             Chair
   To rise to a point of order                 Yes       No       No        rules or None
                                                                             majority
   To rise to parliamentary inquiry            Yes       No       No        None     None
   To appeal from decision of chair            Yes       Yes      Limited   Majority All except
                                                                                      amend
   To call for division of house               Yes       No       No        Majority All
   To call for division of question            No        Yes      No        Majority All
 
(2007 Code § 2-38)
1-6A-10: MOTIONS FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES:
Kind Of Motion Object Effect
Kind Of Motion            Object                     Effect
To lay on the table       Clear floor for more       Delays action
                          urgent business
To call for previous      Secure immediate vote on   Ends debate
question                  pending question
To limit or extend time   Provide more or less time  Shortens or lengthens
for debate                for discussion             discussion period
To postpone definitely    Often gives more time for
(to a certain time)       informal discussion and    Delays action
                          for securing followers
To commit or refer        To enable more careful     Delays action
                          consideration to be given
To amend                  To improve the motion      To change the original
                                                     motion
To postpone indefinitely  To prevent a vote on the   To suppress the question
                          question
                          To call attention to       Keeps group functioning
To raise a point of order violation of rules         according to parliamentary
                                                     procedures
To appeal from the        To determine the attitude  Secures ruling of the
decision of the chair     of the group on the ruling group rather than by the
                          made by the chair          chair
                          To permit action not       Secure action which would
To suspend the rules      possible under the rules   otherwise be prevented by
                                                     the rules
To object to the          Prevent wasting time on
consideration of a        unimportant business       Suppress the motion
question
To divide the question    Secure more careful        Secures action by parts
                          consideration of parts
To nominate               Suggest names for office   Places before the group
                                                     names for consideration
To make a request growing To secure information or
out of pending business   ask to be excused from a   Provide information
                          duty
To fix the time at which  To have legal continuation Sets definite continuation
to adjourn                of the meeting             time
To adjourn                End the meeting            Adjourns the meeting
To take a recess          To secure an intermission  Delays action
To raise a question of    To correct undesirable     Corrects undesirable
privilege                 conditions                 condition
To call for the order of  To secure adherence to     Same as object
the day                   order of business
To take from the table    Continue the consideration Continue consideration of
                          of the question            question
To reconsider (only a                                Secures further
member of the prevailing  To reconsider the question consideration and another
side may make this                                   vote on the question
motion)
To reconsider and have
entered on the minutes    To reconsider the question Secures further
(only a member of the     at the next meeting        consideration and another
prevailing side may make                             vote on the question
this motion)
To rescind                Repeal action previously   Same as object
                          taken
To ratify                 Approves previous action   Same as object
                          taken
 
(2007 Code § 2-39)
1-6A-11: ORDER OF BUSINESS AND AGENDA:
   A.   Agenda: The order of business of each regular meeting shall be as
contained in the agenda prepared by the city clerk. The agenda shall be a
listing by topic of subjects to be considered by the city council.
   B.   Order Of Business: The general rule as to the order of business in
regular meetings shall be as follows:
      1.   Reading of the call.
      2.   Roll call.
      3.   Proclamations.
      4.   Consent items; business licenses.
      5.   Items to be set for public hearing.
      6.   Appointments to boards and commissions.
      7.   Public hearings.
      8.   Public input.
      9.   Action items.
      10.   Adjournment. (Ord. 20-16, 6-6-2016)
1-6A-12: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS:
   A.   Form: Ordinances and resolutions shall be presented to the city council
only in printed, electronic or typewritten form.
   B.   Ordinances; Confined To One Subject; Exceptions: No ordinance except an
appropriation ordinance, an ordinance adopting or embodying an administrative
or governmental code, or an ordinance adopting a code or ordinance, shall
relate to more than one subject which shall be clearly stated in its title.
   C.   Review By City Manager And City Attorney: All ordinances and
resolutions shall be reviewed by the city manager and approved by the city
attorney as necessary.
   D.   Reading By Title Only: Upon being introduced, each proposed ordinance
or resolution shall be read by title only, unless a member of the city council
requests a full reading of the ordinance or resolution.
   E.   Recordings Of Votes: The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage
of all ordinances, resolutions or motions and entered upon the minutes of the
city council.
   F.   Method Of Voting: When any vote is called, each council member shall
respond "yes (aye)", "no (nay)", or "abstain". An abstention vote shall be
considered as a vote with the prevailing side.
   G.   Tie Vote: In the event of a tie in votes on any motion, the motion
shall be considered lost. A council member may then direct to place the item on
the next agenda.
   H.   Numbering Ordinances And Resolutions: Upon passage, a number shall be
assigned to each ordinance or resolution by the city clerk.
   I.   Ordinance Passage Procedure: When passed by the city council, an
ordinance shall be signed by the presiding officer, attested to by the city
clerk, published in the designated newspaper and thereafter preserved in the
office of the city clerk. (2007 Code § 2-41)
1-6A-13: COMMITTEES, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Citizen Committees, Boards And Commissions: The city council may
establish committees, boards, and commissions to assist in the conduct of the
operation of the city government with such duties and powers as the city
council may specify not inconsistent with this code or the laws of the state.
   B.   Membership And Selections: Membership and selection of members of
boards and commissions shall be as specified in this code or the code of Iowa.
Any committee, board, or commission so established shall cease to exist upon
the accomplishment of the special purpose for which it was created, or when
abolished by a majority vote of the city council or as specified in the code of
Iowa.
   C.   Nominations: A nomination is the formal presentation to the city
council of the name of the candidate for a position to be filled. Applications
for vacancies shall be received by the city clerk and presented to the city
council for consideration at a regular or special council meeting. The
nominations procedure shall be as follows:
      1.   Nominations are in order as soon as the presiding officer calls for
them.
      2.   Nominations do not require a second.
      3.   As a nomination is made, the presiding officer shall repeat the
name.
      4.   No council member may nominate more than one candidate for each
position.
      5.   If there are no further nominations, the presiding officer may
declare the nominations closed.
      6.   A motion to reopen nominations requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote.
      7.   Prior to voting but following the formal closing of nominations,
nominations may be reopened by a motion which requires only a majority to
carry.
      8.   After the nominations are closed, the city council proceeds to vote
upon the names by a roll call vote. If a candidate receives a majority vote of
the city council, that candidate is appointed.
      9.   If no candidate receives a majority vote of the city council, a
second roll call vote is then taken on those candidates voted upon the first
time.
      10.   If no candidate is elected on the second roll call vote, a motion
that only the two (2) highest candidates on the previous roll call vote be
considered on the third roll call vote is in order.
   D.   Oath Of Office: Each person, upon appointment or reappointment to a
board or commission, shall execute an oath of office at the city clerk's office
within ten (10) days of appointment or reappointment.
   E.   Records: The city clerk shall maintain all applications, oaths of
office, and appointment records of all members of boards and commissions.
Applications of unsuccessful candidates for appointment to boards and
commissions shall be maintained by the city clerk for one year after which time
such application forms may be destroyed.
   F.   Removal Of Members Of Boards And Commissions: The city council may
remove any member of any board or commission which it has established.
   G.   Residency Requirement: No person shall be appointed or reappointed to a
committee, board or commission or ad hoc committee created by such committee,
board or commission unless such person is, at the time of such appointment or
reappointment, a resident of the city, and any person so appointed or
reappointed shall maintain such residency during the term of the appointment or
reappointment. Any member of a committee, board or commission or ad hoc
committee created by such committee, board or commission who fails to maintain
such residency shall be deemed removed as of the date of such change of
residency, any provision in this code to the contrary notwithstanding.
   H.   City Employees Not Eligible: City employees, other than the city
manager and the assistant city manager, are not eligible for appointment to any
committee, board or commission. A committee, board or commission member
employed by the city shall be deemed removed from such office as of the date of
employment by the city.
   I.   Attendance Report: The chairperson of each committee, board or
commission shall report to the city council any member of a committee, board or
commission who failed to attend more than one-third (1/3) of the meetings of
such committee, board or commission for the previous twelve (12) month period.
(2007 Code § 2-42)
1-6A-14: RIGHTS OF PUBLIC:
   A.   Addressing City Council: No person may address the city council by oral
communication without the permission of the presiding officer.
   B.   Manner Of Addressing City Council; Time Limit: Each person addressing
the city council shall approach the microphone, shall give such person's name
and address and, if representing an organization or another person, shall so
state, in an audible tone of voice for the record, and, unless further time is
granted by the presiding officer, shall limit such person's address to five (5)
minutes. All remarks shall be addressed to the city council as a body, not to
any city officer or employee. No person, other than members of the city council
and the person having the floor, shall be permitted to enter into any
discussion, either directly or through the members of the city council. No
questions shall be asked of individual council members nor of any city officer
or employee, except through the presiding officer.
   C.   Personal And Slanderous Remarks: Any person making personal,
impertinent or slanderous remarks, or who shall become boisterous, while
addressing the city council may be requested to leave the meeting and may be by
the presiding officer barred from further audience before the city council.
   D.   Written Communications: Any person or the person's authorized
representatives, may address the city council by written communication in
regard to any matter concerning the city's business or over which the city
council has control at any time by addressing such written communication to the
city clerk. All such written communications must be received by the city clerk
by twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of the Wednesday immediately preceding the
regular council meeting in order that such material may be placed on the agenda
for such meeting.
   E.   Public Input Agenda: Members of the public may address the city council
on any action item on the agenda or on any matter not on the agenda concerning
city business or over which the city council has control.
Unless extended by the presiding officer, public input will be limited to
thirty (30) minutes. (Ord. 20-16, 6-6-2016)
1-6A-15: SUSPENSION OF RULES:
Any provision of these rules not otherwise governed by this code or the code of
Iowa may be temporarily suspended by a vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the
council members present. (2007 Code § 2-44)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Bonds Of Officers And Employees
1-7-2: Deposits Of City Funds
1-7-3: Transfer Of Records And Property To Successor
1-7-4: City Manager
1-7-5: City Clerk And Assistant City Clerk
1-7-6: City Attorney
1-7-7: City Treasurer
1-7-8: Elimination Of State Of Iowa Residency Requirement
1-7-1: BONDS OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Certain Officers: The following officers of the city shall give
official bonds in the following penal sums, the premium being paid by the city,
in the form set forth in section 64.2 of the code of Iowa:
 
City Manager             $1,000,000.00
Chief Financial Officer  1,000,000.00
City Treasurer           1,000,000.00
 
   B.   Other Officers And Employees: All other officers and employees of the
city shall be covered by an official bond in the penal sum in the amount of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) each. (2007 Code § 2-69; amd. Ord. 3-20, 1-21-
2020; Ord. 6-25, 2-17-2025)
1-7-2: DEPOSITS OF CITY FUNDS:
Each department, division and other agency of the city shall deposit all funds
collected on behalf of the city timely with the city treasurer together with an
accounting indicating the sources thereof and obtain a receipt from the city
treasurer for the funds, or deposit the funds directly in city bank accounts as
directed by the city treasurer and provide the city treasurer a duplicate
deposit receipt together with an accounting indicating the sources of funds.
(2007 Code § 2-72; amd. Ord. 3-20, 1-21-2020)
1-7-3: TRANSFER OF RECORDS AND PROPERTY TO SUCCESSOR:
Each officer shall transfer to said officer's successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property, in said officer's custody and relating
to said officer's office. (2007 Code § 2-73)
1-7-4: CITY MANAGER:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications; Oath; Bond:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the city council to appoint some competent
person manager of the city, who shall be and act as the administrative head
thereof, under the direction and supervision of the city council, and shall
hold office at its pleasure.
      2.   The council, in appointing a city manager, need not be influenced by
the residence or nonresidence of the person selected, having regard for the
person's qualifications and fitness for the position.
      3.   During the absence of the city manager by leave of the city council
through sickness or other unavoidable causes, the city council may designate
some properly qualified person to perform and execute the duties of the city
manager's office.
      4.   Before entering upon the city manager's duties, the city manager
shall take an oath that the city manager will support the constitution of the
United States, the constitution of the state, and without fear or favor, to the
best of the city manager's ability, faithfully and honestly perform the duties
of the city manager's office.
      5.   The manager shall execute a bond with a reliable surety company as
surety thereon, to be paid for by the city, in such sum as the city council
may, by resolution, determine, which bond shall be conditioned for the faithful
performance of the manager's duties and shall be in favor of the city. (2007
Code § 2-103)
   B.   Office: The city manager shall have an office at the city hall, which
office shall be open on all days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, for
the transaction of business for the city. (2007 Code § 2-104)
1-7-5: CITY CLERK AND ASSISTANT CITY CLERK:
   A.   City Clerk:
      1.   There is hereby established the office of the city clerk.
      2.   The city council shall appoint a city clerk.
   B.   Assistant City Clerk:
      1.   The city clerk shall appoint an assistant city clerk.
      2.   The assistant city clerk shall be subject to the direction of the
city clerk and, in the absence or inability of the city clerk, to perform the
duties of the office, the assistant city clerk shall have the full power and
authority to perform all the duties required of the office of the city clerk.
(2007 Code § 2-114)
1-7-6: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Office Established; General Powers And Duties:
      1.   There is hereby created and established the office of the city
attorney.
      2.   The city council shall appoint a city attorney, who shall be the
chief legal officer and whose duties shall be as provided in this section and
by the laws of the state. (2007 Code § 2-121)
   B.   Powers And Duties Specified: The city attorney, in addition to all of
the powers and duties conferred by the laws of the state upon a city attorney,
shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   Attend every regular meeting of the city council and attend those
special meetings of the city council at which the city attorney shall be
required to be present.
      2.   Upon request of the city council, formulate drafts for contracts,
forms and other writings which may be required for use of the city.
      3.   Keep records of official opinions and actions involving the city.
      4.   Upon request, give an opinion in writing upon all questions of law
relating to municipal matters submitted by the city council, the mayor, members
of the city council individually, municipal boards or the city manager.
      5.   Prepare those ordinances that the city council may direct to be
prepared.
      6.   Be responsible for the overall supervision of the office of the city
attorney and, with the approval of the city council, appoint such assistant
city attorneys as may be necessary to the performance of the city attorney's
duties. (2007 Code § 2-122)
1-7-7: CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Duties Generally: The duties of the city treasurer shall be as provided
in this section. (2007 Code § 2-131)
   B.   Fund Records Kept Separate: The city treasurer shall keep records of
each fund separate. (2007 Code § 2-132)
   C.   Receipt Records: The city treasurer shall keep an accurate record of
all money or securities received by the city treasurer on behalf of the
municipality and specify date, from whom, and for what purpose received. (2007
Code § 2-133)
   D.   Preparation Of Receipts: The city treasurer shall prepare receipts for
all funds received. The city treasurer shall retain a receipt copy and provide
each department a receipt copy. (2007 Code § 2-134)
   E.   Account Of Disbursements: The city treasurer shall keep an accurate
account of all disbursements, money or property, specifying date, to whom, and
from what fund paid. (2007 Code § 2-135)
   F.   Special Assessments Accounts: The city treasurer shall keep a separate
account of all money received by the city treasurer from special assessments.
(2007 Code § 2-136)
   G.   Disposition Of Receipts: The city treasurer shall, immediately upon
receipt of monies to be held in the city treasurer's custody and belonging to
the city, deposit the same in banks selected by the city council in amounts not
exceeding monetary limits authorized by the city council. In the case of
deposited checks returned for nonsufficient funds, the city treasurer shall
adjust the recorded deposit and attempt to collect the returned check. The city
treasurer may also assess a surcharge not to exceed the amount allowed by law
for processing checks returned for nonsufficient funds and against the party
who submitted the nonsufficient funds check. The returned check surcharge shall
be added to the outstanding bill of the party who submitted the nonsufficient
funds check. (2007 Code § 2-137)
   H.   Certification Of Delinquent Utility Billing Charges: Pursuant to Iowa
Code section 384.84, the city treasurer will prepare, at least quarterly, an
assessment schedule listing all delinquent utility billing charges and late
payment charges which accrued in the prior month or since the last assessment
schedule was prepared, and the city treasurer is hereby delegated the
authority, on behalf of the city, to certify and file each such assessment
schedule with the county treasurer. (Ord. 52-12, 9-17-2012; amd. Ord. 3-20, 1-
21-2020)
1-7-8: ELIMINATION OF STATE OF IOWA RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT:
   A.   The purpose of this section is to eliminate the state of Iowa residency
requirement for city employees classified as holding a civil service position
under state law.
   B.   Iowa Code Chapter 400 identifies certain employees of a city to be
covered by the state’s civil service law. The provisions of Iowa Code Chapter
400 set out procedures that need to be followed regarding the hiring,
promoting, disciplining, and termination of these covered civil service
employees. One of the requirements that currently exists is that these covered
civil service employees must either be or become a citizen of the state of Iowa
within a certain period of time.
   C.   During the legislative session of 2016 House File 2267 was passed into
law effective July 1, 2016. A provision of this bill allows cities to pass an
ordinance to eliminate the state of Iowa residency requirement for covered
civil service employees. The bill further provides that a city may establish
time and distance requirements of its covered civil service employees.
   D.   The city manager shall assess the needs and demands of the organization
and establish a time and distance policy for civil service employees. (Ord. 11-
20, 3-2-2020)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS, PRECINCTS AND WARDS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Definitions And Rules Of Construction
1-8-2: Correction Of Errors
1-8-3: City Divided Into Twenty Precincts
1-8-4: Precinct 1
1-8-5: Precinct 2
1-8-6: Precinct 3
1-8-7: Precinct 4
1-8-8: Precinct 5
1-8-9: Precinct 6
1-8-10: Precinct 7
1-8-11: Precinct 8
1-8-12: Precinct 9
1-8-13: Precinct 10
1-8-14: Precinct 11
1-8-15: Precinct 12
1-8-16: Precinct 13
1-8-17: Precinct 14
1-8-18: Precinct 15
1-8-19: Precinct 16
1-8-20: Precinct 17
1-8-21: Precinct 18
1-8-22: Precinct 19
1-8-23: Precinct 20
1-8-24: City Divided Into Four Wards
1-8-25: Ward 1
1-8-26: Ward 2
1-8-27: Ward 3
1-8-28: Ward 4
1-8-1: DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
For the purposes of this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions and rules of construction shall be applied.
Points of the compass are approximate unless otherwise stated.
All names, boundaries, lines, features and fixtures are to be construed as they
existed on the effective date of this chapter.
ANNEXED TERRITORY: Territory annexed to the city after the effective date of
this chapter.
CITY: Includes all territory within the corporate limits of the city of Dubuque
and all annexed territories.
COMMISSIONER OF ELECTIONS: The county auditor of Dubuque County.
CORPORATE LIMITS: The corporate limits of the city on the effective date of
this chapter.
STREET (Or Similar Language): The centerline of the right of way and a straight
extension of that centerline. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011)
1-8-2: CORRECTION OF ERRORS:
   A.   Correction Of Errors: If this chapter fails to place any part of the
city within a precinct or ward established by this chapter, the commissioner of
elections shall assign the omitted area to an adjacent precinct or ward within
the same legislative district. If this chapter places any part of the city in
more than one precinct or ward established by this chapter, the commissioner of
elections shall assign that territory to an adjacent precinct or ward within
the proper legislative district. The commissioner of elections may also correct
obvious clerical errors in this chapter.
   B.   Annexation Of Territory: When territory is annexed to the city, the
city council may attach all or any part of the annexed territory to any
established precinct or precincts, which are contiguous to the annexed
territory; however, this subsection shall not prohibit establishment of one or
more new precincts in the annexed territory. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011)
1-8-3: CITY DIVIDED INTO TWENTY PRECINCTS:
The city is hereby divided into twenty (20) precincts as described in this
chapter. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011)
1-8-4: PRECINCT 1:
The 1st Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque and
Dubuque County bounded by a line beginning at the point where Fremont Avenue
intersects North Cascade Road, thence southwesterly along North Cascade Road
until it intersects the boundary of the city of Dubuque, thence southwesterly
along the boundary of the city of Dubuque until it intersects the boundary of
Table Mound Township, thence westerly along the boundary of Table Mound
Township until it intersects with the boundary of the city of Dubuque, thence
westerly and southerly along the boundary of the city of Dubuque until it
intersects with the centerline of US Highway 61, thence northerly and easterly
along the boundary of the city of Dubuque until it intersects the boundary of
Mosalem Township, thence northerly along the boundary of Mosalem Township until
it intersects with the boundary of the city of Dubuque thence westerly along
the boundary of the city of Dubuque until it intersects US Highway 151/61,
thence northerly along Highway 151/61 until it intersects the Chicago Central
and Pacific Railroad centerline, thence westerly along the Chicago Central and
Pacific Railroad centerline until it intersects Fremont Avenue, thence
southwesterly along Fremont Avenue to the point of origin at the intersection
of Fremont Avenue and North Cascade Road. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-
21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-5: PRECINCT 2:
The 2nd Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded by
a line beginning at the point where South Grandview Avenue intersects Southern
Avenue, thence southerly along Southern Avenue until it intersects Rockdale
Road, thence southwesterly along Rockdale Road until it intersects the Chicago
Central and Pacific Railroad centerline, thence northerly along the Chicago
Central and Pacific Railroad centerline until it intersects Fremont Avenue,
thence southerly and westerly along Fremont Avenue until it intersects North
Cascade Road, thence westerly along North Cascade Road until it intersects the
boundary of the city of Dubuque, thence northerly and westerly along the
boundary of the city of Dubuque until it intersects the boundary of Census
Block 3014, Tract 101.04, thence northerly along the boundary of Census Block
3014, Tract 101.04 until it intersects Dodge Street, thence easterly along
Dodge Street until it intersects John F. Kennedy Road, thence northerly along
John F. Kennedy Road until it intersects University Avenue, thence easterly
along University Avenue until it intersects University Avenue Extension, thence
southerly along University Avenue Extension until it intersects Dodge Street,
thence easterly along Dodge Street until it intersects South Grandview Avenue,
thence southerly along South Grandview Avenue to the point of origin at the
intersection of South Grandview Avenue and Southern Avenue. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-
2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-6: PRECINCT 3:
The 3rd Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded by
a line beginning at the point where the Northwest Arterial intersects Dodge
Street, thence easterly along Dodge Street until it intersects Wacker Drive,
thence northerly along Wacker Drive until it intersects John F. Kennedy Road,
thence northerly along John F. Kennedy Road until it intersects Hillcrest Road,
thence westerly along Hillcrest Road until it intersects Key Way Drive, thence
southerly along Key Way Drive until it intersects Census Block 1009, Tract
12.05, thence westerly along Census Block 1009, Tract 12.05 until it intersects
Census Block 1019, Tract 12.05, thence northwesterly along Census Block 1019,
Tract 12.05 until it intersects with Hillcrest Road, thence westerly along
Hillcrest Road until it intersects Rosemont Street, thence southerly along
Rosemont Street until it intersects Pennsylvania Avenue, thence westerly along
Pennsylvania Avenue until it intersects the Northwest Arterial, thence
southerly along the Northwest Arterial to the point of origin at the
intersection of the Northwest Arterial and Dodge Street. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-
2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-7: PRECINCT 4:
The 4th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque and
Dubuque County bounded by a line beginning at the point where the Northwest
Arterial intersects Dodge Street, thence westerly along Dodge Street until it
intersects, Census Block 3014, Tract 101.04, thence southerly along Census
Block 3014, Tract 101.04 until it intersects the boundary of the city of
Dubuque, thence easterly along the boundary of the city of Dubuque until it
intersects the intersection of the boundary of Dubuque Township and the
boundary of Table Mound Township, thence westerly along the boundary of Dubuque
Township until it intersects Census Block 3029, Tract 101.04, thence
southeasterly along the boundary of Census Block 3029, Tract 101.04 until it
intersects the boundary of the city of Dubuque, thence southerly and westerly
along the boundary of the city of Dubuque until it intersects the intersection
of US Highway 20, thence westerly along the boundary of the city of Dubuque
until it intersects the intersection of Seippel Road and Old Highway Road,
thence northerly along Seippel Road until it intersects the boundary of the
city of Dubuque, thence northerly along the boundary of city of Dubuque until
it intersects the intersection of Census Block 1001, Tract 11.03 and Asbury
Road, thence easterly along Asbury Road until its intersection with eastern
boundary of Block 1001, Tract 12.05, thence southerly along Block 1001, Tract
12.05 until it intersects Hillcrest Road, thence westerly along Hillcrest Road
until it intersects Rosemont Street, thence southerly along Rosemont Street
until it intersects Pennsylvania Avenue, thence westerly along Pennsylvania
Avenue until it intersects the Northwest Arterial, thence southerly along the
Northwest Arterial to the point of origin at the intersection of the Northwest
Arterial and Dodge Street. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-8: PRECINCT 5:
The 5th Precinct is described as that portion of city of Dubuque and Dubuque
County bounded by a line beginning at the point where John F. Kennedy Road
intersects Hillcrest Road, thence westerly along Hillcrest Road until it
intersects Key Way Drive, thence southerly along Key Way Drive until it
intersects Census Block 1009, Tract 12.05, thence westerly along Census Block
1009, Tract 12.05 until it intersects Census Block 1019, Tract 12.05, thence
northwesterly along Census Block 1019, Tract 12.05 until it intersects Census
Block 1001, Tract 12.05, thence along the easterly boundary of Census Block
1001, Tract 12.05 until it intersects Asbury Road, thence westerly along Asbury
Road to where it intersects the boundary of the city of Asbury, thence westerly
along the boundary of the city of Asbury until it intersects the intersection
of Hales Mill Road and Sagewood Drive, thence westerly along Sagewood Drive
until it intersects Hales Mill Road, thence northwesterly along Hales Mill Road
until it intersects Derby Grange Road, thence northeasterly along Derby Grange
Road until it intersects the intersection of Census Block 1038, Tract 101.04
and the boundary of the city of Dubuque, thence northerly, easterly, and
southerly along the boundary of the city of Dubuque until it intersects the
intersection of John Wesley Drive and Kennedy Road, thence southerly along
Kennedy Road/John F Kennedy Road until it intersects the point of origin at the
intersection of John F Kennedy Road and Hillcrest Road. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011;
amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-9: PRECINCT 6:
The 6th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque and
Dubuque County bounded by a line beginning at the point that Asbury Road
intersects John F. Kennedy Road, thence northerly along John F. Kennedy Road
until it intersects Barony Drive, thence easterly along Barony Drive until it
intersects Kingston Way, thence northerly along Kingston Way until it
intersects Forest Gate Road, thence northerly along Forest Gate Road until it
intersects Kennedy Road, thence easterly along Kennedy Road until it intersects
Rolling Hills, thence southwesterly along Rolling Hills until it intersects the
boundary of the city of Sageville, thence westerly along the boundary of the
city of Sageville until it intersects the boundary of the city of Dubuque,
thence southerly and easterly along the boundary of the city of Dubuque until
it intersects Central Avenue, thence southerly along Central Avenue until it
intersects Aquin Avenue, thence easterly along Aquin Avenue until it intersects
Jackson Street, thence southerly along Jackson Street until it intersects East
32nd Street, thence westerly along East 32nd Street/West 32nd Street until it
intersects Carter Road, thence southerly along Carter Road until it intersects
Kaufmann Avenue, thence westerly along Kaufmann Avenue until it intersects
Evergreen Drive, thence southerly along Evergreen Drive until it intersects
Asbury Road, thence westerly along Asbury Road to the point of origin at the
intersection of Asbury Road and John F. Kennedy Road. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011;
amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-10: PRECINCT 7:
The 7th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded by
a line beginning at the point that Wacker Drive and Dodge Street intersect,
thence northerly along Wacker Drive until it intersects John F. Kennedy Road,
thence northerly along John F. Kennedy Road until it intersects Asbury Road,
thence easterly along Asbury Road until it intersects Chaney Road, thence
southerly along Chaney Road until it intersects Saint Anne Drive, thence
westerly along Saint Anne Drive until it intersects Bristol Drive, thence
southerly along Bristol Drive until it intersects Pennsylvania Avenue, thence
easterly along Pennsylvania Avenue until it intersects Drexel Avenue, thence
southerly along Drexel Avenue until it intersects Van Buren Street, thence
westerly along Van Buren Street until it intersects Census Block 3015, Tract
12.01, thence southerly along Census Block 3015, Tract 12.01 until it
intersects University Avenue, thence westerly along University Avenue until it
intersects John F. Kennedy Road, thence southerly along John F. Kennedy Road
until it intersects Dodge Street, thence westerly along Dodge Street to the
point of origin at the intersection of Wacker Drive and Dodge Street. (Ord. 43-
11, 8-24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-11: PRECINCT 8:
The 8th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded by
a line beginning at the point that North Grandview Avenue intersects West 32nd
Street, thence westerly along West 32nd Street until it intersects Carter Road,
thence southerly along Carter Road until it intersects Kaufmann Avenue, thence
westerly along Kaufmann Avenue until it intersects Evergreen Drive, thence
southerly along Evergreen Drive until it intersects Asbury Road, thence
easterly along Asbury Road until it intersects Chaney Road, thence southerly
along Chaney Road until it intersects Saint Anne Drive, thence easterly along
Saint Anne Drive until it intersects Wilbricht Lane, thence easterly along
Wilbricht Lane until it intersects Asbury Road, thence southeasterly along
Asbury Road until it intersects Rosedale Avenue, thence easterly along Rosedale
Avenue until it intersects Avoca Street, thence northerly along extension of
Avoca Street until it intersects North Grandview Avenue, thence northerly along
North Grandview Avenue to the point of origin at the intersection of North
Grandview Avenue and West 32nd Street. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21,
12-6-2021)
1-8-12: PRECINCT 9:
The 9th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded by
a line beginning at the point that Hempstead Street intersects Kaufmann Avenue,
thence westerly along Kaufmann Avenue until it intersects North Grandview
Avenue Extension, thence southwesterly along North Grandview Avenue Extension
until it intersects North Grandview Avenue, thence southerly along North
Grandview Avenue until it intersects Avoca Street, thence southerly along Avoca
Street until it intersects Delaware Street, thence easterly along Delaware
Street until it intersects North Grandview Avenue, thence southerly along North
Grandview Avenue until it intersects Fillmore Street, thence easterly along
Fillmore Street until it intersects Adair Street, thence southerly along Adair
Street until it intersects Loras Boulevard, thence easterly along Loras
Boulevard until it intersects Loras College Parkway, thence northerly along
Loras College Parkway until it intersects Cox Street,thence northerly along Cox
Street until it intersects Kirkwood Street, thence northeasterly along Kirkwood
Street until it intersects West Locust Street, thence easterly along West
Locust Street until it intersects Foye Street, thence northerly along Foye
Street until it intersects Lowell Street, thence westerly along Lowell Street
until it intersects Hempstead Street, thence northerly along Hempstead Street
to the point of origin at the intersection of Hempstead Street and Kaufmann
Avenue. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-13: PRECINCT 10:
The 10th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded
by a line beginning at a point that University Avenue Extension intersects
Dodge Street, thence easterly along Dodge Street until it intersects Census
Block 3021, Tract 9, thence northerly along Census Block 3021, Tract 9 until it
intersects Bennett Street, thence easterly along Bennett Street until it
intersects North Algona Street, thence northerly along North Algona Street
until it intersects Delaware Street, thence westerly along Delaware Street
until it intersects Avoca Street, thence northerly along Avoca Street until it
intersects Rosedale Avenue, thence westerly along Rosedale Avenue until it
intersects Asbury Road, thence northwesterly along Asbury Road until it
intersects Wilbricht Lane, thence westerly along Wilbricht Lane until it
intersects Saint Anne Drive, thence westerly along Saint Anne Drive until it
intersects Bristol Drive, thence southerly along Bristol Drive until it
intersects Pennsylvania Avenue, thence easterly along Pennsylvania Avenue until
it intersects Drexel Avenue, thence southerly along Drexel Avenue until it
intersects Van Buren Street, thence westerly along Van Buren Street until it
intersects Census Block 3015, Tract 12.01, thence southerly along Census Block
3015, Tract 12.01 until it intersects University Avenue, thence easterly along
University Avenue until it intersects University Avenue Extension, thence
southerly along University Avenue Extension to the point of origin at the
intersection of University Avenue Extension and Dodge Street. (Ord. 43-11, 8-
24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-14: PRECINCT 11:
The 11th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded
by a line beginning at the point that North Grandview Avenue intersects
Kaufmann Avenue, thence southerly along North Grandview Avenue until it
intersects North Grandview Avenue Extension, thence easterly along North
Grandview Avenue Extension until it intersects Kaufmann Avenue, thence easterly
along Kaufmann Avenue until it intersects Valeria Street, thence easterly along
Valeria Street until it intersects West 23rd Street, thence easterly along West
23rd Street until it intersects Central Avenue, thence northerly along Central
Avenue until it intersects West 32nd Street, thence westerly along West 32nd
Street until it intersects North Grandview Avenue, thence southerly along North
Grandview Avenue to the point of origin at the intersection of North Grandview
Avenue and Kaufmann Avenue. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-15: PRECINCT 12:
The 12th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded
by a line beginning at the intersection of Aquin Avenue and Central Avenue,
thence easterly along Aquin Avenue until it intersects Jackson Street, thence
southerly along Jackson Street until it intersects East 32nd Street, thence
easterly along East 32nd Street until it intersects Census Block 2024, Tract
101.03, thence northerly along Census Block 2024, Tract 101.03 until it
intersects Louella Lane, thence northeasterly along Louella Lane until it
intersects Peru Road, thence easterly along Peru Road until it intersects
Sheridan Road, thence easterly along Sheridan Road until it intersects Davis
Street, thence easterly along Davis Street until it intersects Windsor Avenue,
thence southerly along Windsor Avenue until it intersects Hennepin Street,
thence easterly along Hennepin Street until it intersects Stafford Street,
thence southerly along Stafford Street until it intersects Pleasant Street,
thence easterly along Pleasant Street until it intersects Viola Street, thence
northerly along Viola Street until it intersects Eagle Street, thence easterly
along Eagle Street until it intersects Thomas Place, thence northeasterly along
Thomas Place until it intersects Ascension Street, thence easterly along
Ascension Street until it intersects Prescott Street, thence northeasterly
along Prescott Street until it intersects Roosevelt Street, thence
northwesterly along Roosevelt Street until it intersects Peru Road, thence
northerly along Peru Road until it intersects the boundary of the city of
Dubuque, thence westerly along the boundary of the city of Dubuque until it
intersects Central Avenue, thence southerly along Central Avenue to the point
of origin at the intersection of Aquin Avenue and Central Avenue. (Ord. 43-11,
8-24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-16: PRECINCT 13:
The 13th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded
by a line beginning at the point that Central Avenue intersects East 24th
Street, thence northeasterly along East 24th Street until it intersects Queen
Street, thence northerly along Queen Street until it intersects Marquette
Place, thence northeasterly along Marquette Place until it intersects Census
Block 2009, Tract 4, thence northeasterly along Census Block 2009, Tract 4
until it intersects Clinton Street, thence easterly along Clinton Street until
it intersects Brunswick Street, thence northerly along Brunswick Street until
it intersects Strauss Street, thence easterly along Strauss Street until it
intersects Balke Street, thence northwesterly along Balke Street until it
intersects Lawther Street, thence northeasterly along Lawther Street until it
intersects Windsor Avenue, thence northerly along Windsor Avenue until it
intersects Davis Street, thence westerly along Davis Street until it intersects
Sheridan Road, thence northerly along Sheridan Road until it intersects Peru
Road, thence southwesterly along Peru Road until it intersects Louella Lane,
thence northerly along Louella Lane until it intersects Census Block 2006,
Tract 101.03, thence southerly along Census Block 2006, Tract 101.03 until it
intersects East 32nd Street, thence southwesterly along East 32nd Street until
it intersects Central Avenue, thence southeasterly along Central Avenue to the
point of origin at the intersection of Central Avenue and East 24th Street.
(Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-17: PRECINCT 14:
The 14th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded
by a line beginning at the point that East 18th Street intersects Central
Avenue, thence northerly along Central Avenue until it intersects East 24th
Street, thence easterly along East 24th Street until it intersects Queen
Street, thence northerly along Queen Street until it intersects Marquette
Place, thence northerly along Marquette Place until it intersects Census Block
2009, Tract 4, thence northeasterly along Census Block 2009, Tract 4 until it
intersects Clinton Street, thence easterly along Clinton Street until it
intersects Brunswick Street, thence northerly along Brunswick Street until it
intersects Strauss Street, thence northeasterly along Strauss Street until it
intersects Balke Street, thence northwesterly along Balke Street until it
intersects Lawther Street, thence northeasterly along Lawther Street until it
intersects Windsor Avenue, thence southerly along Windsor Avenue until it
intersects Hennepin Street, thence easterly along Hennepin Street until it
intersects Stafford Street, thence southerly along Stafford Street until it
intersects Pleasant Street, thence easterly along Pleasant Street until it
intersects Viola Street, thence northerly along Viola Street until it
intersects Eagle Street, thence easterly along Eagle Street until it intersects
Thomas Place, thence southerly along Thomas Place until it intersects Farley
Street, thence southeasterly along Farley Street until it intersects Rhomberg
Avenue, thence southwesterly along Rhomberg Avenue until it intersects Kniest
Street Right-of-Way, thence southeasterly along Kniest Street Right-of-Way
until it intersects Garfield Avenue, thence southwesterly along Garfield Avenue
until it intersects Pine Street, thence southerly along Pine Street until it
intersects Census Block 4026, Tract 5, thence westerly along Census Block 4026,
Tract 5, until it intersects East 18th Street,thence westerly along East 18th
Street to the point of origin at the intersection of East 18th Street and
Central Avenue. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-18: PRECINCT 15:
The 15th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque and
Dubuque County bounded by a line beginning at the point that Peru Road
intersects Roosevelt Street, thence northerly along Peru Road until it
intersects the boundary of the city of Dubuque, thence westerly along the
boundary of the city of Dubuque until it intersects Tanzanite Drive, thence
westerly along Tanzanite Drive until it intersects Gardners Lane, thence
northernly along Gardners Lane until it intersects Boleyn Road, thence easterly
along Boleyn Road until it intersects the boundary of the city of Dubuque,
thence northerly along the boundary of the city of Dubuque, until it intersects
US Highway 151/61/Wisconsin Bridge, thence westerly along US Highway 151/61
until it intersects East 16th Street, thence westerly along East 16th Street
until it intersects Census Block 1045, Tract 1, thence northerly along Census
Block 1045, Tract 1 until it intersects Census Block 4026, Tract 5, thence
northerly along Census Block 4026, Tract 5 until it intersects Pine Street,
thence northerly along Pine Street until it intersects Garfield Avenue, thence
northeasterly along Garfield Avenue until it intersects Kniest Street Right-of-
Way, thence northwesterly along Kniest Street Right-of-Way until it intersects
Rhomberg Avenue, thence northeasterly along Rhomberg Avenue until it intersects
Farley Street, thence westerly along Farley Street until it intersects Thomas
Place, thence northeasterly along Thomas Place until it intersects Ascension
Street, thence southeasterly along Ascension Street until it intersects
Prescott Street, thence northeasterly along Prescott Street until it intersects
Roosevelt Street, thence northwesterly along Roosevelt Street to the point of
origin at the intersection of Peru Road and Roosevelt Street. (Ord. 43-11, 8-
24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021; Ord. 6-22, 2-7-2022)
1-8-19: PRECINCT 16:
The 16th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded
by a line beginning at the point that Hill Street intersects West 3rd Street,
thence southwesterly along Hill Street until it intersects Dodge Street, thence
easterly along Dodge Street until it intersects the boundary of the city of
Dubuque, thence northerly along the boundary of the city of Dubuque until it
intersects US Highway 151/61/Wisconsin Bridge, thence westerly along US Highway
151/61 until it intersects East 16th Street, thence westerly along East 16th
Street until it intersects Census Block 1045, Tract 1,thence northerly along
Census Block 1045, Tract 1 until it intersects Census Block 4026, Tract
5,thence northerly and westerly along Census Block 4026, Tract 5 until it
intersects East 18th Street, thence westerly along East 18th Street until it
intersects Central Avenue, thence southerly along Central Avenue until it
intersects Loras Boulevard, thence westerly along Loras Boulevard until it
intersects Bluff Street, thence southerly along Bluff Street until it
intersects West 3rd Street, thence westerly along West 3rd Street to the point
of origin at the intersection of Hill Street and West 3rd Street. (Ord. 43-11,
8-24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-20: PRECINCT 17:
The 17th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded
by a line beginning at the point that Loras College Parkway intersects Loras
Boulevard, thence easterly along Loras Boulevard until it intersects Central
Avenue, thence northerly along Central Avenue until it intersects West 23rd
Street, thence westerly along West 23rd Street until it intersects Valeria
Street, thence westerly along Valeria Street until it intersects Kaufmann
Avenue, thence southeasterly along Kaufmann Avenue until it intersects
Hempstead Street, thence southwesterly along Hempstead Street until it
intersects Lowell Street, thence easterly along Lowell Street until it
intersects Foye Street, thence southerly along Foye Street until it intersects
West Locust Street, thence westerly along West Locust Street until it
intersects Kirkwood Street, thence southwesterly along Kirkwood Street until it
intersects Cox Street, thence southerly along Cox Street until it intersects
Loras College Parkway,thence southerly along Loras College Parkway to the point
of origin at the intersection of Loras College Parkway and Loras Boulevard.
(Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-21: PRECINCT 18:
The 18th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded
by a line beginning at the point that Alpine Street intersects West 3rd Street,
thence easterly along West 3rd Street until it intersects Bluff Street, thence
northerly along Bluff Street until it intersects Loras Boulevard, thence
westerly along Loras Boulevard until it intersects Alta Vista Street, thence
southeasterly along Alta Vista Street until it intersects Carlotta Street,
thence westerly along Carlotta Street until it intersects Alpine Street, thence
southerly along Alpine Street to the point of origin at the intersection of the
Alpine Street and West 3rd Street. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-
6-2021)
1-8-22: PRECINCT 19:
The 19th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded
by a line beginning at a point that Dodge Street intersects Hill Street, thence
northerly along Hill Street until it intersects West 3rd Street, thence
westerly along West 3rd Street until it intersects Alpine Street, thence
northerly along Alpine Street until it intersects Carlotta Street, thence
easterly along Carlotta Street until it intersects Alta Vista Street, thence
northerly along Alta Vista Street until it intersects Loras Boulevard, thence
southwesterly along Loras Boulevard until it intersects Adair Street, thence
northerly along Adair Street until it intersects Fillmore Street, thence
westerly along Fillmore Street until it intersects North Grandview Avenue,
thence northerly along North Grandview Avenue until it intersects Delaware
Street, thence westerly along Delaware Street until it intersects North Algona
Street, thence southerly along North Algona Street until it intersects Bennett
Street, thence westerly along Bennett Street until it intersects Census Block
3020, Tract 9, thence southerly along Census Block 3020, Tract 9 until it
intersects Dodge Street, thence easterly along Dodge Street to the point of
origin at the intersection of Dodge Street and Hill Street. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-
2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-23: PRECINCT 20:
The 20th Precinct is described as that portion of the city of Dubuque bounded
by a line beginning at a point where Hill Street intersects Dodge Street,
thence easterly along Dodge Street to the boundary of the city of Dubuque,
thence southerly along the boundary of the city of Dubuque until it intersects
US Highway 151/61, thence northerly along Highway 151/61 until it intersects
the Chicago Central and Pacific Railroad centerline,thence westerly along the
Chicago Central and Pacific Railroad centerline until it intersects Rockdale
Road, thence northeasterly along Rockdale Road until it intersects Southern
Avenue,thence northerly along Southern Avenue until it intersects South
Grandview Avenue, thence northwesterly along South Grandview Avenue until it
intersects Dodge Street, thence easterly along Dodge Street to the point of
origin at the intersection of Hill Street and Dodge Street. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-
2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-24: CITY DIVIDED INTO FOUR WARDS:
The city is hereby divided into four (4) wards as described in this chapter.
(Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-25: WARD 1:
The first ward is comprised of precincts 1 through 5. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011;
amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-26: WARD 2:
The second ward is comprised of precincts 6 through 10. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011;
amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-27: WARD 3:
The third ward is comprised of precincts 11 through 15. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-2011;
amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
1-8-28: WARD 4:
The fourth ward is comprised of precincts 16 through 20. (Ord. 43-11, 8-24-
2011; amd. Ord. 43-21, 12-6-2021)
CHAPTER 9
EVIDENTIARY HEARINGS BY CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-9-1: Purpose And Intent
1-9-2: General Provisions
1-9-3: Form Of Notice Of Hearing
1-9-4: Subpoenas
1-9-5: Conduct Of Hearing
1-9-6: Method And Form Of Decision
1-9-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish an orderly, efficient
and expeditious process for evidentiary hearings before the city council.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to a proceeding required by
constitution, statute or ordinance to be determined by the city council after
an opportunity for an evidentiary hearing. (2007 Code § 1-30)
1-9-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Record: A record of the entire proceedings shall be made by tape
recording or by any other means of permanent recording determined to be
appropriate by the city council.
   B.   Reporting: The proceedings at the hearing may also be reported by a
court reporter at the expense of any party.
   C.   Continuances: The city council may grant continuances for good cause
shown.
   D.   Oaths, Certification: The city council or any member thereof has the
power to administer oaths and affirmations.
   E.   Reasonable Dispatch: The city council shall proceed with reasonable
dispatch to conclude any matter before it. Due regard shall be shown for the
convenience and necessity of any parties or their representatives. (2007 Code §
1-31)
1-9-3: FORM OF NOTICE OF HEARING:
The form of notice to the parties shall be on file with the city clerk. (2007
Code § 1-32)
1-9-4: SUBPOENAS:
The city council may issue a subpoena for the attendance of witnesses or the
production of other evidence at a hearing upon the request of a member of the
city council or upon the written demand of any party. The issuance and service
of such subpoena shall be obtained upon the filing of an affidavit therefor
which states the name and address of the proposed witness; specifies the exact
things sought to be produced and the materiality thereof in detail to the
issues involved; and states that the witness has the desired things in the
witness' possession or under the witness' control. A subpoena need not be
issued when the affidavit is defective in any particular. (2007 Code § 1-33)
1-9-5: CONDUCT OF HEARING:
   A.   Rules: Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses.
   B.   Oral Evidence: Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or
affirmation.
   C.   Hearsay Evidence: Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in
itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible in civil actions in
courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
   D.   Admissibility Of Evidence: Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if
it is the type of evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely
in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common
law or statutory rule which might make improper the admission of such evidence
in civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
   E.   Exclusion Of Evidence: Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall
be excluded.
   F.   Rights Of Parties: Each party shall have these rights, among others:
      1.   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues
of the hearing;
      2.   To introduce documentary and physical evidence;
      3.   To cross examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing;
      4.   To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called the
witness to testify;
      5.   To rebut the evidence against the party; and
      6.   To self-representation or to be represented by anyone of the party's
choice who is lawfully permitted to do so.
   G.   Official Notice:
      1.   What May Be Noticed: In reaching a decision, official notice may be
taken, either before or after submission of the case for decision, of any fact
which may be judicially noticed by the courts of this state or of official
records of the city or its departments and ordinances of the city.
      2.   Parties To Be Notified: Parties present at the hearing shall be
informed of the matters to be noticed, and these matters shall be noted in the
record, referred to therein, or appended thereto.
      3.   Opportunity To Refute: Parties present at the hearing shall be given
a reasonable opportunity, on request, to refute the officially noticed matters
by evidence or by written or oral presentation of authority, the manner of such
refutation to be determined by the city council.
   H.   Inspection Of Premises: The city council may inspect any building or
premises involved in the appeal during the course of the hearing, provided
that:
      1.   Notice of such inspection shall be given to the parties before the
inspection is made;
      2.   The parties are given an opportunity to be present during the
inspection; and
      3.   The city council shall state for the record, upon completion of the
inspection, the material facts observed and the conclusions drawn therefrom.
Each party then shall have a right to rebut or explain the matters so stated by
the city council. (2007 Code § 1-34)
1-9-6: METHOD AND FORM OF DECISION:
   A.   Hearings Before City Council: Where a case is heard before the city
council, no member thereof who did not hear the evidence or has not read the
entire record of the proceedings shall vote on or take part in the decision.
The city council may designate a member or members to preside over the receipt
of evidence. Such member or members shall prepare findings of fact for the city
council.
   B.   Form Of Decision: The decision shall be in writing and shall contain
findings of fact, a determination of the issues presented, and the requirements
to be complied with. A copy of the decision shall be delivered to the parties
personally or sent to them by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested.
   C.   Effective Date Of Decision: The effective date of the decision shall be
stated therein. (2007 Code § 1-35)
CHAPTER 10
MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Fiscal Year
1-10-2: Bonds; Approval
1-10-3: Emergency Location For City Government
1-10-4: City Seal
1-10-5: City Flag
1-10-1: FISCAL YEAR:
July 1 of each year shall be and is hereby fixed as the first day of the fiscal
year, and all accounts, records, statements and transactions of every kind or
nature shall be based or dated from July 1 of each year as the fiscal year and
all accounts, records, and transactions shall be closed on June 30 as the last
day of the fiscal year. (2007 Code § 2-1)
1-10-2: BONDS; APPROVAL:
Bonds of every character and description which are necessary to be furnished by
the city by virtue of the provisions of any ordinance, except bonds required to
be furnished by public officials, may be approved by the endorsement of the
city manager thereon and filed in the office of the city clerk, and such
approval shall have the same force and effect as if they were approved by the
city council. (2007 Code § 2-2)
1-10-3: EMERGENCY LOCATION FOR CITY GOVERNMENT:
   A.   Whenever, due to an emergency resulting from the effects of enemy
attack, or the anticipated effects of a threatened enemy attack, it becomes
imprudent, inexpedient or impossible to conduct the affairs of the city at the
regular or usual place or places thereof, the city council may meet at any
place within or without the territorial limits of the city, or at any place
within or without the territorial limits of the state, on the call of the mayor
or on the call of any two (2) council members.
   B.   Alternate or substitute sites or places as the emergency temporary
location or locations of city government where all or any part of the public
business may be transacted and conducted during the emergency may be
established or designated by resolution or by proclamation.
   C.   During the period when the public business is being conducted at the
temporary location or locations, the city council and other officers of the
city shall have and possess and shall exercise, at such location or locations,
all of the executive, legislative and judicial powers and functions conferred
upon the city council and other officers of the city by or under the laws of
the state. Such powers and functions may be exercised in the light of the
exigencies of the emergency situation without regard to or compliance with time
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law and pertaining thereto,
and all acts of the city council and officers of the city shall be as valid and
binding as if performed within the territorial limits of the city. (2007 Code §
2-3)
1-10-4: CITY SEAL:
   A.   Established: The seal heretofore provided and used by and for the city,
having in the center the words "La Petite Nuit", and around the edge "Seal of
the City of Dubuque, Iowa", is hereby established and declared to have been and
now to be the seal of the city.
   B.   Custody: The seal of the city shall be and remain in the custody of the
city clerk of the city or the city clerk's deputy, and shall be affixed by the
city clerk to all ordinances, passed by the council, which require the
signature of the mayor and city clerk, or either of them; it shall also be
affixed by the city clerk to all such notices, certificates, and other
authenticated papers as shall be required to be issued by the city clerk, by
law. (2007 Code § 2-4)
1-10-5: CITY FLAG:
   A.   Specifications: The flag designed by Maureen E. Frommelt, selected
through an open competition in 1967, and which flag being rectangular in shape
consisting of a United Nations blue border followed by an Irish green band with
a gold center upon which the city seal is imprinted in black lettering, as such
design is displayed on the flag in city council chambers in city hall, is
hereby adopted as the official city flag, for use on all occasions where the
official city flag may be appropriately displayed.
   B.   Use: Such design may be used as the official flag and may as such be
displayed on all proper occasions where the city is officially represented,
such display shall be subservient to the display of the Iowa state banner and/
or the national flag. (2007 Code § 2-6)
CHAPTER 11
EMERGENCY SUCCESSION DURING DISASTER
SECTION:
1-11-1: Purpose
1-11-2: Definitions
1-11-3: Appointment
1-11-4: Termination Of Authority By Council
1-11-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Because of the existing and increasing possibility of the occurrence of
a natural or person caused disaster or major accident, it is imperative that
the administrative functions of the city be maintained and continued to protect
the public peace, health and safety.
   B.   It is the policy of the city council to provide for emergency interim
successors to those city employees whose appointments are the responsibility of
the city council. (2007 Code § 2-199)
1-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings as set
forth:
DISASTER: Person caused and natural occurrences such as fire, flood, drought,
earthquake, tornado, windstorm, hazardous substance or nuclear plant accident
or incident which threatens the public peace, health and safety of the people
of the city or which damage and destroy public or private property. The term
includes enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile actions from without the
state.
EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSOR: A person designated pursuant to this chapter in
the event a person is unavailable to exercise the powers and discharge the
duties of an office until a successor is appointed or until the lawful
incumbent is able to resume exercise of the powers and discharge the duties of
the office.
UNAVAILABLE: Either that a vacancy in office exists and there is no deputy
authorized to exercise all of the powers and discharge the duties of the office
or that the lawful incumbent of the office is absent or unable to exercise the
powers and discharge the duties of the office. (2007 Code § 2-200)
1-11-3: APPOINTMENT:
The following emergency interim successors are appointed in the event of the
unavailability of the incumbent of that office:
   A.   Assistant city manager shall become city manager, if the latter is
unavailable.
   B.   Deputy city clerk shall become city clerk, if the latter is
unavailable.
   C.   The most senior assistant city attorney in tenure shall become city
attorney, if the latter is unavailable. (2007 Code § 2-201)
1-11-4: TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY BY COUNCIL:
The city council may at any time by adoption of a resolution terminate the
authority of any emergency interim successors. (2007 Code § 2-202)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
HEARINGS AND APPEALS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose And Intent
2-1-2: General Provisions
2-1-3: Form Of Notice Of Hearing
2-1-4: Subpoenas
2-1-5: Conduct Of Hearing
2-1-6: Method And Form Of Decision
2-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish an orderly, efficient
and expeditious process for boards and commissions of the city to execute in
the conduct of hearing appeals.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all boards and
commissions of the city authorized to conduct appeals unless a different
procedure is specified for a particular board or commission by the code of
ordinances of the city or by the code of Iowa. (2007 Code § 1-20)
2-1-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Record: A record of the entire proceedings shall be made by tape
recording or by any other means of permanent recording determined to be
appropriate by the board or commission.
   B.   Reporting: The proceedings at the hearings may also be reported by a
court reporter at the expense of any party.
   C.   Continuances: The board or commission may grant continuances for good
cause shown.
   D.   Oaths; Certification: The board or commission or any member thereof has
the power to administer oaths and affirmations.
   E.   Reasonable Dispatch: The board or commission and its representatives
shall proceed with reasonable dispatch to conclude any matter before it. Due
regard shall be shown for the convenience and necessity of any parties or their
representatives. (2007 Code § 1-21)
2-1-3: FORM OF NOTICE OF HEARING:
The form of notice to the parties shall be on file with the city clerk. (2007
Code § 1-22)
2-1-4: SUBPOENAS:
The board or commission may issue a subpoena for the attendance of witnesses or
the production of other evidence at a hearing upon the request of a member of
the board or commission or upon the written demand of any party. The issuance
and service of such subpoena shall be obtained upon the filing of an affidavit
therefor which states the name and address of the proposed witness; specifies
the exact things sought and states that the witness has the desired things in
said witness' possession or under said witness' control. A subpoena need not be
issued when the affidavit is defective in any particular. (2007 Code § 1-23)
2-1-5: CONDUCT OF HEARING:
   A.   Rules: Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses.
   B.   Oral Evidence: Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or
affirmation.
   C.   Hearsay Evidence: Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in
itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible in civil actions in
courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
   D.   Admissibility Of Evidence: Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if
it is the type of evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely
in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common
law or statutory rule which might make improper the admission of such evidence
in civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
   E.   Exclusion Of Evidence: Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall
be excluded.
   F.   Rights Of Parties: Each party shall have these rights, among others:
      1.   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues
of the hearing;
      2.   To introduce documentary and physical evidence;
      3.   To cross examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing;
      4.   To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called the
witness to testify;
      5.   To rebut the evidence against said party; and
      6.   To self-representation or to be represented by anyone of the party's
choice who is lawfully permitted to do so.
   G.   Official Notice:
      1.   What May Be Noticed: In reaching a decision, official notice may be
taken, either before or after submission of the case for decision, of any fact
which may be judicially noticed by the courts of this state or of official
records of the board or commission or departments and ordinances of the city or
rules and regulations of the board or commission.
      2.   Parties To Be Notified: Parties present at the hearing shall be
informed of the matters to be noticed, and these matters shall be noted in the
record, referred to therein, or appended thereto.
      3.   Opportunity To Refute: Parties present at the hearing shall be given
a reasonable opportunity, on request, to refute the officially noticed matters
by evidence or by written or oral presentation of authority, the manner of such
refutation to be determined by the board or commission.
   H.   Inspection Of Premises: The board or commission may inspect any
building or premises involved in the appeal during the course of the hearing,
provided that:
      1.   Notice of such inspection shall be given to the parties before the
inspection is made;
      2.   The parties are given an opportunity to be present during the
inspection; and
      3.   The board or commission shall state for the record upon completion
of the inspection the material facts observed and the conclusions drawn
therefrom. Each party then shall have a right to rebut or explain the matters
so stated by the board or commission. (2007 Code § 1-24)
2-1-6: METHOD AND FORM OF DECISION:
   A.   Hearing Before Board: Where a case is heard before the board or
commission, no member thereof who did not hear the evidence or has not read the
entire record of the proceedings shall vote on or take part in the decision.
   B.   Form Of Decision: The decision shall be in writing and shall contain
findings of fact, a determination of the issues presented, and the requirements
to be complied with. A copy of the decision shall be delivered to the appellant
personally or sent to the appellant by certified mail, postage prepaid, return
receipt requested.
   C.   Effective Date Of Decision: The effective date of the decision shall be
stated therein. (2007 Code § 1-25)
CHAPTER 2
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Created
2-2-2: Purpose
2-2-3: Internal Organization And Rules
2-2-4: Procedures For Operation
2-2-5: Membership
2-2-6: Oath
2-2-7: Terms
2-2-8: Vacancies
2-2-9: Officers/Organization
2-2-10: Meetings
2-2-11: Compensation
2-2-12: Removal
2-2-13: Powers
2-2-14: City Council To Furnish Meeting Room, Equipment, Recorder
2-2-15: Record Of Meetings And Personnel
2-2-16: Examination Of Applicants
2-2-17: Conduct Of Examinations; Certification Of Qualified Persons
2-2-18: Procedure For Conduct Of Hearing Appeals
2-2-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the civil service commission. (Ord. 56-15, 9-8-2015)
2-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commission is to conduct entrance examinations, conduct
promotional examinations, and act as an appeals board as provided in chapter
400 of the Iowa Code. (Ord. 56-15, 9-8-2015)
2-2-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The commission may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as may be necessary and which are not in conflict with this code or
the Iowa Code. (Ord. 56-15, 9-8-2015)
2-2-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the city govern the commission in all its operations. (Ord. 56-15, 9-8-2015)
2-2-5: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Composition: The commission comprises five (5) residents of the city,
appointed by the mayor with approval of the city council.
   B.   Special Qualifications:
      1.   Commissioners must be citizens of Iowa, eligible electors as defined
in the Iowa Code, and may not hold or be a candidate for any office of public
trust.
      2.   The human rights director shall, ex officio, be a member, without
vote.
      3.   Commissioners may not do any of the following:
         a.   Sell, or in any manner become parties, directly or indirectly, to
any contract to furnish supplies, material, or labor to the city unless the
sale is made or the contract is awarded by competitive bid in writing, publicly
invited and opened.
         b.   Have an interest, direct or indirect, in any contract or job of
work or material or the profits thereof or services to be furnished or
performed for the city unless the contract or job is awarded by competitive bid
in writing, publicly invited and opened. (Ord. 56-15, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 47-
22, 12-19-2022; Ord. 28-24, 6-17-2024; Ord. 26-25, 6-16-2025)
2-2-6: OATH:
Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an oath of office
at the first meeting of the commission following the appointment or at the city
clerk's office any time prior to the first meeting of the commission. (Ord. 56-
15, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 28-24, 6-17-2024)
2-2-7: TERMS:
   A.   Pursuant to state law the Commission is expanded from three (3)
residents to five (5) residents effective August 16, 2025. The terms of the
existing commissioners shall remain the same. The initial terms for the
additional commissioners shall be through April 6, 2027.
   B.   Following the initial terms for the additional commissioners, any
future terms shall be at the standard term length for the commission. The term
of office for commissioners is four (4) years or until such commissioner's
successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 26-25, 6-16-2025)
2-2-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original appointments. (Ord. 56-
15, 9-8-2015)
2-2-9: OFFICERS/ORGANIZATION:
The commissioners must choose annually a chairperson and vice chairperson, each
to serve a term of one year. The city clerk, or the city clerk's designee, is
the clerk of the commission. The commissioners must fill a vacancy among its
officers for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 56-15, 9-8-
2015)
2-2-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The commission meets monthly. When there is no
business, there is no obligation to meet.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairperson or
at the written request of a majority of the commissioners.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa open meetings law.
   D.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   E.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the commission must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting, whichever is later.
   F.   Quorum: Three (3) commissioners constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the commissioners present
and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or resolution. (Ord. 56-
15, 9-8-2015; amd. Ord. 37-22, 11-7-2022; Ord. 28-24, 6-17-2024; Ord. 26-25, 6-
16-2025)
2-2-11: COMPENSATION:
Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official
commission business within the limits established in the city administrative
policies and budget. (Ord. 56-15, 9-8-2015)
2-2-12: REMOVAL:
The mayor may remove any commissioner for cause upon written charges and after
public hearing. (Ord. 56-15, 9-8-2015)
2-2-13: POWERS:
The commission has the powers, duties, and responsibilities as outlined in
chapter 400 of the Iowa Code. (Ord. 56-15, 9-8-2015)
2-2-14: CITY COUNCIL TO FURNISH MEETING ROOM, EQUIPMENT, RECORDER:
The city council must provide suitable rooms in which the commission may hold
its meetings and supply the commission with all necessary equipment and a
qualified shorthand reporter to enable it properly to perform its duties. (Ord.
56-15, 9-8-2015)
2-2-15: RECORD OF MEETINGS AND PERSONNEL:
The commission must keep a record of all its meetings and also a complete
individual service record of each civil service employee which record must be
permanent and kept up to date. (Ord. 56-15, 9-8-2015)
2-2-16: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS:
Examinations for the positions in the city civil service are to be applicable
and required of all applicants in accordance with the Iowa Code. (Ord. 56-15,
9-8-2015)
2-2-17: CONDUCT OF EXAMINATIONS; CERTIFICATION OF QUALIFIED PERSONS:
The commission must conduct examinations in accordance with the provisions of
the laws of the state relative thereto, and for the purpose of determining the
qualifications of applicants for positions under civil service, and must duly
certify to the city council a list of the qualified persons as set forth in the
Iowa Code. (Ord. 56-15, 9-8-2015)
2-2-18: PROCEDURE FOR CONDUCT OF HEARING APPEALS:
Notwithstanding chapter 1 of this title, the commission may adopt its own rules
governing the procedure for the conduct of hearing appeals. (Ord. 56-15, 9-8-
2015)
CHAPTER 3
INVESTMENT AND CASH MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT ADVISORY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Commission Created
2-3-2: Purpose
2-3-3: Internal Organization And Rules
2-3-4: Procedures For Operation
2-3-5: Membership
2-3-6: Oath
2-3-7: Terms
2-3-8: Vacancies
2-3-9: Officers; Organization
2-3-10: Meetings
2-3-11: Compensation
2-3-12: Removal
2-3-13: Powers
2-3-14: Reports Provided
2-3-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the investment and cash management oversight advisory
commission. (Ord. 52-14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 1-25, 1-6-2025)
2-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commission is to review the actions and decisions of the
city's investments and all money managers for compliance with the city's
investment policy and to report any noncompliance to the city council; to
review internal cash management practices and external agreements regarding the
banking services agreement, U.S. Treasuries, and certificates of deposits; to
review the investment performance of the City's investments and money managers
and to report to the City Council concerning such investment at least
quarterly; and to recommend, as needed, changes in the investment policy or
cash management practices to the city council. (Ord. 52-14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord.
1-25, 1-6-2025)
2-3-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The commission may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as may be necessary and which are not in conflict with this code or
the Iowa Code. (Ord. 52-14, 8-4-2014)
2-3-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the city govern the commission in all its operations. (Ord. 52-14, 8-4-2014)
2-3-5: MEMBERSHIP:
The commission comprises five (5) residents of the city, appointed by the city
council, who have knowledge about investments and finance but with no
affiliation with a firm or corporation which does now or during the term of a
commissioner provides investment or financial advice or services to the city.
(Ord. 52-14, 8-4-2014)
2-3-6: OATH:
Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an oath of office
at the first meeting of the commission following the appointment or at the city
clerk's office any time prior to the first meeting of the commission. (Ord. 52-
14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 35-24, 6-17-2024)
2-3-7: TERMS:
The term of office for commissioners is three (3) years or until such
commissioner's successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 52-14, 8-4-2014)
2-3-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original appointments. (Ord. 52-
14, 8-4-2014)
2-3-9: OFFICERS; ORGANIZATION:
The commissioners must choose annually a chairperson and vice chairperson, each
to serve a term of one year. The chairperson must appoint a secretary, who need
not be a member of the commission. The commissioners must fill a vacancy among
its officers for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 52-14, 8-
4-2014)
2-3-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The commission must meet quarterly.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairperson or
at the written request of a majority of the commissioners.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa open meetings law.
   D.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   E.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the commission must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting, whichever is later.
   F.   Quorum: Three (3) commissioners constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the commissioners present
and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or resolution. (Ord. 52-
14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 35-24, 6-17-2024)
2-3-11: COMPENSATION:
Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official
commission business within the limits established in the city administrative
policies and budget. (Ord. 52-14, 8-4-2014)
2-3-12: REMOVAL:
Except as provided in subsection
2-3-10D1 of this chapter, the city council may remove any commissioner for good
cause. (Ord. 29-15, 5-18-2015)
2-3-13: POWERS:
The commission has the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
   A.   To review the actions and decisions of the Chief Financial Officer and
the city's money managers for compliance with the city's investment policy and
report any noncompliance to the city council;
   B.   To recommend, as needed, changes in the city's investment policy to the
city manager and the city council;
   C.   To review the investment performance of the city and the city's money
managers and report to the city council concerning same at least quarterly; and
   D.   To review the City's internal cash management practices and external
agreements regarding the banking services agreement, U.S. Treasuries, and
certificates of deposits for compliance with agreement terms and conditions.
(Ord. 52-14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 3-20, 1-21-2020; Ord. 1-25, 1-6-2025; Ord. 6-
25, 2-17-2025)
2-3-14: REPORTS PROVIDED:
The Chief Financial Officer must provide the commission with monthly,
quarterly, and annual reports prepared by the Chief Financial Officer and the
city's financial advisors. (Ord. 52-14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 3-20, 1-21-2020;
Ord. 1-25, 1-6-2025; Ord. 6-25, 2-17-2025)
CHAPTER 4
CIVIC CENTER ADVISORY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Commission Created
2-4-2: Purpose
2-4-3: Internal Organization And Rules
2-4-4: Procedures For Operation
2-4-5: Membership
2-4-6: Oath
2-4-7: Terms
2-4-8: Vacancies
2-4-9: Officers/Organization
2-4-10: Meetings
2-4-11: Compensation
2-4-12: Removal
2-4-13: Powers
2-4-14: Solicitation And Acceptance Of Donations
2-4-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the civic center advisory commission. (Ord. 66-15, 10-
19-2015)
2-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commission is to advise the parks and recreation department,
the city manager, and the city council and to make recommendations for the
optimum utilization of the civic center facility by the widest possible range
of users and uses to respond to community needs and demands at the least
possible cost to the city. (Ord. 66-15, 10-19-2015; amd. Ord. 5-25, 2-17-2025)
2-4-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The commission may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as may be necessary and which are not in conflict with this code or
the Iowa Code. (Ord. 66-15, 10-19-2015)
2-4-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the city govern the commission in all its operations. (Ord. 66-15, 10-19-
2015)
2-4-5: MEMBERSHIP:
   The commission comprises five (5) residents of the city, appointed by the
city council. (Ord. 66-15, 10-19-2015; amd. Ord. 27-24, 6-17-2024)
2-4-6: OATH:
Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an oath of office
at the first meeting of the commission following the appointment or at the city
clerk's office any time prior to the first meeting of the commission. (Ord. 66-
15, 10-19-2015; amd. Ord. 27-24, 6-17-2024)
2-4-7: TERMS:
The term of office for commissioners is three (3) years or until such
commissioner's successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 66-15, 10-19-2015)
2-4-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original appointments. (Ord. 66-
15, 10-19-2015)
2-4-9: OFFICERS/ORGANIZATION:
The commissioners must choose annually a chairperson and vice chairperson, each
to serve a term of one year. The chairperson must appoint a secretary, who need
not be a member of the commission. The commissioners must fill a vacancy among
its officers for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 66-15,
10-19-2015)
2-4-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The commission must meet quarterly.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairperson or
at the written request of a majority of the commissioners.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa open meetings law.
   D.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   E.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the commission must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting, whichever is later.
   F.   Quorum: Three (3) commissioners constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the commissioners present
and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or resolution. (Ord. 66-
15, 10-19-2015; amd. Ord. 27-24, 6-17-2024)
2-4-11: COMPENSATION:
Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official
commission business within the limits established in the city administrative
policies and budget. (Ord. 66-15, 10-19-2015)
2-4-12: REMOVAL:
Except as provided in subsection
2-4-10D1 of this chapter, the city council may remove any commissioner for good
cause. (Ord. 66-15, 10-19-2015)
2-4-13: POWERS:
The commission has the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
   A.   Provide the city council with recommendations that further the general
and specific purposes of the commission.
   B.   All funds derived from taxation or otherwise for airport purposes are
under the control of the commission for the purposes of management, operation,
and control of the airport and must be deposited with the Chief Financial
Officer to the credit of the commission and must be disbursed only on the
written warrant or order of the commission including the payment of all
indebtedness arising from the acquisition and construction of airports and the
maintenance, operation, and extension thereof.
   C.   Recommend programs to provide a variety of year round intellectual,
cultural, enjoyable, and attractive leisure time activities which contribute to
the physical and mental well being of residents and visitors.
   D.   Recommend programs which contribute to the economic base of the
community by encouraging business use of the civic center facility.
   E.   Recommend schedules of fees and charges for special building services,
equipment, special building features, and rental rates.
   F.   Recommend informational and promotional programs to secure the full
support and participation of the community.
   G.   Recommend the annual operating budget and an ongoing capital
improvements budget that provide a safe, secure, sanitary, clean, and
attractive facility.
   H.   Recommend development of community partnerships related to tourism for
optimum utilization of the civic center facility. (Ord. 66-15, 10-19-2015; amd.
Ord. 6-25, 2-17-2025)
2-4-14: SOLICITATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF DONATIONS:
The commission may solicit donations and gifts of money, personal and real
property, and personal services, which must be donated or gifted to the City of
Dubuque, for the general support of the civic center unless such donations or
gifts are designated by the donor for a specific purpose. (Ord. 66-15, 10-19-
2015)
CHAPTER 5
HOUSING AGENCY AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE A. MUNICIPAL HOUSING AGENCY AND GOVERNING BOARD
(Rep. by Ord. 26-09, 6-1-2009)
ARTICLE B. HOUSING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5B-1: Commission Created
2-5B-2: Purpose
2-5B-3: Internal Organization And Rules
2-5B-4: Procedures For Operation
2-5B-5: Membership
2-5B-6: Oath
2-5B-7: Terms
2-5B-8: Vacancies
2-5B-9: Officers/Organization
2-5B-10: Meetings
2-5B-11: Compensation
2-5B-12: Removal
2-5B-13: Powers
2-5B-14: Project Approval
2-5B-15: Monitor Housing Program; Conduct Hearings On Grievances
2-5B-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the housing commission. (Ord. 67-15, 10-19-2015)
2-5B-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commission is to undertake and carry out studies and
analysis of housing needs and the meeting of such needs; to recommend proposed
projects in the area of low and moderate income housing for the citizens of the
city; to monitor the city's housing programs; and to conduct grievances
regarding the rental assistance program, except in the area of property
maintenance code enforcement. (Ord. 31-16, 6-20-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
2-5B-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The commission may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as may be necessary and which are not in conflict with this code or
the Iowa Code. (Ord. 67-15, 10-19-2015)
2-5B-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the city govern the commission in all its operations. (Ord. 67-15, 10-19-
2015)
2-5B-5: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Number: The commission comprises ten (10) residents of the city.
   B.   Special Qualifications:
      1.   At least three (3) members must be appointed specifically on the
basis of experience in real estate development, banking, finance, accounting,
funds management, or other related areas of expertise.
      2.   One (1) member must be a person who is a recipient of tenant based
rental assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937,
whose name appears on a lease of section 8 property. If such member ceases to
be a recipient of rental assistance under section 8, the term of such member is
deemed terminated and a new member who meets the requirements of this
subsection must be appointed for the remainder of the term.
      3.   The remaining members are at-large members.
      4.   Cross-Representation:
         a.   One (1) member must be appointed by the commission, with city
council approval, to serve on the community development advisory commission.
         b.   One (1) member must be appointed by the commission, with city
council approval, to serve on the long range planning advisory commission.
(Ord. 74-15, 12-7-2015; amd. Ord. 5-21, 2-15-2021; Ord. 54-23, 12-4-2023; Ord.
33-24, 6-17-2024)
2-5B-6: OATH:
Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an oath of office
at the first meeting of the commission following the appointment or at the city
clerk's office any time prior to the first meeting of the commission. (Ord. 67-
15, 10-19-2015; Ord. 33-24, 6-17-2024)
2-5B-7: TERMS:
The term of office for commissioners is three (3) years or until such
commissioner's successor is appointed and qualified. The terms of the cross
representative appointees to the community development advisory commission and
the long range planning advisory commission must coincide with their terms on
the housing commission. (Ord. 67-15, 10-19-2015; amd. Ord. 5-21, 2-15-2021)
2-5B-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original appointments. (Ord. 67-
15, 10-19-2015)
2-5B-9: OFFICERS/ORGANIZATION:
The commissioners must choose annually a chairperson and vice chairperson, each
to serve a term of one year. The chairperson must appoint a secretary, who need
not be a member of the commission. The commissioners must fill a vacancy among
its officers for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 67-15,
10-19-2015)
2-5B-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The commission must meet quarterly.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairperson or
at the written request of a majority of the commissioners.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa open meetings law.
   D.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   E.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the commission must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting, whichever is later.
   F.   Quorum: Six (6) commissioners constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the commissioners present
and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or resolution. (Ord. 67-
15, 10-19-2015; amd. Ord. 38-21, 11-1-2021; Ord. 33-24, 6-17-2024)
2-5B-11: COMPENSATION:
Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official
commission business within the limits established in the city administrative
policies and budget. (Ord. 67-15, 10-19-2015)
2-5B-12: REMOVAL:
Except as provided in subsection
2-5B-10D1 of this chapter, the city council may remove any commissioner for
good cause. (Ord. 67-15, 10-19-2015)
2-5B-13: POWERS:
The commission has the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
   A.   To contribute as appropriate in the planning, coordinating, and review
of housing development;
   B.   To conduct public hearings to ensure meaningful citizen input in the
planning, implementation, and assessment of the city's housing programs;
   C.   To provide for and encourage the participation of low and moderate
income persons in the planning, implementation, and assessment of housing
programs;
   D.   To provide input into the community planning process and to assist in
accomplishing a coordinated and consistent housing development program of the
city in accordance with present and future housing needs;
   E.   To request and review ongoing surveys assessing housing needs and
identifying future community housing needs, particularly the needs of persons
of low and moderate income;
   F.   To support the efforts of the city council and other city commissions
in the assessment of the general housing needs of the community;
   G.   To undertake from time to time other specific ongoing housing planning
which may be referred to it by the city council;
   H.   To research and recommend to the city council policies and programs
facilitating the development of affordable housing;
   I.   To undertake public information efforts to educate citizens of the
availability of federal, state, and locally funded housing assistance programs;
   J.   To assist in the preparation of the housing element of the city
comprehensive plan and the annual consolidated plan; and
   K.   Undertake such additional duties, upon the request of the City Council.
(Ord. 67-15, 10-19-2015; amd. Ord. 54-23, 12-4-2023)
2-5B-14: PROJECT APPROVAL:
Any proposed low rent housing project is subject to the approval of the city
council and any project requiring a referendum as provided in the Iowa Code
must be submitted to the voters of the city in accordance with the Iowa Code.
(Ord. 67-15, 10-19-2015)
2-5B-15: MONITOR HOUSING PROGRAM; CONDUCT HEARINGS ON GRIEVANCES:
The commission monitors the city's housing program and conducts hearings on
grievances arising out of the operation of such program with the exception of
property maintenance code enforcement which is handled by the housing board of
appeals. (Ord. 31-16, 6-20-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
ARTICLE C. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5C-1: Commission Created
2-5C-2: Purpose
2-5C-3: Internal Organization And Rules
2-5C-4: Procedures For Operation
2-5C-5: Membership
2-5C-6: Oath
2-5C-7: Terms
2-5C-8: Vacancies
2-5C-9: Officers/Organization
2-5C-10: Meetings
2-5C-11: Compensation
2-5C-12: Removal
2-5C-13: Powers
2-5C-14: Grievance Procedure; Review Standards; Appeal Process
2-5C-15: Procedures For Operations
2-5C-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the Community Development Advisory Commission. (Ord.
33-19, 7-15-2019)
2-5C-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commission is to provide for citizen participation in the
development and evaluation of the City's Community Development Block Grant
(CDBG) program. (Ord. 33-19, 7-15-2019)
2-5C-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The commission may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as may be necessary and which are not in conflict with this Code or
the Iowa Code. (Ord. 33-19, 7-15-2019)
2-5C-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the City govern the commission in all its operations. (Ord. 33-19, 7-15-
2019)
2-5C-5: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Composition: The commission comprises nine (9) residents of the City,
appointed by the City Council.
   B.   Qualifications:
      1.   Four (4) members must be residents of census tracts and block groups
where at least fifty one percent (51%) of the residents are low/moderate income
persons as determined by the United States Department of Commerce, Bureau of
the Census.
      2.   Four (4) members must be residents of the community at-large.
      3.   One member must be appointed by and from the membership of the
Housing Commission, with City Council approval. (Ord. 33-19, 7-15-2019; amd.
Ord. 29-24, 6-17-2024)
2-5C-6: OATH:
Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an oath of office
at the first meeting of the commission following the appointment or at the City
Clerk's Office any time prior to the first meeting of the commission. (Ord. 33-
19, 7-15-2019; amd. Ord. 29-24, 6-17-2024)
2-5C-7: TERMS:
The term of office for Commissioners is three (3) years or until such
Commissioner's successor is appointed and qualified, provided, however, that
the term of the cross-representative appointee from the City of Dubuque Housing
Commission must coincide with their term on the Housing Commission. (Ord. 33-
19, 7-15-2019)
2-5C-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original appointments. (Ord. 33-
19, 7-15-2019)
2-5C-9: OFFICERS/ORGANIZATION:
The Commissioners must choose annually a Chairperson and Vice- Chairperson,
each to serve a term of one year. The Chairperson must appoint a Secretary, who
need not be a member of the commission. The Commissioners must fill a vacancy
among its officers for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 33-
19, 7-15-2019)
2-5C-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The commission must meet monthly.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or
at the written request of a majority of the Commissioners.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa Open Meetings Law.
   D.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a Commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
Chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the City Council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   E.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the commission must be filed with the City Council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled City
Council meeting, whichever is later.
   F.   Quorum: Five (5) Commissioners constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the Commissioners present
and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or resolution. (Ord. 33-
19, 7-15-2019; amd. Ord. 29-24, 6-17-2024)
2-5C-11: COMPENSATION:
Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official
commission business within the limits established in the City administrative
policies budget. (Ord. 33-19, 7-15-2019)
2-5C-12: REMOVAL:
Except as provided in subsection
2-5C-10D1 of this article, the City Council may remove any Commissioner for
good cause. (Ord. 33-19, 7-15-2019)
2-5C-13: POWERS:
The commission has the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
   A.   To conduct public hearings in accordance with the minimum standards
established in the CDBG program's Citizen Participation Plan to ensure
meaningful citizen input in the planning, implementation, and assessment of the
CDBG program;
   B.   To provide for and encourage the participation of low/moderate income
persons who reside in designated areas of slum and blight and residents of low/
moderate income neighborhoods, as defined by the City Council, in the planning,
implementation, and assessment of the CDBG program;
   C.   To identify community development needs, particularly the needs of
persons of low/moderate income;
   D.   To serve in an advisory role upon the request of the City Council in
policy decisions regarding funding priorities and program development and
implementation;
   E.   To monitor and evaluate program activities to advise whether identified
community development objectives have been met;
   F.   To undertake public information efforts to educate the citizenry of the
availability of CDBG funded programs and to provide for a greater understanding
of the City's community development efforts;
   G.   To assist in the preparation of the statement of community development
objectives, assess needs, priorities, and projected use of funds, amendments
thereto, and required reports, including but not limited to, the Annual Action
Plan, Consolidated Annual Performance and Evaluation Report, and the five-year
Consolidated Plan;
   H.   To serve in an advisory role to the City Manager in the review of
complaints and grievances received in accordance with the procedures
established in this Code; and,
   I.   To support, upon request, the efforts of the City Council and other
City commissions in the assessment of the general development needs of the
community. (Ord. 33-19, 7-15-2019)
2-5C-14: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE; REVIEW STANDARDS; APPEAL PROCESS:
The grievance procedure for the CDBG program is as follows:
   A.   Any aggrieved person may file a grievance with the City Manager.
   B.   Grievances must contain a concise statement of the grievance and an
explanation of the action desired.
   C.   The City Manager must forward the grievance to the commission within
seven (7) business days of its receipt.
   D.   The commission, within fifteen (15) working days of the receipt of the
grievance, must set a time for a hearing. The complainant must be notified in
writing of the time and place of the hearing. If a grievance is resolved prior
to the date of the hearing, the aggrieved party must request in writing that
the grievance be withdrawn.
   E.   The commission must conduct a hearing to review the grievance. The
grievant may appear in person, by agent, or by attorney. All persons wishing to
appear before the commission have an opportunity to be heard regarding the
grievance. Minutes must be kept of the proceedings of the hearing.
   F.   The commission must forward its recommendation, in writing, to the City
Manager within ten (10) business days following the hearing.
   G.   The City Manager must receive and review the recommendation of the
commission and respond to the grievant within ten (10) business days of the
receipt of the recommendation. The commission must be advised of the action of
the City Manager.
   H.   The recommendations of the commission must comply with the regulations
established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for the
CDBG program under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974
and this Code.
   I.   If the grievant is unsatisfied with the response of the City Manager,
an appeal may be filed with the City Clerk. The appeal must be forwarded by the
City Clerk to the City Council. The City Council may, at its discretion, hold a
hearing to consider the concerns of the grievant.
   J.   Upon review of the appeal, the City Council must:
      1.   Accept the response of the City Manager;
      2.   Modify the response of the City Manager; or,
      3.   Return the grievance to the City Manager for further review.
If the outcome of such appeal is unsatisfactory, the complainant may file a
written appeal with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. (Ord.
33-19, 7-15-2019)
2-5C-15: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATIONS:
The commission must operate in accordance with the standards and procedures set
forth in the City's CDBG program's Citizen Participation Plan. (Ord. 33-19, 7-
15-2019)
ARTICLE D. TRUST FUND ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-5D-1: Trust Fund Established
2-5D-2: Purpose
2-5D-3: Financial Management
2-5D-4: Trust Fund Administration
2-5D-5: Funding
2-5D-6: Housing Trust Fund Advisory Committee
2-5D-7: Iowa Finance Authority State Housing Trust Fund Program
2-5D-1: TRUST FUND ESTABLISHED:
Subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, a fund to be known as the city
of Dubuque housing trust fund (trust fund) is hereby established for the
collection and disbursement of funds to meet the housing needs of the city's
low and moderate income residents. (2007 Code § 26-31)
2-5D-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the trust fund shall be to collect and disburse revenue to meet
the housing needs of low and moderate income households as defined in the city
of Dubuque comprehensive housing affordability strategy (CHAS). This shall in
no way construe that these funds will be used to finance housing permanently
owned by the city. The trust fund, as a permanent and revolving source of
revenue, will provide for loans and grants to finance projects including, but
not limited to, the acquisition, rehabilitation and/or new construction of
rental and owner occupied housing, as well as to provide money for relocation
assistance to income qualified displaced tenants. (2007 Code § 26-32)
2-5D-3: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT:
The financial management of the trust fund shall be the responsibility of the
city manager, whose responsibilities shall include, but not be limited to, the
following: a) holding trust revenue for those purposes defined by the housing
commission and approved by the city council; b) disbursing funds for the
housing commission as appropriated in the annual operating budget approved by
the city council; and c) performing any other function needed to ensure the
sound financial management of and accountability for trust fund revenues and
expenditures. (2007 Code § 26-33)
2-5D-4: TRUST FUND ADMINISTRATION:
The trust fund shall be administered by the city manager. The city manager
shall be responsible for, but not limited to, the following: a) marketing the
program of the trust fund; b) soliciting applications; c) packaging
applications for housing commission review; d) coordinating legal or financial
assistance to the housing commission; e) ensuring public participation; f)
pursuing new revenue sources; g) overseeing and accounting for funded projects;
h) coordinating with the city departments and agencies; i) collecting and
servicing loans made by the trust fund; j) preparing periodic reports for the
housing commission and city council; and k) general day to day operation of the
fund. (2007 Code § 26-34)
2-5D-5: FUNDING:
The housing commission shall be responsible for recommending sources of funding
and revenues for the trust fund to the city manager and/or city council.
As funds and revenues become available, the activities of the trust fund shall
be carried out as specified in this article. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
however, nothing herein shall require or impose any obligation upon the city
council to provide any funds for any of the purposes of this article. (2007
Code § 26-35)
2-5D-6: HOUSING TRUST FUND ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created: There is hereby created the housing trust fund
advisory committee.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the committee is to recommend policy direction
and oversight to the administration and operation of the housing trust fund by
soliciting funding, developing bylaws to govern the committee's operations, and
developing policies and guidelines for acquisition and distribution of funds.
Such solicitations, bylaws, policies, and guidelines must be approved by the
housing commission and submitted to the city council for its approval.
   C.   Internal Organization And Rules: The committee may adopt rules and
regulations to govern its organizational procedures as may be necessary and
which are not in conflict with this code or the Iowa Code.
   D.   Procedures For Operation: All administrative, personnel, accounting,
budgetary, and procurement policies of the city govern the committee in all its
operations.
   E.   Membership:
      1.   The committee comprises five (5) residents of the city, appointed by
the city council.
      2.   Special qualifications:
         a.   Two (2) of the members must be appointed by the committee, with
city council approval, to serve on the City of Dubuque housing commission.
         b.   Three (3) members of the public must be elected specifically on
the basis of experience in real estate development, banking, finance,
accounting, funds management, or other related areas of expertise.
   F.   Oath: Each person, upon appointment to the committee, must execute an
oath of office at the first meeting of the committee following the appointment
or at the city clerk's office any time prior to the first meeting of the
committee.
   G.   Terms: The term of office for members of the committee is three (3)
years or until such member's successor is appointed and qualified. The terms of
the cross representative appointees from the housing commission must coincide
with their terms on the housing commission.
   H.   Vacancies: Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original
appointments.
   I.   Officers; Organization: The housing commission must choose annually a
chairperson and vice chairperson, each to serve a term of one year. The
chairperson must appoint a secretary, who need not be a member of the
committee. The committee must fill a vacancy among its officers for the
remainder of the officer's unexpired term.
   J.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The committee must meet at least two (2) times per
year; one meeting must be a public hearing regarding submission of the Iowa
finance authority application.
      2.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairperson
or at the written request of a majority of the members.
      3.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance
with the Iowa open meetings law.
      4.   Attendance:
         a.   In the event a member of the committee has been absent for three
(3) or more consecutive meetings of the committee, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the committee to recommend to the
city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement appointed.
         b.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
      5.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings
of the committee must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working
days after approval by the committee, or by the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting, whichever is later.
      6.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the committee constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the members
present and voting is necessary for the adoption of any resolution.
   K.   Compensation: Members serve without compensation, provided that they
may receive reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on
official committee business within the limits established in the city
administrative policies and budget.
   L.   Removal: Except as provided in subsection J4a of this section, the city
council may remove any member for good cause.
   M.   Powers: The committee has the following powers, duties, and
responsibilities:
      1.   To coordinate an effective mechanism for public participation in the
operation of the trust fund;
      2.   To recommend projects to the housing commission for funding
approval; and
      3.   To engage in activities providing for the efficient use of the trust
fund. (Ord. 51-15, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 34-24, 6-17-2024)
2-5D-7: IOWA FINANCE AUTHORITY STATE HOUSING TRUST FUND PROGRAM:
   A.   Application For Funds: For purposes of the Iowa finance authority state
housing trust fund, the housing trust fund advisory committee shall have the
authority to make application to the Iowa finance authority for funds from the
local housing trust fund program and the project based housing program and to
direct, without further approval of any city officer or the city council, how
such funds shall be used in accordance with the Iowa finance authority trust
fund allocation plan.
   B.   Maintenance Of Funds: Funds received by the city from the Iowa finance
authority state housing trust fund shall be maintained by the city in a
separate account and subject to the direction of the housing trust fund
advisory committee.
   C.   Local Matching Funds: For purposes of providing required local matching
funds for applications to the Iowa finance authority state housing trust fund,
the housing trust fund advisory committee shall have the final authority to
direct how such funds shall be used in accordance with the Iowa finance
authority trust fund allocation plan. Allocation of local matching funds to the
housing trust fund advisory committee shall be made by decision of the city
council. (2007 Code § 26-37)
CHAPTER 6
RESILIENT COMMUNITY ADVISORY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Commission Created
2-6-2: Purpose
2-6-3: Internal Organization And Rules
2-6-4: Procedures For Operation
2-6-5: Membership
2-6-6: Oath
2-6-7: Terms
2-6-8: Vacancies
2-6-9: Officers/Organization
2-6-10: Meetings
2-6-11: Compensation
2-6-12: Removal
2-6-13: Powers
2-6-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the resilient community advisory commission. (Ord. 32-
16, 7-5-2016)
2-6-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commission is to advise on city policies and practices to
assure resilient outcomes; facilitate the ability to adapt to factors
influencing the social/cultural, economic and environmental well being of the
community; prevent, prepare for, and recover from adverse vulnerabilities and
change through coordination, data analysis, evaluation and citizen engagement;
and to create a viable, livable and equitable community. (Ord. 32-16, 7-5-2016)
2-6-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The commission may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as may be necessary and which are not in conflict with this code or
the Iowa Code. (Ord. 32-16, 7-5-2016)
2-6-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the city govern the commission in all its operations. (Ord. 32-16, 7-5-2016)
2-6-5: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Composition: The commission comprises nine (9) residents of the city,
appointed by the city council.
   B.   Qualifications: Efforts should be taken to balance the composition of
the commission as follows:
      1.   Members must be able to think systemically and analyze data in order
to meet the stated purpose of the commission.
      2.   Members' interest and/or expertise must represent the three (3)
pillars of the sustainable Dubuque model: economic prosperity, environmental
integrity, and social/cultural vibrancy.
      3.   Members should represent a wide range of sectors within the
community, including business, neighborhoods, nonprofit, and educational
institutions.
      4.   Three (3) or more members should also hold positions on one of the
following commissions: arts and cultural advisory commission, Catfish Creek
Watershed management authority, community development advisory commission,
historic preservation commission, housing commission, human rights commission,
long range planning advisory commission, parks and recreation advisory
commission, transit advisory commission, and/or zoning advisory commission.
      5.   Members should represent the socioeconomic, geographic, and
demographic diversity of the community, including youth representation. (Ord.
32-16, 7-5-2016)
2-6-6: OATH:
Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an oath of office
at the first meeting of the commission following the appointment or at the city
clerk's office any time prior to the first meeting of the commission. (Ord. 32-
16, 7-5-2016; amd. Ord. 38-24, 6-17-2024)
2-6-7: TERMS:
The term of office for commissioners is three (3) years or until such
commissioner's successor is appointed and qualified. The terms of the cross
representatives appointed from the arts and cultural affairs advisory
commission, Catfish Creek Watershed management authority, community development
advisory commission, historic preservation commission, housing commission,
human rights commission, long range planning advisory commission, park and
recreation advisory commission, transit advisory board, and/or zoning advisory
commission must coincide with their terms on the resilient community advisory
commission. (Ord. 1-17, 1-3-2017; amd. Ord. 38-24, 6-17-2024)
2-6-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original appointments. (Ord. 32-
16, 7-5-2016)
2-6-9: OFFICERS/ORGANIZATION:
The commissioners must choose annually a chairperson and vice chairperson, each
to serve a term of one year. The chairperson must appoint a secretary, who need
not be a member of the commission. The commissioners must fill a vacancy among
the officers for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 32-16, 7-
5-2016)
2-6-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The commission generally meets monthly. When there is
no business, there is no obligation to meet.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairperson or
at the written request of a majority of the commissioners.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa open meetings law.
   D.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   E.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the commission must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting, whichever is later.
   F.   Quorum: Five (5) commissioners constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the commissioners present
and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or resolution. (Ord. 32-
16, 7-5-2016; amd. Ord. 42-21, 11-15-2021; Ord. 38-24, 6-17-2024)
2-6-11: COMPENSATION:
Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official
commission business within the limits established in the city administrative
policies budget. (Ord. 32-16, 7-5-2016)
2-6-12: REMOVAL:
Except as provided in subsection
2-6-10D1 of this chapter, the city council may remove any commissioner for good
cause. (Ord. 32-16, 7-5-2016)
2-6-13: POWERS:
The commission has the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
   A.   To review research and data in order to provide input on
reidentification, prevention, and plans for potential economic, environmental,
and social/cultural vulnerabilities.
   B.   To review plans for long term prevention, preparedness, and recovery
efforts.
   C.   To review policy and program recommendations to the city council in
order to influence resilient outcomes for the community.
   D.   To provide comment to the city council on the allocation of budgeted
city funding to achieve adopted resiliency goals.
   E.   To educate and engage the public on commission priorities.
   F.   To provide input on and review strategies to address identified
vulnerabilities in collaboration with city staff, other city commissions and
community partners.
   G.   To review and make recommendations regarding sustainable Dubuque
community grant allocations.
   H.   To respect the policy making authority of the city council, the city
manager's responsibilities to implement the goals and priorities the council
establishes (council manager form of government) and the responsibility of city
staff to report to the city manager.
   I.   To ensure coordination and communication with other commissions. (Ord.
32-16, 7-5-2016)
CHAPTER 7
BOARD OF LIBRARY TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-7-1: Board Created
2-7-2: Purpose
2-7-3: Internal Organization And Rules
2-7-4: Procedures For Operation
2-7-5: Membership
2-7-6: Oath
2-7-7: Terms
2-7-8: Vacancies
2-7-9: Officers/Organization
2-7-10: Meetings
2-7-11: Compensation
2-7-12: Removal
2-7-13: Powers
2-7-14: Charge Of Building, Donations
2-7-15: Annual Reports
2-7-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created the board of library trustees. (Ord. 37-16, 8-1-2016)
2-7-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the board is to control and direct the Carnegie- Stout Public
Library. (Ord. 37-16, 8-1-2016)
2-7-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The board may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as outlined in the board of trustees bylaws, which are not in
conflict with this code of ordinances or the Iowa Code. (Ord. 37-16, 8-1-2016)
2-7-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
Except where the board's operations are governed by the Iowa Code, the board
may adopt policies to govern its operation. (Ord. 37-16, 8-1-2016)
2-7-5: MEMBERSHIP:
The board comprises seven (7) residents of the city, appointed by city council.
(Ord. 37-16, 8-1-2016; amd. Ord. 46-22, 12-19-2022; Ord. 24-24, 6-17-2024)
2-7-6: OATH:
Each person, upon selection to the board, must execute an oath of office at the
first meeting of the board following the selection or at the city clerk's
office any time prior to the first meeting of the board. (Ord. 37-16, 8-1-2016;
amd. Ord. 24-24, 6-17-2024)
2-7-7: TERMS:
The term of office for members of the board is four (4) years or until such
member's successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 37-16, 8-1-2016)
2-7-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original appointments. (Ord. 37-
16, 8-1-2016)
2-7-9: OFFICERS/ORGANIZATION:
The board must choose annually a chairperson and vice chairperson, each to
serve a term of one year. The chairperson must appoint a secretary, who need
not be a member of the commission. The board must fill a vacancy among its
officers for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 37-16, 8-1-
2016; amd. Ord. 24-24, 6-17-2024)
2-7-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The board must meet not less than what is required by
the State Library Of Iowa standards for accreditation.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairperson or
at the written request of a majority of the members.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa open meetings law.
   D.   Attendance:
      1.   The board must declare the office of a trustee vacant when the
trustee is removed from the library board or the unexcused absence from six (6)
consecutive regular meetings.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   E.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the board must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the board.
   F.   Quorum: Four (4) members of the board constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the members
present and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or resolution.
(Ord. 37-16, 8-1-2016; amd. Ord. 24-24, 6-17-2024)
2-7-11: COMPENSATION:
Members serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official board
business within the limits established in the city administrative policies and
budget. (Ord. 37-16, 8-1-2016)
2-7-12: REMOVAL:
The mayor may remove any member for cause upon written charges and after a
public hearing. (Ord. 37-16, 8-1-2016)
2-7-13: POWERS:
The board has the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
   A.   To have charge, control, and supervision of the public library, its
appurtenances and fixtures, and rooms containing the same, directing and
controlling all the affairs of such library;
   B.   To employ a librarian, such assistants, and employees as may be
necessary for the proper management of said library, and fix their
compensation; but, prior to such employment, the compensation of such
librarian, assistants, and employees shall be fixed for the term of employment
by a majority of the members of said board voting in favor thereof;
   C.   To remove such librarian, assistants, or employees by a vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of such board for good cause;
   D.   To select and make purchases of print and nonprint materials for the
collection, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and supplies for such library;
   E.   To authorize the use of such library by nonresidents of the city and to
fix charges therefor;
   F.   To make, adopt, amend, modify, or repeal bylaws, rules, and regulations
not inconsistent with law, for the care, use, government, and management of
such library and the business of said board, fixing and enforcing penalties for
the violation thereof;
   G.   To have exclusive control of the expenditures of all taxes levied for
library purposes as provided by law, and of the expenditure of all monies
available by gift or otherwise, for the erection of library buildings and of
all other monies belonging to the library fund; and
   H.   To contract with the trustees of the township or the Dubuque County
board of supervisors or of adjacent townships or counties, or with the trustees
or governing bodies of neighboring towns or cities not having library
facilities for the public, to loan the books of said library, either singly or
in groups, upon such terms as may be agreed upon in such contract. (Ord. 37-16,
8-1-2016)
2-7-14: CHARGE OF BUILDING, DONATIONS:
The board has charge and control of the Carnegie-Stout Public Library building
and all gifts and donations to the city for library purposes, and sees that the
same are properly preserved for public use. (Ord. 37-16, 8-1-2016)
2-7-15: ANNUAL REPORTS:
The board must each year make a report to the city council for the year ending
December 31, giving a statement of the condition of the library, the number of
books added thereto, the number circulated, the number not returned or lost,
the amount of fines collected, and the amount of money expended in the
maintenance thereof during such year, together with such other information as
may be deemed important. (Ord. 37-16, 8-1-2016)
CHAPTER 8
ARTS AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS ADVISORY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-8-1: Commission Created
2-8-2: Purpose
2-8-3: Internal Organization And Rules
2-8-4: Procedures For Operation
2-8-5: Membership
2-8-6: Oath
2-8-7: Terms
2-8-8: Vacancies
2-8-9: Officers/Organization
2-8-10: Meetings
2-8-11: Compensation
2-8-12: Removal
2-8-13: Powers
2-8-14: Cooperation With Other Agencies
2-8-15: Solicitation And Acceptance Of Donations
2-8-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the arts and cultural affairs advisory commission.
(Ord. 59-14, 10-6-2014)
2-8-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commission is to build the community through arts and
cultural programs by developing visibility, funding, audiences, information,
and partnerships. The commission plans, promotes, and encourages programs to
further public awareness of, accessibility to, participation in, and support
for the artistic and cultural development of the city and makes recommendations
to the city council regarding the establishment of arts and cultural policies
and programs, the expenditure of budgeted funds on arts and cultural
activities, and the implementation of programs. (Ord. 59-14, 10-6-2014)
2-8-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The commission may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as may be necessary and which are not in conflict with this code or
the Iowa Code. (Ord. 59-14, 10-6-2014)
2-8-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the city govern the commission in all its operations. (Ord. 59-14, 10-6-
2014)
2-8-5: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The commission comprises seven (7) residents of the city, appointed by
the city council.
   B.   Special qualifications:
      1.   Four (4) members must have significant knowledge and demonstrate
interest in one or more areas of the arts including music, dance, literature,
visual arts, theater, folk arts, media arts, design, or arts education.
      2.   Two (2) members must be from the business and professional
community, one of whom lives or works in the cultural and entertainment
district.
      3.   One member must be at large who lives or works outside the cultural
and entertainment district. (Ord. 59-14, 10-6-2014)
2-8-6: OATH:
Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an oath of office
at the first meeting of the commission following the appointment or at the city
clerk's office any time prior to the first meeting of the commission. (Ord. 59-
14, 10-6-2014; amd. Ord. 23-24, 6-17-2024)
2-8-7: TERMS:
The term of office for commissioners is three (3) years or until such
commissioner's successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 59-14, 10-6-2014;
amd. Ord. 5-23, 2-10-2023; Ord. 23-24, 6-17-2024)
2-8-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original appointments. (Ord. 59-
14, 10-6-2014)
2-8-9: OFFICERS/ORGANIZATION:
The commissioners must choose annually a chairperson and vice chairperson, each
to serve a term of one year. The chairperson must appoint a secretary, who need
not be a member of the commission. The commissioners must fill a vacancy among
its officers for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 59-14,
10-6-2014)
2-8-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The commission must meet monthly.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairperson or
at the written request of a majority of the commissioners.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa open meetings law.
   D.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   E.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the commission must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting, whichever is later.
   F.   Quorum: Four (4) commissioners constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the commissioners present
and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or resolution. (Ord. 59-
14, 10-6-2014; amd. Ord. 55-19, 12-16-2019; Ord. 23-24, 6-17-2024)
2-8-11: COMPENSATION:
Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official
commission business within the limits established in the city administrative
policies and budget. (Ord. 59-14, 10-6-2014)
2-8-12: REMOVAL:
Except as provided in subsection
2-8-10D1 of this chapter, the city council may remove any commissioner for good
cause. (Ord. 31-15, 5-18-2015)
2-8-13: POWERS:
The commission has the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
   A.   To promote, educate, and create awareness for arts and cultural
activities;
   B.   To develop and increase the market for arts and cultural activities;
   C.   To facilitate and convene partnerships for arts and cultural
activities;
   D.   To develop funding options and allocate budgeted funding for arts and
cultural activities;
   E.   To act in an advisory capacity to the city council in all matters
pertaining to the arts and cultural environment;
   F.   To make recommendations to the city council on the allocation of
budgeted city funding for arts programs and services;
   G.   To recommend applications and solicitations for grants, gifts, and
donations from individuals, groups, organizations, and agencies, both private
and public, for any purpose consistent with the purposes of the commission;
   H.   To make recommendations regarding city sponsorship of public programs
to further the development of public awareness of and accessibility to arts and
culture programs and activities;
   I.   To work with area organizations on broad community issues in which a
cultural perspective is relevant and desirable; and
   J.   To engage in comprehensive planning for the cultural development of the
city. (Ord. 59-14, 10-6-2014)
2-8-14: COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES:
The commission cooperates with other arts and culture groups interested in the
promotion and implementation of arts and cultural activities which are in the
best interest of the city. (Ord. 59-14, 10-6-2014)
2-8-15: SOLICITATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF DONATIONS:
The commission may solicit and otherwise accept donations and gifts of money,
personal and real property, and personal services on behalf of the city. All
such donations and gifts received become the property of the city for the
general use or support of arts and cultural programs as determined by the city
council unless such items have been designated by the donor for specific
purposes. (Ord. 59-14, 10-6-2014)
CHAPTER 9
SISTER CITY RELATIONSHIPS ADVISORY COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 46-17, 12-18-2017)
CHAPTER 10
SAFE COMMUNITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
(Rep. by Ord. 65-12, 12-17-2012)
CHAPTER 11
CABLE TELEVISION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-11-1: Commission Created
2-11-2: Purpose
2-11-3: Internal Organization And Rules
2-11-4: Procedures For Operation
2-11-5: Membership
2-11-6: Oath
2-11-7: Terms
2-11-8: Vacancies
2-11-9: Officers/Organization
2-11-10: Meetings
2-11-11: Compensation
2-11-12: Removal
2-11-13: Powers
2-11-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the cable television commission. (Ord. 50-15, 8-3-2015;
amd. Ord. 13-20, 3-16-2020)
2-11-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commission is:
   A.   To develop, in respect to community programming, policies that will
govern:
      1.   The use and protection of equipment and facilities;
      2.   The priorities and scheduling for use of channel time; and
      3.   Other matters pertaining to community programming or cable services
in Dubuque which may arise.
   B.   To develop policies and procedures regarding the public community
programming channels that will promote its nondiscriminatory, first come, first
served and equitable use in conformity with all applicable regulations and
requirements and limit such use to residents of Dubuque and their own
productions.
   C.   To encourage interest in and development of decidedly local community
programming.
   D.   To encourage cooperation and cordial relations between community
programmers, cable subscribers, and the local cable manager and the local cable
manager's staff.
   E.   To identify and support organizations interested in the channels
reserved for public, education, and government programming.
   F.   To advise the following:
      1.   The city manager or the city manager's designee (collectively "the
city manager") on matters relating to community programming; and
      2.   The city council on expenditure of any funds designated by a
franchise for PEG equipment and facilities.
   G.   To promulgate and administer through the city manager all policies,
rules, and procedures relating to community programming.
   H.   To keep abreast of developments in cable technologies, services, and
programming.
   I.   To evaluate its own proceedings and actions and all community
programming and cable related activities. (Ord. 50-15, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 13-
20, 3-16-2020)
2-11-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The commission may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as may be necessary and which are not in conflict with this code or
the Iowa Code. (Ord. 50-15, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 13-20, 3-16-2020)
2-11-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the city govern the commission in all its operations. (Ord. 50-15, 8-3-2015;
amd. Ord. 13-20, 3-16-2020)
2-11-5: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The commission comprises five (5) residents of the city, appointed by
the city council.
   B.   Special Qualifications: In its appointments, the city council will
endeavor to achieve a broad representation of the community and public
interests which can take advantage of dedicated channels to benefit the
residents of the city of Dubuque and to develop a commission versed and
competent in telecommunication administration, finances, and regulation. The
city council will attempt to give preference to applicants who are actively
interested in promoting community cable programming who possess, or are willing
to acquire, video production background, and who will relate to the spectrum of
informational and cultural needs of cable viewers of the city of Dubuque and
applicants who possess professional or experiential backgrounds in law,
finances, administration, public relations, or telecommunication technologies.
(Ord. 50-15, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 13-20, 3-16-2020; Ord. 26-24, 6-17-2024)
2-11-6: OATH:
Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an oath of office
at the first meeting of the commission following the appointment or at the city
clerk's office any time prior to the first meeting of the commission. (Ord. 50-
15, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 13-20, 3-16-2020; Ord. 26-24, 6-17-2024)
2-11-7: TERMS:
The term of office for commissioners is three (3) years or until such
commissioner's successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 50-15, 8-3-2015;
amd. Ord. 13-20, 3-16-2020)
2-11-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original appointments. (Ord. 50-
15, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 13-20, 3-16-2020)
2-11-9: OFFICERS/ORGANIZATION:
The commissioners must choose annually a chairperson and vice chairperson, each
to serve a term of one year. The chairperson must appoint a secretary, who need
not be a member of the commission. The commissioners must fill a vacancy among
its officers for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 50-15, 8-
3-2015; amd. Ord. 13-20, 3-16-2020)
2-11-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meetings: The commission shall meet as needed. Special meetings may be
called by the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the
commissioners.
   B.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa open meetings law.
   C.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   D.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the commission must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting, whichever is later.
   E.   Quorum: Three (3) commissioners constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the commissioners present
and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or resolution. (Ord. 50-
15, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 13-20, 3-16-2020; Ord. 26-24, 6-17-2024)
2-11-11: COMPENSATION:
Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official
commission business within the limits established in the city administrative
policies and budget. (Ord. 50-15, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 13-20, 3-16-2020)
2-11-12: REMOVAL:
Except as provided in subsection
2-11-10C1 of this chapter, the city council may remove any commissioner for
good cause. (Ord. 50-15, 8-3-2015; amd. Ord. 13-20, 3-16-2020)
2-11-13: POWERS:
The commission shall have the power, duty, and responsibility to assure that
cable channels, equipment, and resources dedicated and reserved for community
programming are used effectively, efficiently, and economically to afford the
community and individuals of the city of Dubuque the opportunity to express
opinions and provide information to cable users, and that such programming is
characterized by appropriateness, quality, and continuity. (Ord. 50-15, 8-3-
2015; amd. Ord. 13-20, 3-16-2020)
TITLE 3
REVENUE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
PROPERTY TAX
SECTION:
3-1-1: Partial Exemption From Property Taxation
3-1-1: PARTIAL EXEMPTION FROM PROPERTY TAXATION:
   A.   Scope; Applicability: Pursuant to chapter 427B of the code of Iowa, a
partial exemption from property taxation of the actual value added to the
industrial real estate by the new construction of industrial real estate,
research service facilities, warehouses, distribution centers and the
acquisition of or improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real
estate pursuant to section 427A.1(1)(e) of the code of Iowa, shall be
conditioned as follows:
      1.   "New construction", as referred to herein, means new buildings and
structures, and includes new buildings and structures which are constructed as
additions to existing buildings and structures. New construction does not
include reconstruction of an existing building or structure which does not
constitute complete replacement of an existing building or refitting of an
existing building or structure unless the reconstruction of an existing
building or structure is required due to economic obsolescence and the
reconstruction is necessary to implement recognized industry standards for the
manufacturing and processing of specific products and the reconstruction is
required for the owner of the building or structure to continue to
competitively manufacture or process those products, which determination shall
receive prior approval from the city council upon the recommendation of the
Iowa development commission.
      2.   The exemption shall also apply to new machinery and equipment
assessed as real estate pursuant to section 427A.1, subsection 1, paragraph e,
of the code of Iowa, unless the machinery or equipment is part of the normal
replacement or operating process to maintain or expand the existing operational
status.
      3.   "Research service facilities" means a building or group of buildings
devoted primarily to research and development activities, including, but not
limited to, the design and production or manufacture of prototype products for
experimental use, and corporate research services which do not have a primary
purpose of providing on site services to the public.
      4.   "Warehouse" means a building or structure used as public warehouse
for the storage of goods pursuant to chapter 554, article 7 of the code of
Iowa, except that it does not mean a building or structure used primarily to
store raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at retail.
      5.   "Distribution center" means a building or structure used primarily
for the storage of goods which are intended for subsequent shipment to retail
outlets. Distribution center does not mean a building or structure used
primarily to store raw agricultural products, used primarily by a manufacturer
to store goods to be used in the manufacturing process, used primarily for the
storage of petroleum products, or used for the retail sale of goods.
      6.   A property tax exemption under this section shall not be granted if
the property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property
tax exemption authorized by law.
   B.   Application, Information; Prior Approval Of New Construction Proposals:
      1.   An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual
value added for which an exemption is claimed. The application for exemption
shall be filed by the owner of the property with the local assessor by February
1 of the assessment year in which the value added is first assessed for
taxation. Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
director of revenue of the state of Iowa and shall contain information
pertaining to the nature of the improvement, its cost and other information
deemed necessary by the said director.
      2.   A person may submit a proposal to the city council to receive prior
approval for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. The city
council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for new
construction if the new construction is in conformance with the zoning plans
for the city. The prior approval ordinance shall not be enacted until not less
than thirty (30) days after a public hearing held in accordance with section
362.3 of the code of Iowa. Prior approval does not entitle the owner to
exemption from taxation until the new construction has been completed and found
to be qualified real estate. However, if the tax exemption for new construction
is not approved, the person may submit an amended proposal to the city council
to approve or reject.
   C.   Amount Of Exemption:
      1.   The actual value added to industrial real estate for the reasons
specified in this section is eligible to receive a partial exemption from
taxation for a period of five (5) years. However, if property ceases to be
classified as industrial real estate or ceases to be used as a research service
facility or a warehouse or distribution center, the partial exemption for the
value added shall not be allowed for subsequent assessment years. "Actual value
added", as used in this section, means the actual value added as of the first
of the year for which the exemption is received, except that "actual value
added by improvements to machinery and equipment" means the actual value as
determined by the assessor as of January 1 of each year for which the exemption
is received. The amount of actual value added which is eligible to be exempt
from taxation shall be as follows:
 
For the first year  75 percent
For the second year 60 percent
For the third year  45 percent
For the fourth year 30 percent
For the fifth year  15 percent
 
      2.   However, the granting of the exemption under this section for new
construction constituting complete replacement of an existing building or
structure shall not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate
being reduced below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the
start of the new construction added.
   D.   Duration, Repeal Of Exemption: The partial exemption shall be available
until such time as this section is repealed by the city council. When, in the
determination of the city council, continuation of the exemption granted in
this section ceases to be of benefit to the city, the city council may repeal
this section, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their
expiration. (Ord. 55-08, 9-2-2008)
CHAPTER 2
REVITALIZATION AREAS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Dubuque Urban Revitalization Area
3-2-3: Kunkel And Associates
3-2-4: Lange Estate
3-2-5: 210 Jones Street
3-2-6: Alta Vista
3-2-7: Radford Road
3-2-8: Bies Drive
3-2-9: Plaza Drive
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the upgrading of neighborhoods by
designating revitalization areas in the City in order that the provision of
providing exemptions from taxation for qualified real estate assessed as
residential properties in those areas is available for individual properties
where improvements have been made and to authorize the issuance of revenue
bonds for projects consistent with the revitalization plan for the designated
revitalization area. (2007 Code § 43-31)
3-2-2: DUBUQUE URBAN REVITALIZATION AREA:
   A.   The area hereinafter described is hereby designated as the Dubuque
urban revitalization area in accordance with the Code of Iowa:
   Beginning at its point of origin at the southwest corner of Central Avenue
and Kaufmann Avenue, then proceeding westerly along Kaufmann Avenue to its
intersection with Kane Street, then proceeding northwesterly along Kane Street
to its intersection with Primrose Street, then proceeding northerly along
Primrose Street to its intersection with Burlington Avenue, then proceeding
northwesterly along Burlington Avenue to its intersection with National Street,
then proceeding northeasterly along National Street to its intersection with
Davenport Street, then proceeding northwesterly along Davenport Street to its
intersection with Stoltz Street, then proceeding northeasterly along Stoltz
Street to its intersection with Lemon Street, then proceeding northwesterly
along Lemon Street to its intersection with 32nd Street, then proceeding
northeasterly along 32nd Street to its intersection with Central Avenue/Highway
52, then proceeding northwesterly along Central Avenue/Highway 52 to its
intersection with Aquin Street, then proceeding northeasterly along Aquin
Street to its intersection with Jackson Street, then proceeding southeasterly
along Jackson Street to its intersection with West 32nd Street, then proceeding
northeasterly along West 32nd Street until it becomes Peru Road, then
proceeding northeasterly along Peru Road to its intersection with Sheridan
Road, then proceeding easterly then southerly along Sheridan Road to its
intersection with Davis Street, then proceeding easterly along Davis Street to
its intersection with Windsor Avenue, then proceeding southerly along Windsor
Avenue to its intersection with Hennepin Street, then proceeding easterly along
Hennepin Street to its intersection with Stafford Street, then proceeding
southerly along Stafford Street to its intersection with Pleasant Street, then
proceeding easterly along Pleasant Street to its intersection with Viola
Street, then proceeding northerly along Viola Street to its intersection with
Eagle Street, then proceeding easterly then southeasterly along Eagle Street to
its intersection with Thomas Place, then proceeding northeasterly along Thomas
Place to its intersection with Ascension Street, then proceeding southeasterly
along Ascension Street to its intersection with Prescott Street, then
proceeding northeasterly along Prescott Street to its intersection with
Roosevelt Street, then proceeding southeasterly along Roosevelt Street to its
intersection with Lincoln Avenue, then proceeding northeasterly then easterly
along Lincoln Avenue to its intersection with the Iowa Chicago and Eastern
Railroad right of way, then proceeding southwesterly along the Iowa Chicago and
Eastern Railroad right of way to its intersection with the north property line
of the residential property at 2387 Garfield Avenue, then proceeding
southeasterly along the north property line of the residential property at 2387
Garfield Avenue to its intersection with Garfield Avenue, then proceeding
northeasterly along Garfield Avenue to its intersection with Hawthorne Street,
then proceeding southeasterly along Hawthorne Street to its intersection with
the alley between Garfield Avenue and Kerper Boulevard, then proceeding
southwesterly along the alley between Garfield Avenue and Kerper Boulevard to
its intersection with the north property line of the residential property at
2675 Kerper Boulevard, then proceeding southeasterly along the north property
line of the residential property at 2675 Kerper Boulevard to its intersection
with Kerper Boulevard, then proceeding southwesterly along Kerper Boulevard to
its intersection with the south property line of the residential property at
2605 Kerper Boulevard, then proceeding northwesterly along the south property
lines of the residential properties at 2605 Kerper Boulevard, 2310 Garfield
Avenue and 2336 Garfield Avenue to the intersection of the Iowa Chicago and
Eastern Railroad right-of-way, then proceeding southwesterly along the Iowa
Chicago and Eastern Railroad right-of-way to its intersection with East 17th
Street, then proceeding westerly along East 17th Street to its intersection
with Elm Street, then proceeding southerly along Elm Street to its intersection
with East 14th Street, then proceeding easterly along East 14th Street to its
intersection with the alley between Elm Street and Pine Street, then proceeding
southerly along the alley between Elm Street and Pine Street to its
intersection with East 12th Street, then proceeding westerly along East 12th
Street to its intersection with the Elm Street Connector, then proceeding
southerly along the Elm Street Connector to its intersection with East 11th
Street, then proceeding westerly along East 11th Street to its intersection
with White Street, then proceeding southerly along White Street to its
intersection with the U.S. Highway 151/61 right-of-way, then proceeding
southerly along the U.S. Highway 151/61 right-of-way to its intersection with
West 1st Street, then proceeding westerly along West 1st Street to its
intersection with Locust Street, then proceeding southerly along Locust Street
to its intersection with Dodge Street, then proceeding westerly along Dodge
Street to its intersection with Grandview Avenue, then proceeding northerly
along Grandview Avenue to its intersection with University Avenue, then
proceeding easterly along University Avenue to its intersection with Walnut
Street, then proceeding northerly along Walnut Street to its intersection with
Loras Boulevard, then proceeding westerly along Loras Boulevard to its
intersection with Wood Street, then proceeding northerly along Wood Street to
its intersection with Rosedale Avenue, then proceeding northeasterly along
Rosedale Avenue to its intersection with West Locust Street, then proceeding
easterly along West Locust Street to its intersection with Foye Street, then
proceeding northerly along Foye Street to its intersection with Merchants Lane,
then proceeding westerly along Merchants Lane to its intersection with Gold
Street, then proceeding northerly along Gold Street to its intersection with
Clarke Drive, then proceeding easterly then southerly along Clarke Drive to its
intersection with Heeb Street, then proceeding southerly along Heeb Street to
its intersection with West 17th Street, then proceeding easterly along West
17th Street to its intersection with Central Avenue, then proceeding northerly
along Central Avenue to its point of origin at the southwest corner of Central
Avenue and Kaufmann Avenue. (Ord. 52-19, 11-18-2019)
3-2-3: KUNKEL AND ASSOCIATES:
   A.   Urban Revitalization Area: The area hereinafter described is hereby
designated as the Kunkel and Associates urban revitalization area in accordance
with the Code of Iowa:
      Lot 6 Block 2 of Dubuque Technology Park in the City of Dubuque, Iowa,
according to the recorded plat thereof.
   B.   Plan Adopted: The Kunkel and Associates urban revitalization plan as
attached hereto is hereby adopted and approved and the properties within said
described area shall be subject to the provisions of said plan.
   C.   Plan On File: The Kunkel and Associates urban revitalization plan shall
hereafter be on file in the City Clerk's Office, City Hall, Dubuque, Iowa.
   D.   Additional Requirements: In order to qualify for the tax abatement
program established in the plan, the property owner must create ten (10) new
full time jobs in the Kunkel and Associates urban revitalization area within
five (5) years of approval of the property owner's application by the City
Council for tax abatement. If the property owner fails to create all such jobs
within such five (5) year period, the property owner must provide a refund of
all taxes abated to the County Treasurer within sixty (60) days after the end
of such five (5) year period for distribution to the Governing Bodies affected
by the abatement of such taxes in the amount of the lost taxes of each such
Governing Body.
   E.   Certification: To assist City in monitoring the job creation
requirement of subsection D of this section, a duly authorized officer of the
property owner shall certify to City the number of full time equivalent jobs
employed at the above described property on the fifth anniversary of the date
of approval of the property owner's application for tax abatement. (Ord. 5-15,
1-20-2015; amd. Ord. 52-19, 11-18-2019)
3-2-4: LANGE ESTATE:
The area hereinafter described is hereby designated as the Lange Estate urban
revitalization area in accordance with the code of Iowa:
   Lot Two of Lange Estate in the County of Dubuque, IA, City of Dubuque, Iowa,
according to the recorded plat thereof.
   (Ord. 12-16, 4-18-2016; amd. Ord. 52-19, 11-18-2019)
3-2-5: 210 JONES STREET:
   A.   The area hereinafter described is hereby designated as the 210 Jones
Street urban revitalization area in accordance with the code of Iowa:
      Lot 1 of city lot 541, lot 2 of city lot 541, city lot 542, lot 1 of lot
2 of city lot 543, lot 2 of lot 2 of city lot 543, lot "A" of "vacated Shields
Street", and, lot 2 of lot "D" of "vacated Shields Street", in the city of
Dubuque, Iowa, according to the United States commissioners' map of the survey
of the town of Dubuque, Iowa, and the recorded plats of said respective
subdivisions.
   B.   The 210 Jones Street urban revitalization plan on file in the city is
hereby adopted and approved and the properties within said described area shall
be subject to the provisions of said plan.
   C.   The 210 Jones Street urban revitalization plan shall hereafter be on
file in the city clerk's office, city hall, Dubuque, Iowa. (Ord. 57-16, 11-7-
2016; amd. Ord. 52-19, 11-18-2019)
3-2-6: ALTA VISTA:
The area hereinafter described is hereby designated as the Alta Vista Urban
Revitalization Area in accordance with the Code of Iowa:
   Church of the Nativity Pl in the County of Dubuque, IA, City of Dubuque,
Iowa, according to the recorded plat thereof. (Ord. 6-19, 1-7-2019; amd. Ord.
50-19, 1-7-2019; Ord. 52-19, 11-18-2019)
3-2-7: RADFORD ROAD:
The area hereinafter described is hereby designated as the Radford Road Urban
Revitalization Area in accordance with the Code of Iowa:
   Lot 1 Wolff Place No 2 in the County of Dubuque, IA, City of Dubuque, Iowa,
according to the recorded plat thereof. (Ord. 5-19, 1-7-2019; amd. Ord. 52-19,
11-18-2019)
3-2-8: BIES DRIVE:
The area hereinafter described is hereby designated as the Bies Drive Urban
Revitalization Area in accordance with the code of Iowa:
   Lot 1 of Roger F. and Kathleen A Klauer Family Place in the County of
Dubuque, Iowa, City of Dubuque, Iowa, according to the recorded plat thereof.
(Ord. 36-22, 11-7-2022)
3-2-9: PLAZA DRIVE:
The area hereinafter described is hereby designated as the Plaza Drive Urban
Revitalization Area in accordance with the code of Iowa:
   Lot 1 of Asbury Plaza No. 21 in the County of Dubuque, Iowa, City of
Dubuque, Iowa, according to the recorded plat thereof. (Ord. 39-22, 11-21-2022;
amd. Ord. 45-22, 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 3
HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Levy
3-3-3: Payment
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
HOTEL AND MOTEL: Any hotel, motel, inn, public lodging house, rooming house or
tourist court, or any place where sleeping accommodations are furnished to
transient guests for rent, whether with or without meals, except sleeping rooms
in dormitories and in memorial unions of all state universities and colleges.
RENTING AND RENT: Shall include any kind of direct or indirect charge for any
room, apartment or sleeping quarters in a hotel or motel. (2007 Code § 43-51)
3-3-2: LEVY:
A tax is hereby imposed upon the gross receipts from the renting of any and all
rooms, apartments or sleeping quarters in any hotel or motel at the rate of
seven percent (7%) of such gross receipts derived from the renting of a room,
apartment or sleeping quarters while rented by the same person for a period of
not more than thirty one (31) consecutive days. (2007 Code § 43-52)
3-3-3: PAYMENT:
Such tax shall be paid as is provided in the code of Iowa. (2007 Code § 43-53)
CHAPTER 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
ARTICLE A. INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
SECTION:
3-4A-1: Issuance Of Bonds; Investigation Fee
3-4A-1: ISSUANCE OF BONDS; INVESTIGATION FEE:
Whenever, and as often as, any corporation shall request the city to finance
any project by issuance of its industrial revenue bonds, such request shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable deposit to cover preliminary expenses of the
city in its investigation of the desirability and feasibility of such
financing. Such payment will be disbursed by the city to cover such expenses
regardless if any such financing is completed, but may be repaid as a project
cost from bond proceeds if and when such bonds are issued. (2007 Code § 15-36)
ARTICLE B. ENTERPRISE ZONE COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 43-14, 6-7-2014)
ARTICLE C. SPECULATIVE SHELL BUILDINGS OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATIONS
AND FOR PROFIT ENTITIES
SECTION:
3-4C-1: Definitions
3-4C-2: Exemption Allowed
3-4C-3: Application For Exemption By Property Owner
3-4C-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions apply:
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION: A. An organization, which meets the
membership requirements of this definition, formed within a city or county or
multicommunity group for one or more of the following purposes:
      1.    To promote, stimulate, develop, and advance the business prosperity
and economic welfare of the community, area, or region and its citizens.
      2.    To encourage and assist the location of new business and industry.
      3.    To rehabilitate and assist existing business and industry.
      4.    To stimulate and assist in the expansion of business activity.
   B.   For the purposes of this definition, a community development
organization must have at least fifteen (15) members with representation from
the following:
      1.    A representative from government at the level or levels
corresponding to the community development organization's area of operation.
      2.    A representative from a private sector lending institution.
      3.    A representative of a community organization in the area.
      4.    A representative of business in the area.
      5.    A representative of private citizens in the community, area, or
region.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: New buildings or structures and includes new buildings or
structures which are constructed as additions to existing buildings or
structures. "New construction" also includes reconstruction or renovation of an
existing building or structure which constitutes complete replacement of an
existing building or structure or refitting of an existing building or
structure, if the reconstruction or renovation of the existing building or
structure is required due to economic obsolescence, if the reconstruction or
renovation is necessary to implement recognized industry standards for the
manufacturing or processing of products, and the reconstruction or renovation
is required in order to competitively manufacture or process products or for
community development organizations or for profit to market a building or
structure as a speculative shell building, which determination must receive
prior approval from the city council of the city.
SPECULATIVE SHELL BUILDING: A building or structure owned and constructed or
reconstructed by a community development organization or a for profit entity
without a tenant or buyer for the purpose of attracting an employer or user
which will complete the building to the employer's or user's specification for
manufacturing, processing, or warehousing the employer's or user's product
line. (Ord. 54-08, 9-2-2008)
3-4C-2: EXEMPTION ALLOWED:
An exemption from property taxation is hereby allowed for new construction of
shell buildings by community development organizations or for profit entities
or the portion of the value added to buildings being reconstructed or renovated
by community development organizations or for profit entities in order to
become speculative shell buildings. The exemption or partial exemption shall be
effective for the assessment year in which the building is first assessed for
property taxation or the assessment year in which the reconstruction or
renovation first adds value and all subsequent years until the property is
leased or sold or until the exemption is terminated by ordinance of the city
council. Eligibility for an exemption as a speculative shell building shall be
determined as of January 1 of the assessment year. If the shell building or any
portion of the shell building is leased or sold, the portion of the shell
building which is leased or sold shall not be entitled to an exemption under
this article for subsequent years. An application shall be filed pursuant to
Iowa Code section 427B.4 for each project for which an exemption is claimed.
Upon the sale of the shell building, the shell building shall be considered new
construction for purposes of Iowa Code section 427B.1 if used for purposes set
forth in said section 427B.1. (Ord. 54-08, 9-2-2008)
3-4C-3: APPLICATION FOR EXEMPTION BY PROPERTY OWNER:
An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value added
for which an exemption is claimed. The application for exemption shall be filed
by the owner of the property with the local assessor by February 1 of the
assessment year in which the value added is first assessed for taxation.
Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the city
treasurer and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of the
improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the director
of revenue. A person may submit a proposal to the city council to receive prior
approval for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. The city
council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for new
construction if the new construction is in conformance with the zoning plans
for the city. The prior approval shall also be subject to the hearing
requirements of Iowa Code section 427B.1. Prior approval does not entitle the
owner to exemption from taxation until the new construction has been completed
and found to be qualified real estate. However, if the tax exemption for new
construction is not approved, the person may submit an amended proposal to the
city council to approve or reject. (Ord. 54-08, 9-2-2008; amd. Ord. 3-20, 1-21-
2020)
ARTICLE D. RESIDENTIAL RELOCATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
SECTION:
3-4D-1: Relocation Assistance Program Established
3-4D-2: Purpose
3-4D-3: Definitions
3-4D-4: Applicability Of Program
3-4D-5: Eligibility For Assistance
3-4D-6: Written Notice Required
3-4D-7: Relocation Assistance
3-4D-8: Appeals
3-4D-9: Procedure For Hearing Appeal
3-4D-10: Violation By Owner
3-4D-11: Funding
3-4D-1: RELOCATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM ESTABLISHED:
The residential relocation assistance program is hereby established for the
provision of benefits to the city's low and moderate income tenants. (2007 Code
§ 26-12)
3-4D-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the program shall be to assist an income qualifying tenant, who
is displaced as a result of economic development activities, with rental
assistance and moving cost payments. (2007 Code § 26-13)
3-4D-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words have the following
meanings:
ANNUAL HOUSEHOLD INCOME: The anticipated total income from all sources received
by all members of a household, including all net income derived from assets,
for the twelve (12) month period following the effective date of initial
determination of income, exclusive of income that is temporary, nonrecurring or
sporadic and exclusive of the following other types of income, as follows:
   A.   Amounts that are specifically for or in reimbursement of the cost of
medical expenses;
   B.   Lump sum additions to household assets, such as inheritances, insurance
payments, capital gains and settlements for personal or property losses;
   C.   Amounts of educational scholarships and amounts paid by the government
to a veteran for education scholarships;
   D.   Hazardous duty pay to a household member in the armed services;
   E.   Income from employment of children under eighteen (18) years of age;
   F.   Payments received for the care of foster children; and
   G.   Amounts specifically excluded by any federal statute from consideration
as income for purposes of determining eligibility for benefits under a category
of assistance programs.
COMPARABLE HOUSING: Housing that is:
   A.   Decent, safe and sanitary;
   B.   Functionally equivalent to the tenant's present housing;
   C.   Available to rent;
   D.   Affordable;
   E.   Reasonably well located with respect to the tenant's place of
employment, public and commercial facilities, schools and shopping;
   F.   Not subject to adverse environmental conditions; and
   G.   Available to all persons regardless of race, religion, sex, family
composition and national origin.
DWELLING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms used or intended for use for human
habitation.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT: Any activity, undertaken by a private or public entity,
for the purpose of furthering business, commerce or transportation, that
results in the loss of an existing dwelling unit. Such activity includes, but
is not limited to, condemnation, demolition, conversion and reconstruction of
existing housing.
OWNER: The person or entity legally in possession of the unit, either by fee
title or land contract.
PUBLIC ASSISTANCE: Any assistance received by a private or public entity, and
provided by a federal, state or local agency, that is utilized for the purpose
of economic development. Such assistance includes, but is not limited to, a
loan, grant, loan guarantee, tax abatement, or creation of urban renewal or tax
increment district, or other type of credit enhancement or subsidy in
connection with the provision of related infrastructure and public
improvements.
RENTAL DWELLING UNIT: A dwelling unit that requires a payment to be made to the
owner for the possession and use thereof.
TENANT: The person or entity legally in occupancy of the unit who makes
payments to the owner for its possession and use.
UTILITY COSTS: Costs for the provision of basic utility services to a dwelling
unit, including water, sewer, natural or bottled gas for cooking and heating,
electricity, trash pick up and heating oil. For purposes of this article, such
costs do not include telephone and cable television services. (2007 Code § 26-
14)
3-4D-4: APPLICABILITY OF PROGRAM:
The program shall be applicable to tenants in any rental housing in the city,
provided all of the following conditions occur:
   A.   Comparable housing at comparable cost is not available in the city,
including, but not limited to, housing waiting lists, rental vacancy rates and
related data;
   B.   Relocation assistance has not previously been provided to a tenant of
the dwelling unit;
   C.   The household income for the dwelling unit is below two hundred percent
(200%) of the federal poverty guidelines, as published annually in the federal
register;
   D.   The property upon which the dwelling unit is situated is being rezoned
from residential to commercial use or has been rezoned from residential to
commercial use since the date of adoption of this article; or public assistance
is being used to develop a commercial property, and such rezoning or use of
public assistance results in the loss of rental dwelling units and the
displacement of tenants; and
   E.   Appropriated funds are available in the current budget for relocation
assistance payments. (2007 Code § 26-15)
3-4D-5: ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE:
A tenant who applies in writing to the city manager for relocation rent
assistance and relocation moving costs shall be eligible therefor if the tenant
establishes and the city manager finds each of the following conditions:
   A.   The tenant has been given notice by the owner of the dwelling unit of
eviction or nonrenewal of the tenant's lease;
   B.   The tenant has lived in the dwelling unit for not less than sixty (60)
consecutive days prior to such notice by the owner;
   C.   The reason for the eviction or nonrenewal is the economic development
of the property on which the dwelling unit is situated; and
   D.   The tenant has made a good faith effort, as shown by the listing and
records of such search provided by the tenant, to locate comparable housing, as
determined by the housing services division. (2007 Code § 26-16)
3-4D-6: WRITTEN NOTICE REQUIRED:
The owner of any property on which the dwelling unit is situated must deliver
not less than ninety (90) days' written notice to a tenant of eviction or
nonrenewal of a lease if such eviction or nonrenewal is the result of economic
development of the property. The notice shall include a copy of this article,
as well as the telephone number for the city manager. (2007 Code § 26-17)
3-4D-7: RELOCATION ASSISTANCE:
   A.   Rental Assistance:
      1.   If the city manager determines that comparable housing at comparable
cost is not available, and the tenant has established the conditions required
by section
3-4D-5 of this article, the tenant shall be eligible for rental assistance
which shall be based upon household income. The rental assistance shall be the
actual additional monthly rent and actual additional monthly utility costs that
result from the relocation of the tenant as determined by the city manager. The
payment of rental assistance shall be monthly, but may be a lump sum payment if
the city manager determines that a lump sum payment will be more effective if
used by the tenant for the purchase of a residence for the tenant's relocated
household.
      2.   The rental assistance payment shall be limited to sixty (60) months
or the following maximum amount, whichever occurs first:
            150 percent of federal poverty guidelines = $6,000.00
            175 percent of federal poverty guidelines = $5,000.00
            200 percent of federal poverty guidelines = $4,000.00
   B.   Moving Costs: In addition to rental assistance, a tenant may also be
compensated for actual moving and packing costs incurred, not to exceed three
hundred dollars ($300.00). The tenant may also be reimbursed for the actual
cost of reestablishing basic telephone, cable, utility services and appliance
hookups, as well as credit checks and necessary deposits, if such costs are
approved by the city manager. (2007 Code § 26-18)
3-4D-8: APPEALS:
The housing commission shall sit as the residential relocation assistance
appeals board to hear appeals under this article. (2007 Code § 26-19)
3-4D-9: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING APPEAL:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal: Any person aggrieved or adversely affected by a
decision of the city manager under the property maintenance code may apply to
the appeals board for review of such decision by filing a written notice of
appeal with the city manager within twenty (20) days of the date of the
decision. The notice of appeal shall include the following:
      1.   Name and address of person appealing.
      2.   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the decision
protested, together with any material facts claimed to support the contentions
of the person appealing.
      3.   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought, and the reasons why it is claimed the protested decision should be
reversed or modified.
      4.   The signatures of all parties named as persons appealing, and their
official mailing addresses.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Upon receipt of any notice of appeal filed pursuant
to this section, the city manager shall forward the notice of appeal to the
chairperson of the appeals board. As soon as practicable after receiving the
notice of appeal, the chairperson of the appeals board shall fix a date, time
and place for hearing the appeal. Such date shall not be less than thirty (30)
days nor more than sixty (60) days from the date the notice of appeal was
received by the city manager unless the person appealing agrees to an earlier
adjudication of the appeal. Written notice of the time and place of the hearing
shall be given by the city manager at least ten (10) days prior to the date of
the hearing to each person appealing either by causing a copy of such notice to
be personally delivered to the person appealing or by mailing a copy thereof to
the address of the person appealing shown on the appeal.
   C.   Waiver: Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall constitute a waiver of such person's right to
a hearing.
   D.   Hearing Appeals: The conduct of hearing appeals filed with the appeals
board shall be governed by title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
   E.   Appeals Board Relief: The appeals board may reverse, modify or sustain
the decision appealed from. (Ord. 31-16, 6-20-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
3-4D-10: VIOLATION BY OWNER:
The failure of an owner to comply with the requirements of this article shall
constitute a civil infraction. (2007 Code § 26-21)
3-4D-11: FUNDING:
Relocation assistance costs shall only be paid from the city housing trust
fund. Nothing herein shall require or impose any obligation upon the city
council to provide any funds for any of the purposes of this article. (2007
Code § 26-22)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES GENERALLY
SECTION:
4-1-1: License Required
4-1-2: Application For License
4-1-3: Issuance Of License
4-1-4: Record Of Licenses
4-1-5: Proration Of License Fee
4-1-6: Refund Of Fee Prohibited; Exception
4-1-7: Transferability; Changes In Location
4-1-8: License Suspension Or Revocation
4-1-9: Effect Of Chapter
4-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any business for which a
license is required by this chapter or any other provision of this code without
first procuring a license therefor and paying the license fee or fees as
prescribed for such business by this chapter or other provision of this code.
(2007 Code § 31-1)
4-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All persons who are required under any ordinance of the city to procure a
license for the purpose of engaging in any business shall first make
application to the city manager for such license, except as otherwise provided.
(2007 Code § 31-3)
4-1-3: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Except where some other method is prescribed by law, all licenses required for
engaging in a business shall be issued by the city manager in the exercise of
the city manager's discretion; provided, however, that such manager may refuse
a license in any case where the applicant is not of good moral character, free
from disease, or trustworthy in such applicant's business dealings or for any
other reason that satisfies the manager that the interests of the public would
be best protected by withholding a license from the applicant. (2007 Code § 31-
4)
4-1-4: RECORD OF LICENSES:
All licenses required shall be signed by the manager and city clerk and a copy
filed with the city clerk. (2007 Code § 31-5)
4-1-5: PRORATION OF LICENSE FEE:
In all cases where licenses for engaging in a business may be issued for lesser
periods than a full year, the license fee shall be prorated as follows:
   A.   When the application is made within the first quarter of the fiscal
year, the license fee shall be the same as the annual fee;
   B.   When the application is made in the second quarter of the fiscal year,
the license fee shall be seventy five percent (75%) of the annual fee;
   C.   When the application is made in the third quarter of the fiscal year,
the license fee shall be fifty percent (50%) of the annual fee; and
   D.   When the application is made in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year,
the license fee shall be twenty five percent (25%) of the annual fee. In all
other cases, the license fee provided for in the general license ordinance
governing the particular business for which a license is required shall prevail
and be exacted. Fractions of a month shall be taken as a full month. (2007 Code
§ 31-6)
4-1-6: REFUND OF FEE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
Except as may be provided by law, no refund shall be allowed upon any license
which is actually used for a lesser period than that prescribed in the license.
(2007 Code § 31-7)
4-1-7: TRANSFERABILITY; CHANGES IN LOCATION:
Licenses issued under this chapter or other ordinances for engaging in a
business shall not be transferable and shall cease whenever the licensee ceases
to operate thereunder. Nothing in this section shall prevent a licensee from
operating under such licensee's license, at a place other than that described
in the license, provided information regarding such change in location is
furnished to the city manager. (2007 Code § 31-8)
4-1-8: LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Authority To Suspend Or Revoke: The city manager may, upon good cause,
suspend or revoke for a period not to exceed one year any license issued under
this chapter.
   B.   License Issuance Prohibited During Period Of Suspension Or Revocation:
No new license shall be issued to any applicant, the spouse or relative within
the first degree of consanguinity as defined by the Iowa Code of any licensee
so suspended or revoked during said period of suspension or revocation.
   C.   Issuance Of Notice Of License Suspension Or Revocation: The city
manager shall cause to be issued a notice that said license is suspended or
revoked and therein set forth the reason(s) therefor. Said notice shall be sent
by first class United States mail to the registered business address on file
with the city clerk.
   D.   City Manager Decision Appealed To City Council: Notice of appeal to the
city council from the decision of the city manager shall be made by the
licensee within ten (10) days from the date of suspension or revocation and
shall be filed with the city clerk. The applicant may present evidence to the
city council as to why the license should not be suspended or revoked. (2007
Code § 31-9)
4-1-9: EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way
impair or interfere with provisions of other laws or ordinances except as
inconsistent with this chapter. Where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon persons, premises or personal property than is imposed or
required by such other provisions of law, ordinances, contract or deed, the
provisions of this chapter shall control. (2007 Code § 31-12)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
ARTICLE A. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Purpose Of Chapter
4-2A-2: Definitions
4-2A-3: Prohibited Sales And Acts
4-2A-4: Sunday Sales
4-2A-5: Advertisement For Alcohol, Liquor, Wine Or Beer
4-2A-6: Consumption In Public Places
4-2A-7: Persons Under Legal Age
4-2A-8: Notice Of Violation Upon Issuance Of Citation
4-2A-9: Buffet Sales Prohibited
4-2A-1: PURPOSE OF CHAPTER:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide administration of licenses, permits,
local regulations, and procedures for the conduct of the sale and consumption
of beer, wine and liquor, and for the protection of the safety, health, peace,
morals, and general welfare of the city. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
Where words and phrases used in this chapter are defined by state law, such
definitions shall apply to their use in this chapter and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein shall have the following
meanings:
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the alcoholic beverages division of the
department of commerce established by the code of Iowa.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing more than one-half of one percent
(0.5%) of alcohol by volume including alcoholic liquor, wine and beer.
CLUB: Any nonprofit corporation or association of individuals, which is the
owner, lessee or occupant of a permanent building or part thereof, membership
in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and which is not operated for
a profit other than such profits as would accrue to the entire membership.
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT: A place of business which is at all times equipped
with sufficient tables and seats to accommodate twenty five (25) people at one
time, and the licensed premises of which conform to the provisions of this code
and other ordinances of the city.
DIRECTOR: The director, or the director's designee, of the Iowa alcoholic
beverages division.
DIVISION: The alcoholic beverages division of the department of commerce
established by the code of Iowa.
GROCERY STORE: Any retail establishment, the principal business of which
consists of the sale of food or food products for consumption off the premises.
The volume of sales of all other items, commodities and materials shall be
included with the volume of sales of beer, and sales of beer shall not equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the dollar volume of all sales made by the
establishment in order to meet the test that food must be the principal
business thereof.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: Premises licensed by the state department of inspections and
appeals and regularly or seasonally kept open in a bona fide manner for the
lodging of transient guests, and with twenty (20) or more sleeping rooms.
KITCHEN FACILITY: A facility with a sink with piped water, nonportable cooking
equipment, such as ranges, cookstoves, or a cooktop with oven, and
refrigerator, located within the same building.
LEGAL AGE: Twenty one (21) years of age or more.
PERSONS OF GOOD MORAL CHARACTER: Any person who meets all of the following
requirements:
   A.   The person has such financial standing and good reputation as will
satisfy the city council and the director that the person will comply with the
Iowa alcoholic beverages control act, all other laws, provisions of this code,
other city ordinances, and regulations applicable to the person's operations
under state law. However, the city council shall not require the person to post
a bond to meet the requirements of this definition.
   B.   The person is not prohibited by the provisions of this chapter from
obtaining a liquor license or beer permit.
   C.   Notwithstanding subsection E of this definition, the applicant is a
citizen of the United States and a resident of the state or is licensed to do
business in the state in the case of a corporation; and notwithstanding
subsection E of this definition, in the case of a partnership, only one general
partner need be a resident of this state.
   D.   The person has not been convicted of a felony; however, if a conviction
of a felony occurred more than five (5) years before the application for a
license or permit and if the person's rights of citizenship have been restored
by the governor, the director may determine that said person is a person of
moral character notwithstanding the conviction.
   E.   The requirements of this definition apply to the following:
      1.    Each of the officers, directors and partners of such person;
      2.    A person who directly or indirectly owns or controls ten percent
(10%) or more of any class of stock of such person; and
      3.    A person who directly or indirectly has an interest of ten percent
(10%) or more in the ownership or profits of such person.
RESTAURANT: A commercial establishment where the usual and customary business
is the serving of meals to consumers and which includes a kitchen facility.
(Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2A-3: PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS:
A person or club holding a liquor license or retail wine or beer permit under
this chapter, and the person's or club's agents or employees shall not do any
of the following:
   A.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or a person
simulating intoxication, any alcoholic liquor, wine or beer;
   B.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic liquor, wine or beer on the premises
covered by the license or permit, or permit its consumption thereon between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any weekday or
Saturday, and between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on Sunday and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following Monday; however, a holder of a liquor
control license or retail beer permit granted the privilege of selling
alcoholic liquor, wine or beer on Sundays, may sell or dispense such liquor,
wine or beer on Sunday only between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following Monday;
   C.   Sell alcoholic beverages, wine or beer to any person on credit, except
with a bona fide credit card. This provision shall not apply to sales by a club
to its members nor to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests;
   D.   Employ any person under the age of eighteen (18) years in the sale or
serving of alcoholic liquor, wine or beer for consumption on the premises where
sold;
   E.   In the case of a retail beer or wine permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to beer, wine or any
other beverage in or about the permittee's place of business;
   F.   Keep, or allow to be kept, gambling devices of any kind or description
on the premises of place of business of the licensee or permit holder, contrary
to law; (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
   G.   Keep on premises covered by a liquor control license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the division
and except mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate
consumption on the licensed premises or as otherwise provided by Iowa Code,
section 123.49(2)(d). This prohibition does not apply to common carriers
holding a class D liquor control license; (Ord. 64-12, 12-17-2012)
   H.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substances, the contents or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package which has been so reused or adulterated; or
   I.   Sell, give, or otherwise supply any alcoholic beverage, wine, or beer
to any person, knowing or failing to exercise reasonable care to ascertain
whether the person is under legal age, or permit any person, knowing or failing
to exercise reasonable care to ascertain whether the person is under legal age,
to consume any alcoholic beverage, wine, or beer. Violation of this section is
punishable as a scheduled violation under Iowa Code section 805.8C(2). (Ord.
21-09, 4-20-2009)
4-2A-4: SUNDAY SALES:
Any club, hotel, motel, or commercial establishment holding a liquor control
license, subject to section 123.49, subsection 2, paragraph b of the code of
Iowa, may apply for and receive permission to sell and dispense alcoholic
liquor and wine to patrons on Sunday for consumption on the premises only, and
beer for consumption on or off the premises between the hours of eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. on Sunday and two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the following Monday. A
class D liquor control licensee may apply for and receive permission to sell
and dispense alcoholic beverages to patrons for consumption on the premises
only between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on Sunday and two o'clock
(2:00) A.M. on the following Monday. For the privilege of selling beer, wine,
and alcoholic liquor on the premises on Sunday, the liquor control license fee
of the applicant shall be increased by twenty percent (20%) of the regular fee
prescribed for the license pursuant to this section, and the privilege shall be
noted on the liquor control license. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2A-5: ADVERTISEMENT FOR ALCOHOL, LIQUOR, WINE OR BEER:
No signs or other matter advertising any brand of alcoholic liquor, beer or
wine shall be erected or placed upon the outside of any premises occupied by a
licensee or permittee authorized to sell liquor, beer or wine at retail. This
section does not prohibit the use of signs or other matter inside a fence or
similar enclosure which wholly or partially surrounds the licensed premises.
(Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2A-6: CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It is unlawful for any person to use or consume alcoholic liquors, wine or beer
upon the public streets or highways or alcoholic beverages in any public place
except premises covered by a liquor control license, or to possess or consume
alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer on any public school property or while
attending any public or private school related functions. As used in this
section, "school" means a school or that portion of a school which provides
teaching for any grade from kindergarten through grade 12. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-
2009)
4-2A-7: PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE:
   A.   Purchase Or Possession Prohibited:
      1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase or individually or jointly have alcoholic liquor, wine or beer in
their possession or control; except in the case of liquor, wine or beer given
or dispensed to a person under the legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian for beverage or
medicinal purposes or administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under the
legal age may handle alcoholic liquor, wine and beer during the regular course
of the person's employment by a liquor control licensee, or wine or beer
permittee under this subsection.
      2.   A person who is under legal age, other than a licensee or permittee,
who violates this subsection regarding the purchase of or attempt to purchase
alcoholic liquor, wine or beer, or possessing or having control of alcoholic
liquor, wine or beer commits a simple misdemeanor punishable by a scheduled
fine as established pursuant to Iowa Code section 805.8c.
   B.   Misrepresentation Of Age:
      1.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person's age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic liquor, wine
or beer from any licensee or permittee. If any person under the legal age
misrepresents the person's age and the licensee or permittee establishes that
the licensee or permittee made reasonable inquiry to determine whether the
prospective purchaser was over the legal age, the licensee or permittee is not
guilty of selling alcoholic liquor, wine or beer to a person under legal age.
      2.   A person violating this subsection or reasonably believed to be
violating this subsection may be detained in a reasonable manner and for a
reasonable length of time by a police officer, owner, operator, or an employee
of a public establishment or private club where alcoholic liquor, wine or beer
is sold or dispensed for off premises or on premises consumption for the
purpose of investigating or determining the person's true age and identity.
Such detention shall not render the detainer criminally or civilly liable for
false arrest, false imprisonment or unlawful detention.
      3.   The manager of any public establishment that sells alcoholic liquor,
wine or beer for on premises or off premises consumption and the manager of any
private club that serves alcoholic liquor, wine or beer for on premises
consumption shall be required to post in a conspicuous place a notice stating:
            NOTICE TO PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE
YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE FOR ATTEMPTING TO PURCHASE OR OTHERWISE OBTAIN
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, WINE OR BEER OR FOR MISREPRESENTING YOUR AGE FOR THE PURPOSE
OF PURCHASING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, WINE OR BEER.
The size of said notice shall be not less than eight and one-half inches by
eleven inches (81/2" x 11").
   C.   Persons Prohibited From Premises:
      1.   Prohibitions:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the legal age to enter
or remain upon any premises between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and
closing where more than thirty five percent (35%) of the business conducted on
such premises is the sale or dispensing of liquor, wine or beer except as set
forth in subsection C2 of this section. The phrase "business conducted on such
premises" shall be defined as the total business revenue generated on such
premises during the previous calendar year.
         b.   If the establishment otherwise qualifies under the foregoing
thirty five percent (35%) criteria and has one or more restaurants in the
building, no person under the legal age shall remain on the premises thirty
(30) minutes after any restaurant on the licensed premises closes.
      2.   Exceptions: The prohibition of subsection C1 of this section shall
not apply:
         a.   To a person under legal age who is an employee of the licensee or
permittee, or performing a contracted service for the licensee or permittee on
the premises.
         b.   To a person under legal age who is accompanied on the premises at
all times by a parent, guardian or spouse who is not under the age for lawful
purchase and/or possession of alcoholic beverages.
         c.   To a person under legal age on the premises during a period of
time when the licensee or permittee, in accordance with a written plan given to
and approved by the chief of police, has suspended dispensing alcoholic liquor,
wine or beer on the licensed or permitted premises or in a clearly delineated
area of the licensed or permitted premises. During such period of time, the
licensee or permittee shall not permit any underage person to purchase or
possess alcoholic liquor, beer or wine on the premises. Police officers shall
be admitted to the premises at any time to monitor compliance with all
applicable laws.
      3.   Persons Under Legal Age: No licensee or permittee or a licensee's or
permittee's agent or employee shall allow any person under the legal age to
enter or remain upon the premises between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
and closing where the business conducted includes the sale and dispensing of
alcoholic liquor, wine or beer, except as permitted in subsections C1 and C2 of
this section. The licensee or permittee of any business that sells alcoholic
liquor, wine or beer for on premises consumption shall be required to post in a
conspicuous place a notice stating:
            NOTICE TO PERSONS UNDER THE LEGAL AGE
YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE FOR BEING ON THESE PREMISES BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 9:00
P.M. AND CLOSING UNLESS YOU ARE EMPLOYED BY THE OWNER OR ARE ACCOMPANIED BY A
PARENT, GUARDIAN, OR SPOUSE WHO IS OF LEGAL AGE.
(Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2A-8: NOTICE OF VIOLATION UPON ISSUANCE OF CITATION:
   A.   The chief of police, or the chief of police's designee, shall provide
written notice to a beer permit, wine permit, or liquor license holder upon
issuance of summons or citation to any employee or agent for a violation of
this article, or the provisions of the code of Iowa. Such notice of violation
shall be directed to the permit or license holder as recorded in the office of
the city clerk and shall be by certified United States mail, return receipt
requested.
   B.   When the holder of the permit or license has been issued a citation or
summons coincidental to the same action of the police, the above provision of
notice shall not be required. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2A-9: BUFFET SALES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Sales Prohibited: The holder of a liquor license or wine or beer permit
or the holder or permittee's employees or agents shall not sell, offer to sell,
dispense, or serve for purpose of on premises consumption an unlimited number
of servings of alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer for a fixed price.
   B.   Exceptions: Nothing in this section shall prohibit the holder of a
liquor control license or wine or beer permit, or the holder or permittee's
employees or agents, from:
      1.   Including servings or drinks of alcoholic liquor, beer or wine as
part of a hotel or motel package which includes overnight accommodations;
      2.   Providing a fixed price for an unlimited or indefinite amount of
drinks for a "private event", which is defined as an event restricted to a
particular group or persons; provided, that the licensee or permittee shall
provide the means or method by which to identify persons participating in
private events, such as use of a private room or a physical means to identify
such participants; or
      3.   Selling, offering to sell, dispensing, or serving for purpose of on
premises consumption an unlimited number of servings of alcoholic liquor, wine
or beer for a fixed price if permitted for a special event by the city council.
(Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
ARTICLE B. LIQUOR, BEER AND WINE LICENSES AND PERMITS
SECTION:
4-2B-1: License Or Permit Required
4-2B-2: Separate Permits Required For Separate Locations
4-2B-3: Application; Bond
4-2B-4: Persons Eligible
4-2B-5: Investigation Of Applicant And Premises
4-2B-6: Requirements For Premises
4-2B-7: Proof Of Financial Responsibility
4-2B-8: [Reserved]
4-2B-9: Action By Council; Forwarding Of Documents To State
4-2B-10: Nature And Scope Of License Or Permit
4-2B-11: Transferability As To Location
4-2B-12: Surrender Of Permit Or License; Refund Of Fee
4-2B-13: Term Of License Or Permit; Seasonal Licenses And Permits
4-2B-14: Application For Renewal
4-2B-15: Suspension And Revocation Generally; Grounds
4-2B-16: Suspension And Revocation; Notification; Specific Terms
4-2B-17: Hearing
4-2B-18: Effect Of Revocation
4-2B-1: LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall sell beer or wine at retail in the city nor shall any person
sell beer, wine or alcoholic liquor in the city for consumption on the premises
without first obtaining a beer permit, wine permit, or a liquor control license
as required by state law and subject to the provisions of this article. (Ord.
10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2B-2: SEPARATE PERMITS REQUIRED FOR SEPARATE LOCATIONS:
   A.   Each person holding a class B or class C beer permit having more than
one place of business where such beer is sold shall be required to have a
separate beer permit for each separate place of business, except as otherwise
prohibited by state law.
   B.   A class B wine permittee having more than one place of business where
wine is sold shall obtain a separate permit for each place of business. (Ord.
10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2B-3: APPLICATION; BOND:
A verified application for the original issuance or the renewal of a liquor
control license, wine permit or beer permit shall be filed at such time, in
such number of copies, and in such form as the state director of beer and
liquor control shall prescribe, on forms prescribed by the state director of
beer and liquor control. The application shall be accompanied by the fee, if
required, and bond and shall be filed with the city clerk for submission to the
city council for approval or disapproval. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2B-4: PERSONS ELIGIBLE:
Upon meeting the requirements imposed by state law, the provisions of this
code, and other ordinances of the city, a person who is of good moral character
may apply for a liquor control license, wine permit, or beer permit. In the
case of a club, corporation or partnership, the officers of the club or
corporation and the partners of a partnership shall be "persons of good moral
character" as defined by state law and this chapter. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2B-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT AND PREMISES:
Upon receipt of an original application for a liquor license, wine permit or
beer permit by the city clerk, it shall be forwarded to the chief of police who
shall conduct an investigation and shall submit a written report on the
applicant as to the truth of the facts averred in the application and a
recommendation to the city council as to the approval of the license or permit.
It shall be the duty of the health, building and fire departments to inspect
the premises to determine if it conforms to the requirements of the city and no
license or permit shall be approved until or unless an approving report has
been filed with the city clerk for submission to the city council. (Ord. 10-09,
2-16-2009)
4-2B-6: REQUIREMENTS FOR PREMISES:
   A.   Right Of Entry For Inspection: An applicant for a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit, as a further condition for approval by
the city council, must give consent in writing on the application that members
of the fire, police, building and health departments may enter upon the
premises without warrant to inspect for violations of the provisions of state
law and of this chapter.
   B.   Requirements: In addition to any other requirements, the premises for
which a beer permit, wine permit, or liquor control license is sought shall
meet the following requirements:
      1.   No liquor control license, wine permit or beer permit shall be
approved for premises which do not conform to all applicable laws, provisions
of this code, and other ordinances, resolutions, and health and fire
regulations.
      2.   No licensee shall have or maintain any interior access to
residential or sleeping quarters unless permission is granted by the
administrator in the form of a living quarters permit. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
      3.   The premises for which a retail beer permit is sought shall be
located within a business district or an area now or hereafter zoned to permit
such business and shall conform to the zoning requirements of the city. (Ord.
64-12, 12-17-2012)
      4.   The premises of a retail beer permittee shall, at the time of the
application, continue to be equipped with sufficient tables and seats to
accommodate twenty five (25) people at one time. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2B-7: PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Each liquor control licensee and retail beer permittee shall furnish proof of
financial responsibility either by the existence of a liability insurance
policy or by posting bond in such amount as shall be determined by the Iowa
Alcoholic Beverage Division which shall be based on a review of factors,
including but not limited to:
   A.   Amount of financial support and operating funds;
   B.   Prompt payment of state and local taxes;
   C.   Fees and charges for municipal utilities and services; and
   D.   Prompt payment of licensing fees and any administrative penalties.
(Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009; amd. Ord. 29-21, 8-16-2021)
4-2B-8: [RESERVED]:
 
4-2B-9: ACTION BY COUNCIL; FORWARDING OF DOCUMENTS TO STATE:
   A.   Action taken by the City Council shall be so endorsed on the
application and thereafter the application shall be forwarded to the division
for such further action as is provided by law.
   B.   Provisional Licenses And Permits:
      1.   The City Clerk's Office is authorized to issue provisional approval
for new and renewal applicants for liquor, beer, and wine licenses and permits
prior to regularly scheduled City Council meetings when the applicants have met
all of the application and inspection provisions of the city and state codes.
      2.   The City Clerk shall place all provisional approvals on the next
regularly scheduled City Council Agenda for review and either approval or
revocation by the City Council.
      3.   The City Council reserves the right to revoke any provisional new or
renewal liquor, beer, and wine approval issued by the City Clerk's Office when
an applicant is no longer eligible for a license or permit at the time of the
regularly scheduled City Council meeting and approval would result in the
violation of any provisions of this code, other city ordinances, or the state
code. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009; amd. Ord. 29-21, 8-16-2021)
4-2B-10: NATURE AND SCOPE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
A liquor control license, or beer or wine permit shall be a purely personal
privilege and shall be revocable for cause; it shall not constitute property
nor be subject to attachment and execution, nor be alienable nor assignable
and, in any case, it shall cease upon the death of the permittee or licensee;
however, the director may, in the director's discretion, allow the executor or
administrator of a permittee or licensee to operate the business of the
decedent for a reasonable time, not to exceed the expiration date of the permit
or license. Each permit or license shall be issued in the name of the applicant
and no person holding a permit or license shall allow any other person to use
it. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2B-11: TRANSFERABILITY AS TO LOCATION:
The city council may, in its discretion, authorize a licensee or permittee
under this article to transfer the license or permit from one location to
another within the city; provided, that the premises to which the transfer is
to be made would have been eligible for a license or permit in the first
instance and the transfer will not result in the violation of any law,
provisions of this code, or other city ordinance. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2B-12: SURRENDER OF PERMIT OR LICENSE; REFUND OF FEE:
   A.   Voluntary Surrender: Any licensee or permittee under this article, or
any licensee's or permittee's executor, administrator, or any person duly
appointed by a court to take charge of and administer the property or assets of
the licensee or permittee for the benefit of the licensee's or permittee's
creditors may voluntarily surrender such license or permit to the division, and
when so surrendered, the division shall notify the city.
   B.   Refund Of Fee: The division and the city, or the city by itself in the
case of a retail beer permit, shall refund to the person so surrendering the
license or permit a proportionate amount of the fee paid for such license or
permit as follows:
      1.   If surrendered during the first three (3) months of the period for
which the license or permit was issued, the refund shall be three-fourths (3/4)
of the amount of the fee; if surrendered more than three (3) months, but not
more than six (6) months after issuance, the refund shall be one-half (1/2) of
the amount of the fee; if surrendered more than six (6) months, but not more
than nine (9) months after issuance, the refund shall be one-fourth (1/4) of
the amount of the fee.
      2.   No refund shall be made, however, for a liquor control license or
beer permit surrendered more than nine (9) months after issuance.
      3.   No refund shall be made to any licensee or permittee upon the
surrender of his license or permit, if there is at the time of the surrender a
complaint filed with the department or the city charging him with a violation
of this chapter or any provision of the Iowa alcoholic beverage control act.
      4.   If upon hearing any such complaint, the license or permit is not
revoked or suspended, then the licensee or permittee shall be eligible, upon
surrender of the licensee's or permittee's license or permit, to receive a
refund as provided in this section; but if the licensee's or permittee's
license or permit is revoked or suspended upon the hearing, he shall not be
eligible for the refund of any portion of the licensee's or permittee's license
or permit fee.
      5.   No refund shall be made for seasonal licenses or permits. (Ord. 10-
09, 2-16-2009)
4-2B-13: TERM OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; SEASONAL LICENSES AND PERMITS:
All liquor control licenses, wine permits, and beer permits, unless sooner
suspended or revoked, shall expire one year from the date of issuance. Six (6)
or eight (8) month seasonal licenses, wine permits, or beer permits may be
issued for a proportionate part of the license or permit fee. No seasonal
license or permit shall be renewed except after a period of two (2) months.
Seasonal licensing shall be only as permitted by the code of Iowa. (Ord. 10-09,
2-16-2009)
4-2B-14: APPLICATION FOR RENEWAL:
Upon receipt of an application for the renewal of a liquor license, wine permit
or beer permit, it shall be forwarded to the chief of police who shall conduct
an investigation and shall submit a written report on the applicant as to the
truth of the facts answered in the application and a recommendation to the city
council as to the approval of the license or permit. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
4-2B-15: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION GENERALLY; GROUNDS:
   A.   A license or permit issued under this chapter may be suspended or
revoked or a civil penalty may be imposed on the licensee or permittee for any
of the following:
      1.   Misrepresentation of any material fact in the application for the
license or permit. (Ord. 29-11, 4-4-2011; amd. Ord. 49-12, 9-17-2012)
      2.   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or Iowa Code
chapter 123. (Ord. 49-12, 9-17-2012)
      3.   Any change in the ownership or interest in the business operated
under a class A, class B, or class C liquor control license, or any wine or
beer permit, which change was not previously reported to and approved by the
local authority and/or the alcoholic beverages division.
      4.   An event which would have resulted in disqualification from
receiving the license or permit when originally issued.
      5.   Any sale, hypothecation, or transfer of the license or permit.
      6.   The failure or refusal on the part of the licensee or permittee to
render any report or remit any taxes when due to the alcoholic beverages
division under this chapter. (Ord. 29-11, 4-4-2011; amd. Ord. 49-12, 9-17-2012)
      7.   The conviction of any liquor control licensee or wine or beer
permittee for a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is grounds
for the suspension or revocation of the license or permit by the state of Iowa
alcoholic beverages division or the city.
      8.   If any liquor control licensee or wine or beer permittee is
convicted of any violation of the Iowa Code, the liquor control license or wine
or beer permit must be revoked and must be immediately surrendered by the
holder and the bond of the licensee or permittee must be forfeited to the state
of Iowa alcoholic beverages division.
   B.   A criminal conviction is not a prerequisite to suspension, revocation,
or imposition of a civil penalty pursuant to this section. (Ord. 49-12, 9-17-
2012)
4-2B-16: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION; NOTIFICATION; SPECIFIC TERMS:
   A.   If any licensee, wine or beer permittee, or an employee of such
licensee or permittee is convicted of a violation of this chapter or chapter
123 of the code of Iowa, the city must notify the licensee, wine or beer
permittee of the violation.
   B.   The city manager and the city attorney may enter into an agreement with
the licensee or permittee for the days for which a licensee or permittee may
serve a suspension of a license or permit.
   C.   The notice of violation must provide the licensee, wine or beer
permittee a summary of the violation, the penalties, and the available options,
which include admitting the violation and accepting assessment of a penalty as
follows: (Ord. 49-12, 9-17-2012)
      1.   First violation: The licensee or permittee must pay a civil penalty
in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or serve a fourteen (14) day
suspension of the license or permit. Failure to pay the civil penalty will
result in automatic suspension of the license or permit for a period of
fourteen (14) days. (Ord. 29-11, 4-4-2011; amd. Ord. 49-12, 9-17-2012)
      2.   Second violation (within a period of 2 years): The licensee or
permittee must pay a one thousand five hundred dollar ($1,500.00) civil penalty
and serve a thirty (30) day suspension of the license or permit; however, in
lieu of the fine and suspension, the licensee or permittee may:
         a.   Pay a five thousand dollar ($5,000.00) civil penalty and serve a
thirty (30) day suspension of which sixteen (16) days will be suspended, on the
condition that the licensee or permittee receive no further violations for a
twelve (12) consecutive month probationary period. If there is a violation
within the twelve (12) month probationary period, upon service of notice by the
city, the sixteen (16) days which were suspended must be served by the licensee
or permittee as agreed upon by the chief of police; or
         b.   Pay a seven thousand five hundred dollar ($7,500.00) civil
penalty and serve a thirty (30) day suspension of which twenty three (23) days
will be suspended, on the condition that the licensee or permittee receive no
further violations for a twelve (12) consecutive month probationary period,
together with two (2) of the following conditions selected by the licensee or
permittee with the approval of the chief of police:
            (1)   Terminate the employee who acted illegally.
            (2)   Purchase and use identification scanners for use on all
alcohol sales.
            (3)   All employees at the time of the violation who may serve
alcohol and continue their employment with the licensee or permittee must be
trained in training for intervention procedures (TIPS) or other training
approved by the city within ninety (90) days and all new employees hired within
two (2) years who may serve alcohol must receive training within thirty (30)
days of their hire date.
            (4)   Use wristbands for patrons twenty one (21) years of age and
older.
            (5)   Hire staff to check the identification of all patrons as they
enter the establishment for days of the week and hours as determined by the
chief of police.
            (6)   Purchase, install, and use a system which scans photo
identifications and records a photograph of the identification and the
individual using the identification to secure entrance into the business, or
other electronic system as approved by the chief of police.
            (7)   Such other conditions as agreed upon between the licensee or
permittee and the chief of police.
If there is a violation within the twelve (12) month period following a
settlement agreement between the licensee or permittee and the city, upon
service of notice by the city, the twenty three (23) days which were suspended
must be served by the licensee or permittee as agreed upon by the chief of
police. For purposes of the probationary period, the reinstatement of the
suspension does not require a conviction; or
         c.   Pay a fifteen thousand dollar ($15,000.00) civil penalty and
serve a thirty (30) day suspension of which thirty (30) days will be suspended,
on the condition that the licensee or permittee receive no further violations
for a twelve (12) consecutive month probationary period, together with three
(3) of the following conditions selected by the licensee or permittee with the
approval of the chief of police:
            (1)   Terminate the employee who acted illegally.
            (2)   Purchase and use identification scanners for use on all
alcohol sales.
            (3)   All employees at the time of the violation who may serve
alcohol and continue their employment with the licensee or permittee must be
trained in training for intervention procedures (TIPS) or other training
approved by the city within ninety (90) days and all new employees hired within
two (2) years who may serve alcohol must receive the training within thirty
(30) days of their hire date.
            (4)   Use wristbands for patrons twenty one (21) years of age and
older.
            (5)   Hire staff to check the identification of all patrons as they
enter the establishment for days of the week and hours as determined by the
chief of police.
            (6)   Purchase, install, and use a system which scans photo
identifications and records a photograph of the identification and the
individual using the identification to secure entrance into the business, or
other electronic system as approved by the chief of police.
            (7)   Such other conditions as agreed upon between the licensee or
permittee and the chief of police.
If there is a violation within the twelve (12) month period following a
settlement agreement between the licensee or permittee and the city, upon
service of notice by the city, the thirty (30) days which were suspended must
be served by the licensee or permittee as agreed upon by the chief of police.
For purposes of the probationary period, the reinstatement of the suspension
does not require a conviction.
      3.   Third violation (within a period of 2 years): The licensee or
permittee must pay a one thousand five hundred dollar ($1,500.00) civil penalty
and serve a sixty (60) day suspension of the license or permit; however, in
lieu of the fine and suspension, the licensee or permittee may:
         a.   Pay a fifteen thousand dollar ($15,000.00) civil penalty and
serve a sixty (60) day suspension of which thirty (30) days will be suspended,
on the condition that the licensee or permittee receive no further violations
for a twelve (12) consecutive month probationary period, together with the
following conditions:
            (1)   Terminate the employee who acted illegally.
            (2)   Purchase and use identification scanners for use on all
alcohol sales.
            (3)   All employees at the time of the violation who may serve
alcohol and continue their employment with the licensee or permittee must be
trained in training for intervention procedures (TIPS) or other training
approved by the city within ninety (90) days and all new employees hired within
two (2) years who may serve alcohol must receive the training within thirty
(30) days of their hire date.
            (4)   Use wristbands for patrons twenty one (21) years of age and
older.
            (5)   Hire staff to check the identification of all patrons as they
enter the establishment for days of the week and hours as determined by the
chief of police.
            (6)   Purchase, install, and use a system which scans photo
identifications and records a photograph of the identification and the
individual using the identification to secure entrance into the business, or
other electronic system as approved by the chief of police.
            (7)   Such other conditions as agreed upon between the licensee or
permittee and the chief of police.
If there is a violation within the twelve (12) month period following a
settlement agreement between the licensee or permittee and the city, upon
service of notice by the city, the thirty (30) days which were suspended must
be served by the licensee or permittee as agreed upon by the chief of police.
For purposes of the probationary period, the reinstatement of the suspension
does not require a conviction. (Ord. 49-12, 9-17-2012)
      4.   Fourth violation (within a period of 2 years): The licensee's or
permittee's liquor control license or wine or beer permit must be revoked.
(Ord. 29-11, 4-4-2011; amd. Ord. 49-12, 9-17-2012)
   D.   Any licensee, wine or beer permittee convicted of a violation of this
chapter or chapter 123 of the code of Iowa, may contest the violation and
request a hearing with the state of Iowa alcoholic beverages division as
provided in chapter 123 of the Iowa Code. (Ord. 49-12, 9-17-2012)
4-2B-17: HEARING:
The right to a hearing with the state of Iowa alcoholic beverages division as
provided in chapter 123 of the Iowa Code shall be afforded a liquor control
licensee, wine permittee, or beer permittee whose license or permit has been
proposed for suspension, revocation, or denial. (Ord. 49-12, 9-17-2012)
4-2B-18: EFFECT OF REVOCATION:
Any liquor control licensee or beer or wine permittee whose license or permit
is revoked under the code of Iowa shall not thereafter be permitted to hold a
liquor control license or a beer or wine permit in the state for a period of
two (2) years from the date of the revocation. The spouse and business
associates holding ten percent (10%) or more of the capital stock or ownership
interest in the business of a person whose license or permit has been revoked
shall not be issued a liquor control license or beer or wine permit, and no
liquor control license or beer or wine permit shall be issued which covers any
business in which such person has a financial interest for a period of two (2)
years from the date of such revocation. In the event a license or permit is
revoked, the premises which had been covered by the license or permit shall not
be relicensed for one year. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2009)
CHAPTER 3
EXCURSION BOAT ADMISSION FEES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Collection Of Admission Fees; Exceptions
4-3-1: COLLECTION OF ADMISSION FEES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Collection And Payment Of Fee; Exceptions: Any excursion boat licensee
licensed under Iowa Code section 99F.7, that is docked within the corporate
limits of the city, shall collect and pay to the city of Dubuque an admission
fee of fifty cents ($0.50) for each person embarking on an excursion gambling
boat, except for the following persons, for whom the licensee shall be exempt
from the requirement of the collection of an admission fee:
      1.   Commissioners and members of the staff of the state racing and
gaming commission while on official business;
      2.   Persons under the age of twenty one (21) who are not charged an
admission fee to participate in an excursion;
      3.   Any other persons exempted by ruling of the state racing and gaming
commission.
   B.   Payment For All Excursions And All Persons Using Ticket: If tickets are
issued that are good for more than one excursion, the admission fee shall be
paid for each person using the ticket on each excursion that the ticket is
used.
   C.   Free Or Complimentary Admission Tickets: If free passes or
complimentary admission tickets are issued, the licensee shall pay the same fee
upon these passes or complimentary tickets as if they were sold at the regular
and usual admission rate.
   D.   Fee Free Passes: The excursion boat licensee may, however, issue fee
free passes to actual and necessary officials and employees of the licensee or
other persons actually working on the excursion gambling boat. Issuance of fee
free passes is subject to the rules of the Iowa racing and gaming commission
and a list of all persons to whom fee free passes are issued shall be filed
with the commission as required by code of Iowa section 99F.10(2)(d) and a copy
thereof provided to the city.
   E.   Monthly Payments To City: The fee required by this section shall be
paid to the city on a monthly basis and shall be accompanied by an accounting
therefor. (2007 Code § 31-13)
CHAPTER 4
CENTRAL MARKET AND OTHER FARMERS' MARKETS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Market Areas Delineated
4-4-2: Farmers' Market; Display Of Merchandise
4-4-3: Market Stalls Established; Issuance Of Permits
4-4-4: Restricted Parking In Central Market And Other Designated Farmers'
Markets
4-4-5: Display Permit Restricted To Central Market Area Or Other Farmers'
Market
4-4-6: Revocation Of Permit
4-4-7: Market Master Designated; Duties Generally
4-4-8: Traffic Regulations
4-4-9: Inspection; Confiscation Of Food Unfit For Consumption
4-4-10: Weights And Measures
4-4-1: MARKET AREAS DELINEATED:
   A.   Central Market Area: The property of the City adjacent to the City
Hall, together with such parts of the streets and sidewalks located within the
area bounded by the south side of Tenth Street, the north side of Thirteenth
Street, the west side of Central Avenue and the east side of Main Street, and
such distances on Iowa Street between Thirteenth and Fourteenth Streets on both
sides thereof as may be necessary for three (3) standard auto parking stalls,
will constitute and be known as the Central Market.
   B.   Other Areas: Other areas will be delineated as farmers' markets and a
map of such areas will be filed with the Offices of the City Manager, the City
Clerk, the Health Services Department, and the Planning Services Department if
the applications for such markets and subsequently the markets themselves
comply with the rules and regulations for a farmers' market set forth in the
City's farmers' market permit application, this Code, and any other applicable
local, State, and Federal laws. (Ord. 13-19, 3-4-2019)
4-4-2: FARMERS' MARKET; DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE:
The Central Market and any other designated farmers' markets that obtain and
comply with the City's farmers' market permit application will be a "farmers'
market" as provided for in the Iowa Administrative Code and will be subject to
the rules relating thereto. Inspections may be conducted by the City Manager
who is under contract with the State Department of Inspections and Appeals.
Subject to such regulation and the limitations and prohibitions set forth
hereinafter, any person, firm or corporation may display, offer for sale or
sell on the streets or sidewalks of the Central Market or another farmers'
market, flowers, plants, arts, crafts or food items which have been raised,
produced, procured or crafted by the local vendor and which are displayed and
sold at a stall for which a permit has been issued as provided for in this
chapter. (Ord. 13-19, 3-4-2019)
4-4-3: MARKET STALLS ESTABLISHED; ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
   A.   Spaces For Stalls Established; Fees: The City Manager is authorized to
establish spaces for stalls in the Central Market or other designated farmers'
markets as may be necessary and to issue permits for the use of such stalls.
The fees for such permits shall be established by the City Manager.
   B.   Use Of Metered Parking Spaces: When a permit holder uses a metered
parking space on days other than authorized by the holder's permit, the permit
holder shall comply with the parking meter requirements of this Code. (Ord. 13-
19, 3-4-2019)
4-4-4: RESTRICTED PARKING IN CENTRAL MARKET AND OTHER DESIGNATED FARMERS'
MARKETS:
   A.   When stalls in the Central Market have been established by the City
Manager and signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle in such stall between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon on Saturdays in the months of May through October unless
the vehicle has on display a permit as described in this chapter.
   B.   When stalls in other designated, permitted farmers' markets have been
established by the City Manager and signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle in such stall between the hours designated on the
signs on the days in the months of the year designated on the signs unless the
vehicle has on display a permit described in this chapter. (Ord. 22-19, 5-6-
2019)
4-4-5: DISPLAY PERMIT RESTRICTED TO CENTRAL MARKET AREA OR OTHER FARMERS'
MARKET:
A market stall permit authorizes a person to display foods or crafts only in
the Central Market or other designated farmers' markets as provided in this
chapter and as specified on the market stall permit. Market stall permits are
market specific and only allow a permit holder to display foods or crafts in
the market expressly stated on the stall permit. (Ord. 13-19, 3-4-2019)
4-4-6: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
In any case where it is found that items displayed, offered for sale or sold
have not been raised, produced, procured or crafted by the local vendor, or
have been processed, manufactured or crafted by the local vendor in violation
of any City ordinance or permit agreement, the permit may be revoked by the
City Manager. (Ord. 13-19, 3-4-2019)
4-4-7: MARKET MASTER DESIGNATED; DUTIES GENERALLY:
The City Manager shall establish and carry out such procedures, policies and
rules relating to the Central Market or other designated farmers' markets and
their operations as are necessary to provide for acceptable sanitation and to
protect the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 13-19, 3-4-2019)
4-4-8: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The City Manager shall restrict or regulate the sidewalk and street traffic in
the area of the Central Market or other designated farmers' markets as may be
necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 13-19, 3-4-
2019)
4-4-9: INSPECTION; CONFISCATION OF FOOD UNFIT FOR CONSUMPTION:
All food or food products displayed, sold or offered for sale at the Central
Market and other designated farmers' markets shall be subject to inspection by
the City Manager. If any food or food product is found to be unfit for human
consumption, the City Manager shall confiscate and destroy the food, and the
person displaying, offering for sale or selling such food shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 13-19, 3-4-2019)
4-4-10: WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:
The weights and measures approved, standardized and adopted by the State
Department of Agriculture shall be the standard weights and measures used for
the sale of all merchandise required to be sold by weight or other measure at
the Central Market and other farmers' markets. All sales by weight shall be by
avoirdupois weight, and all sales of commodities by measure shall be by
standard volume containers, specifically, pint, quart, peck or bushel. (Ord.
13-19, 3-4-2019)
CHAPTER 5
SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
ARTICLE A. SOLICITORS
SECTION:
4-5A-1: Definitions
4-5A-2: License Required
4-5A-3: Exemptions
4-5A-4: Application For License
4-5A-5: Bond
4-5A-6: Fees
4-5A-7: Display Of License
4-5A-8: Misrepresentation
4-5A-9: Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of License
4-5A-10: Appeal
4-5A-11: Personal Nature; Transferability
4-5A-12: Report To City Clerk Upon Loss Required
4-5A-13: Music
4-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following term has the following meaning:
SOLICITOR: Any person offering and exposing goods, wares, merchandise,
products, or services for sale, or taking or soliciting orders for goods,
wares, merchandise, products, or services for future delivery from place to
place, house to house, door to door, or street to street, whether the person
collects advance payments for such sales or not; but excluding calling upon or
soliciting business establishments, professional offices, or institutions,
exclusively, or calling on prospective customers by appointment only. (Ord. 19-
25, 5-19-2025)
4-5A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person may engage in business as a solicitor without first obtaining
a license therefor and paying the license fee. (Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5A-3: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter does not apply to the following:
   A.   Vendors of goods, merchandise, or services delivered or sold to
established customers;
   B.   Nonprofit organizations filed under or authorized by chapter 504 of the
Iowa Code or authorized and organized under statutes or regulations of the
United States government or approved by the Internal Revenue Service, where
such organizations have a permanent office in Dubuque County, Iowa;
   C.   Churches and public and private schools and colleges that have a
permanent office in Dubuque County, Iowa;
   D.   Nonprofit clubs and lodges not ordinarily conducted as a business and
which do not meet the requirements of chapter 504 of the Iowa Code and that
have a permanent office in Dubuque County, Iowa;
   E.   Persons selling their own art or handicrafts either by themselves or
through employees, or nonprofit civic, charitable, religious, or educational
groups or members or employees thereof engaged in retail sale for the purpose
of fundraising;
   F.   Persons that purchase gold, bullion, ingots, precious metals, and
jewelry. Such persons are subject to the pawnbroker and secondhand dealer
regulations set forth in chapter 6, article A of this title.
   G.   Persons that prepare, market or sell food from a mobile vending unit or
mobile pushcart. (Ord. 23-19, 5-6-2019; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5A-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   An application for a solicitor’s license must be filed at the City
Clerk’s Office on a form provided by the City Clerk.
   B.   The chief of police will investigate each applicant for a solicitor
license and a report of such investigation will be attached to the application
for consideration by the city clerk.
   C.   The city clerk will, in consultation with the chief of police and upon
receipt of an application, with an appropriate bond attached, approve or reject
the application considering:
      1.   Whether the statements and representations contained in the
application are true;
      2.   Whether the applicant is the holder of an Iowa retailer’s sales tax
permit, when required/if applicable; and
      3.   If a foreign corporation, whether the entity has the authority to do
business in the state of Iowa.
   D.   If, upon receipt and review of an application, it is determined that
the applicant has a pending criminal charge which upon conviction would result
in denial of a license, the city clerk reserves the right to place the
application on hold for up to fourteen (14) days pending resolution of the
criminal charge.
      1.   It is the applicant’s responsibility to provide any updated
information on the outstanding charge(s).
      1.   At the conclusion of fourteen (14) days the City Clerk shall resume
processing of the application.
   E.   A license is valid only for the period of time described in the
application. (Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5A-5: BOND:
An applicant for a license must file with the City Clerk a surety bond in the
amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) conditioned on the following:
   A.   That the applicant will fully comply with all ordinances of the City
and laws regulating solicitor sales;
   B.   The payment by the applicant of all taxes that may be payable by or due
from the applicant to the State of Iowa or the City of Dubuque;
   C.   The payment of any fines that may be assessed by any court against the
applicant for violation of the provisions of this chapter;
   D.   The payment and satisfaction of any and all causes of action against
the applicant commenced within one year from the date of sale and arising from
such sale; provided, however, that the aggregate liability of the surety for
all such taxes, fines, and causes of action must in no event exceed the
principal sum of such bond; and
   E.   Guaranteeing to any resident of the city that all monies paid will be
accounted for and applied according to the representation of the licensee. Said
bond will continue in force as to such surety for not less than one year from
the date of the license. Action on such bond may be brought by any resident of
the city. (Ord. 16-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5A-6: FEES:
A solicitor must pay a license fee established by the city manager. (Ord. 16-
13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5A-7: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
A solicitor shall keep such license in possession at all times while doing
business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective customers,
exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements of this
chapter. (Ord. 16-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5A-8: MISREPRESENTATION:
It is unlawful for any solicitor making sales or engaging in or conducting a
business under a solicitor’s license to make any false or misleading statement
or representation regarding any article sold or offered for sale by such
solicitor as to condition, quality, original cost, or cost to such solicitor of
any article sold or offered for sale, or to sell or offer for sale goods,
wares, products, or merchandise of a value in excess of the value thereof as
shown by said application, or to sell or offer for sale at retail any goods,
wares, products, or merchandise or to engage in or conduct an intermittent or
temporary business on any day or at any place other than those shown by such
license. A solicitor who violates any provision of this chapter is ineligible
for a license for a period of two (2) years from the date of such violation.
(Ord. 16-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5A-9: DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The city clerk may, upon good cause, deny issuance or renewal of a
license or suspend or revoke any license issued under this article for a period
not to exceed one year for any of the following:
      1.   Violation of any federal, state, or local law, including, but not
limited to, a violation of this chapter or any other chapter of this code;
      2.   Misrepresentation of any material fact in the application for a
license;
      3.   Failure to cooperate with law enforcement;
      4.   The applicant, licensee, owner, manager, partner, corporate officer,
or director has been convicted of a crime involving robbery, burglary, theft,
forgery, fraud, or deceptive practices, the possession, manufacture, or
delivery of a controlled substance, possession with intent to manufacture or
deliver a controlled substance, possession of drug paraphernalia, or nonpayment
of excise taxes for a controlled substance, nonpayment of other taxes, or
demonstrated insolvency;
      5.   Misrepresentation of the source, condition, quality, weight, or
measure of the product sold by such solicitor;
      6.   If any judgment recovered against such solicitor with reference to
the operation of the business within the city remains unpaid for a period of
six (6) months, provided such judgment be not stayed under a supersedeas bond
upon appeal from such judgment;
      7.   The applicant has been convicted in the prior seven (7) year period
of a felony or of any crime involving injury to another person or damage to the
property of another person; or
      8.   The applicant is registered on the national sex offender registry.
   B.   A plea of guilty, no contest, or a plea agreement resulting in a
conviction to a lesser charge may be considered the equivalent of a conviction
for purposes of evaluating eligibility for a permit under
4-5-10(A).
   C.   The city clerk must give written notice of the revocation, suspension,
or denial of renewal of any license issued under the provisions of this chapter
to the license holder and the surety or sureties furnishing the bond provided
for herein. (Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5A-10: APPEAL:
Within ten (10) days after notice of denial, suspension, or revocation of a
license, a solicitor may file with the city clerk a written notice of appeal to
the city manager from such denial, suspension, or revocation. The city manager
must provide the solicitor with notice and an opportunity to be heard on the
issue of whether the license was properly denied, suspended, or revoked. (Ord.
16-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5A-11: PERSONAL NATURE; TRANSFERABILITY:
The solicitor’s license granted under this chapter is personal to the applicant
only and may not be sold, assigned, or otherwise transferred. (Ord. 16-13, 3-4-
2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5A-12: REPORT TO CITY CLERK UPON LOSS REQUIRED:
In the event any license issued under this chapter is lost or mislaid, the
licensee must report such fact to the city clerk immediately. A duplicate
license will be issued upon payment of the fee as established by the city
manager. (Ord. 16-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5A-13: MUSIC:
No loudspeaker or other sound system which may disturb the peace is permitted
while soliciting. Music is permitted to draw attention to the sales operation
but shall not be of a magnitude to create a disturbance in the area where the
solicitor locates. (Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
ARTICLE B. TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
4-5B-1: Definitions
4-5B-2: License Required
4-5B-3: Exemptions
4-5B-4: Application For License
4-5B-5: Bond
4-5B-6: Fees
4-5B-7: Display Of License
4-5B-8: Misrepresentation
4-5B-9: Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of License
4-5B-10: Appeal
4-5B-11: Personal Nature; Transferability
4-5B-12: Report To City Clerk Upon Loss Required
4-5B-13: Music
4-5B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following term has the following meaning:
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any business that engages in selling goods, wares,
merchandise, products, or services from any fixed or temporary location, which
is temporarily maintained or when such business is intermittently carried on
and there is no intention to conduct the same permanently within the City. Any
person is presumed to be temporarily or intermittently selling or offering to
sell goods or services, unless such person intends to and does remain
continuously in business at each location where such sales are offered for a
period of more than sixty (60) days. (Ord. 16-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-
19-2025)
4-5B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person may engage in business as a transient merchant without first
obtaining a license therefor and paying the license fee.
   B.   No person having control of private property within the City may
knowingly permit another person to engage in business on or about that property
as a transient merchant without first requiring that person to obtain a license
therefor. (Ord. 16-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5B-3: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter does not apply to the following:
   A.   Vendors of goods, merchandise, or services delivered or sold to
established customers;
   B.   Nonprofit organizations filed under or authorized by chapter 504 of the
Iowa Code or authorized and organized under statutes or regulations of the
United States government or approved by the Internal Revenue Service, where
such organizations have a permanent office in Dubuque County, Iowa;
   C.   Churches and public and private schools and colleges that have a
permanent office in Dubuque County, Iowa;
   D.   Nonprofit clubs and lodges not ordinarily conducted as a business and
which do not meet the requirements of chapter 504 of the Iowa Code and that
have a permanent office in Dubuque County, Iowa;
   E.   Persons selling at wholesale to merchants, persons selling their own
art or handicrafts either by themselves or through employees, or nonprofit
civic, charitable, religious, or educational groups or members or employees
thereof engaged in retail sale for the purpose of fundraising;
   F.   Central Market and other permitted farmers' market businesses licensed
in accordance with this Code; or
   G.   Persons that purchase gold, bullion, ingots, precious metals, and
jewelry. Such persons are subject to the pawnbroker and secondhand dealer
regulations set forth in chapter 6, article A of this title.
   H.   Persons that prepare, market or sell food from a mobile vending unit or
mobile pushcart. (Ord. 23-19, 5-6-2019; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5B-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   An application for a transient merchant license must be filed at the
City Clerk's Office on a form provided by the City Clerk.
   B.   The chief of police will investigate each business owner applying for a
transient merchant license and a report of such investigation will be attached
to the application for consideration by the city clerk.
   C.   If, upon receipt and review of an application, it is determined that
the applicant has a pending criminal charge which upon conviction would result
in denial of a license, the city clerk reserves the right to place the
application on hold for up to fourteen (14) days pending resolution of the
criminal charge.
      1.   It is the applicant's responsibility to provide any updated
information on the outstanding charge(s).
      2.   At the conclusion of fourteen (14) days the City Clerk shall resume
processing of the application.
   D.   The city clerk will, in consultation with the chief of police and upon
receipt of an application, with an appropriate bond attached, approve or reject
the application considering:
      1.   Whether the statements and representations contained in the
application are true;
      2.   Whether the applicant is the holder of an Iowa retailer's sales tax
permit, when required/if applicable; and
      3.   If a foreign corporation, whether the entity has the authority to do
business in the state of Iowa.
   E.   A license is valid only for the period of time and at the location and
place described in the application. In the event a qualified applicant intends
to conduct business or engage in sales activities from multiple locations, a
separate application shall be submitted, and a distinct license shall be
obtained and approved for each individual location. (Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5B-5: BOND:
An applicant for a license must file with the City Clerk a surety bond in the
amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) conditioned on the following:
   A.   That the applicant will fully comply with all ordinances of the City
and laws regulating transient merchant sales;
   B.   The payment by the applicant of all taxes that may be payable by or due
from the applicant to the State of Iowa or the City of Dubuque;
   C.   The payment of any fines that may be assessed by any court against the
applicant for violation of the provisions of this chapter;
   D.   The payment and satisfaction of any and all causes of action against
the applicant commenced within one year from the date of sale and arising from
such sale; provided, however, that the aggregate liability of the surety for
all such taxes, fines, and causes of action must in no event exceed the
principal sum of such bond; and
   E.   Guaranteeing to any resident of the city that all monies paid will be
accounted for and applied according to the representation of the licensee. Said
bond will continue in force as to such surety for not less than one year from
the date of the license. Action on such bond may be brought by any resident of
the city. (Ord. 16-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5B-6: FEES:
A transient merchant must pay a license fee established by the city manager.
(Ord. 16-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5B-7: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
A transient merchant must, at all times while doing business in this city,
prominently display the license for the period of time and at the location and
place described in the application so that it is clearly visible to anyone to
whom the person is selling or offering for sale goods, merchandise, products,
or services. The licensee must also, at the time of selling or offering for
sale goods, merchandise, products, or services, provide each prospective
customer with an opportunity to view the license. (Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5B-8: MISREPRESENTATION:
It is unlawful for any transient merchant making sales or engaging in or
conducting a business under a transient merchant's license to make any false or
misleading statement or representation regarding any article sold or offered
for sale by such transient merchant as to condition, quality, original cost, or
cost to such transient merchant of any article sold or offered for sale, or to
sell or offer for sale goods, wares, products, or merchandise of a value in
excess of the value thereof as shown by said application, or to sell or offer
for sale at retail any goods, wares, products, or merchandise or to engage in
or conduct an intermittent or temporary business on any day or at any place
other than those shown by such license. A transient merchant who violates any
provision of this chapter is ineligible for a license for a period of two (2)
years from the date of such violation. (Ord. 16-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25,
5-19-2025)
4-5B-9: DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The city clerk may, upon good cause, deny issuance or renewal of a
license or suspend or revoke any license issued under this article for any of
the following:
      1.   Violation of any federal, state, or local law, including, but not
limited to, a violation of this chapter or any other chapter of this code;
      2.   Misrepresentation of any material fact in the application for a
license;
      3.   Failure to cooperate with law enforcement;
      4.   The licensee, owner, manager, partner, corporate officer, or
director has been convicted of a crime involving robbery, burglary, theft,
forgery, fraud, or deceptive practices, the possession, manufacture, or
delivery of a controlled substance, possession with intent to manufacture or
deliver a controlled substance, possession of drug paraphernalia, or nonpayment
of excise taxes for a controlled substance, nonpayment of other taxes, or
demonstrated insolvency;
      5.   Misrepresentation of the source, condition, quality, weight, or
measure of the product sold by such transient merchant;
      6.   If any judgment recovered against such transient merchant with
reference to the operation of the business within the city remains unpaid for a
period of six (6) months, provided such judgment be not stayed under a
supersedeas bond upon appeal from such judgment;
      7.   The owner has been convicted in the prior seven (7) year period of a
felony or of any crime involving injury to another person or damage to the
property of another person; or
      8.   The owner is registered on the national sex offender registry.
   B.   A plea of guilty, no contest, or a plea agreement resulting in a
conviction to a lesser charge may be considered the equivalent of a conviction
for purposes of evaluating eligibility for a permit under this section.
   C.   The city clerk must give written notice of the revocation, suspension,
or denial of renewal of any license issued under the provisions of this chapter
to the license holder and the surety or sureties furnishing the bond provided
for herein. (Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5B-10: APPEAL:
Within ten (10) days after notice of denial, suspension, or revocation of a
license, a transient merchant applicant may file with the city clerk a written
notice of appeal to the city manager from such denial, suspension, or
revocation. The city manager must provide the applicant with notice and an
opportunity to be heard on the issue of whether the license was properly
denied, suspended, or revoked. (Ord. 16-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-
2025)
4-5B-11: PERSONAL NATURE; TRANSFERABILITY:
The transient merchant's license granted under this chapter is personal to the
owner only and may not be sold, assigned, or otherwise transferred. (Ord. 16-
13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5B-12: REPORT TO CITY CLERK UPON LOSS REQUIRED:
In the event any license issued under this chapter is lost or mislaid, the
licensee must report such fact to the city clerk immediately. A duplicate
license will be issued upon payment of the fee as established by the city
manager. (Ord. 16-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
4-5B-13: MUSIC:
No loudspeaker or other sound system which may disturb the peace is permitted
while soliciting. Music from a vendor unit is permitted to draw attention to
the sales operation but shall not be of a magnitude to create a disturbance in
the area where the transient merchant locates. (Ord. 19-25, 5-19-2025)
CHAPTER 6
PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS;
JUNK AND AUTO SALVAGE DEALERS
ARTICLE A. PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
4-6A-1: Definitions
4-6A-2: Penalties
4-6A-3: License
4-6A-4: Persons Eligible
4-6A-5: Application Contents
4-6A-6: Investigation Of Applicant And Premises
4-6A-7: Proof Of Financial Responsibility
4-6A-8: Display Of License
4-6A-9: Exemptions From Article
4-6A-10: Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of License
4-6A-11: Required Records
4-6A-12: Prohibited Acts
4-6A-13: Inspection
4-6A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions apply:
CITY MANAGER: The city manager or the city manager's designee.
PAWNBROKER: Any person who makes loans or advancements upon pawn, pledge, or
deposit of personal property, who receives actual possession of personal
property as security for a loan, with or without a mortgage or bill of sale,
who receives actual possession of property for resale, or otherwise holds
himself or herself out as a pawnbroker.
PERSON OF GOOD MORAL CHARACTER: A person who meets all of the following
requirements:
   A.   The person has such financial standing and good reputation as will
satisfy the city council that the person will comply with all the laws,
provisions of this code, other city ordinances, and regulations applicable to
the person's operations under state law. However, the city council will not
require the person to post a bond to meet the requirements of this subsection;
   B.   The applicant is a citizen or legal resident of the United States; in
the case of a corporation, is licensed to do business in the state of Iowa; or
in the case of a partnership, only one general partner needs to be a citizen or
legal resident;
   C.   The person has not been convicted of a felony. However, if a conviction
of a felony occurred more than five (5) years before the application for a
license or permit and if the person's rights of citizenship have been restored,
the city manager may determine that said person is a person of moral character
notwithstanding the conviction; and
   D.   The person has not been convicted of a crime involving robbery,
burglary, theft, forgery, fraud, or deceptive practices, the possession,
manufacture, or delivery of a controlled substance, possession with intent to
manufacture or deliver a controlled substance, possession of drug
paraphernalia, or nonpayment of excise taxes for a controlled substance,
nonpayment of other taxes, or demonstrated insolvency.
The requirements of this definition apply to the following:
   A.   Each of the officers, directors, and partners of such person.
   B.   A person who directly or indirectly owns or controls ten percent (10%)
or more of any class of stock of such person.
   C.   A person who directly or indirectly has an interest of ten percent
(10%) or more in the ownership or profits of such person.
SECONDHAND DEALER: Any person who purchases or receives used goods or materials
for the purpose of resale including, but not limited to:
   Bicycles.
   Coins.
   Collectibles.
   Computers, software, and computer accessories.
   Construction equipment.
   Electronic equipment.
   Firearms.
   Glassware.
   Household appliances.
   Hunting and fishing equipment.
   Jewelry.
   Lawn and garden tools, equipment, and furnishings.
   Motor vehicle parts and equipment.
   Motor vehicles.
   Musical instruments.
   Photographic/video parts and equipment.
   Precious and semiprecious stones.
   Precious metals in the form of bullion or ingots.
   Radio equipment.
   Rare books.
   Silver/silverware.
   Sporting goods.
   Stereo equipment.
   Television equipment.
   Tools.
   Untitled motor vehicles.
   Video game systems, originally manufactured with a serial number.
   Works of art.
   Nonprofit corporations and businesses which are not primarily engaged in the
sale of secondhand goods are exempt from this article. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013;
amd. Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6A-2: PENALTIES:
Failure to comply with this article is a violation of this code and is
punishable as provided in title 1 of this code. Each day of noncompliance with
this article is a separate offense. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6A-3: LICENSE:
   A.   License Required; Application: No person may engage in the business of
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer without first obtaining a license therefor.
Applications for such licenses must be filed with the city clerk and the
license issued by the city clerk. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
   B.   License Authorization: The license serves as authorization for a
particular person to engage in business at a specific location.
   C.   Annual Renewal; Nonrefundable Fee; License Term:
      1.   The license for pawnbrokers or secondhand dealers must be renewed
annually.
      2.   A nonrefundable fee established by the city manager will be
collected at the time of renewal.
      3.   All licenses expire on February 1 of each year. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-
2013)
4-6A-4: PERSONS ELIGIBLE:
Subject to the requirements of this article, a person who is of good moral
character may apply for a license. In the case of a club, corporation, or
partnership, the officers of the club or corporation and the partners of a
partnership must be persons of good moral character as defined by state law and
this article. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6A-5: APPLICATION CONTENTS:
Applications for the original issuance or the renewal of licenses must be filed
at the time and in the number of copies as the city manager prescribes, on
forms prescribed by the city manager, and must set forth under oath the
following information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant;
   B.   The precise location of the premises for which a license is sought;
   C.   The names and addresses of all persons, or in the case of a
corporation, the officers, directors, and persons owning or controlling ten
percent (10%) or more of the capital stock thereof, having a financial
interest, by way of loan, ownership, or otherwise in the business;
   D.   A statement whether any person specified in subsection C of this
section has ever been convicted of any offense against the laws of the United
States, or any state or territory thereof, or any political subdivision of any
such state or territory; and (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
   E.   Such other information as the city manager requires. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-
2013)
4-6A-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT AND PREMISES:
Upon receipt of an original application for a license, the city clerk will
forward the application to the chief of police, who will conduct an
investigation and submit a written report on the applicant as to the truth of
the facts averred in the application and a recommendation to the city manager
as to the approval of the license or permit. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013)
4-6A-7: PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers who receive actual possession of property
for resale with an agreement to return the property to the owner within a
specified period of time must furnish proof of financial responsibility by
posting bond in such amount as determined by the city manager. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-
2014)
4-6A-8: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The license provided for herein is valid only for the location designated in
the application and must be prominently displayed therein at all times. (Ord.
14-13, 3-4-2013)
4-6A-9: EXEMPTIONS FROM ARTICLE:
This article does not apply to or include the following:
   A.   Solicitors governed by chapter 5 of this title, except for purchasers
of gold, bullion, ingots, precious metals, and jewelry who are subject to the
provisions of these pawnbroker and secondhand dealer regulations.
   B.   The sale of secondhand goods as follows: (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
      1.   The sale is held on property occupied as a dwelling by the seller or
owned, rented, or leased by a charitable or political organization;
      2.   The items offered for sale are owned by the occupant or seller; that
no sale exceeds a period of seventy two (72) consecutive hours; and that no
more than three (3) sales are held in any twelve (12) month period;
      3.   The sale of goods at an auction held by a licensed auctioneer;
      4.   A bulk sale of property from a merchant, manufacturer, or wholesaler
having an established place of business or open sale from bankrupt stock; (Ord.
14-13, 3-4-2013)
      5.   Goods sold at a public market, such as farmers' market; or (Ord. 2-
14, 1-6-2014)
      6.   CDs, DVDs, videotapes, and other similar mediums of transmitting
images or sounds, video games, and gaming systems that are not originally
manufactured with a serial number.
   C.   Items bought, sold, or traded under a federal firearms license.
   D.   The return of secondhand items for credit, exchange or refund to the
person from whom said items were originally obtained, provided that the items
were not secondhand items when originally obtained. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013)
   E.   Beverage containers.
   F.   Scrap paper. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6A-10: DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Reasons For Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation: The city manager may,
upon good cause, deny issuance or renewal of a license or suspend or revoke any
license issued under this article for a period not to exceed one year for any
of the following:
      1.   Violation of any federal, state, or local law; (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
      2.   Misrepresentation of any material fact in the application for a
license; (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013)
      3.   Failure to cooperate with law enforcement; or (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
      4.   The licensee, owner, manager, partner, corporate officer, or
director has been convicted of a crime involving robbery, burglary, theft,
forgery, fraud, or deceptive practices, the possession, manufacture, or
delivery of a controlled substance, possession with intent to manufacture or
deliver a controlled substance, possession of drug paraphernalia, or nonpayment
of excise taxes for a controlled substance, nonpayment of other taxes, or
demonstrated insolvency.
   B.   Holding Other Licenses During License Suspension: Any licensee whose
license is suspended may not, during said suspension, hold any other license
under this chapter.
   C.   License Revocation; Time Period For Reapplication: Any licensee whose
license is revoked may not apply for any license under this article for one
year following the revocation.
   D.   Issuance To Relatives Or Financially Interested Persons During License
Suspension: No new license will be issued to the spouse, relative within the
first degree of consanguinity as defined by the Iowa Code, or any person
holding a financial interest in the licensed premises during the period the
license has been suspended. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013)
   E.   Notice Of License Suspension Or Revocation: The city manager will cause
to be issued a notice that said license is suspended or revoked and therein set
forth the reason(s) therefor. Said notice must be sent to the licensee by
certified United States mail to the registered business address on file with
the city clerk or by personal service as provided by Iowa law. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-
2014)
   F.   Appeal City Manager Decision To City Council: A written notice of
appeal to the city council from a decision of the city manager must be filed
with the city clerk by the licensee within ten (10) days from the receipt of
the notice of suspension or revocation. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013)
4-6A-11: REQUIRED RECORDS:
   A.   Pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers must provide an electronic
transaction of all articles of any kind purchased or received using the city's
electronic reporting system as approved by the city manager. Businesses that
sell, deal, or trade in electronic media/gaming systems must report all
merchandise originally manufactured with a serial number.
The report must be a full, true, and complete report of all goods, wares,
merchandise, or items obtained on deposit, pledge, or purchase, or otherwise
received, and must contain the following: (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
      1.   A description of the person from whom the goods were acquired,
including:
         a.   Name, address, phone number, height, weight, date of birth, race,
gender, hair color, eye color, and any other identifying marks; and
         b.   Means of identification used including the type exhibited, the
issuing agency, and the number thereon;
      2.   Date, time, and place of the transaction;
      3.   A detailed and accurate description of each article received
including make, model, serial number, or identifying mark(s); (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-
2013)
      4.   A record of whether the transaction was a purchase, security,
consignment transaction, or donation; and
      5.   A record of monies paid or loaned and which may be maintained
separately but which must be available for inspection in the course of
examination of individual transactions.
The electronic reporting system will provide for an upload of a complete
electronic report. Each "pawnbroker" and "secondhand dealer" as defined by this
article must at the end of each day provide an electronic upload to the
electronic reporting system of all transactions that occurred during that
business day. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6A-12: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Purchases From Minors Restricted: No pawnbroker or secondhand dealer,
and no clerk, agent, or employee thereof may purchase or receive property from
any person under the age of eighteen (18) years without first obtaining and
receiving the written consent of the parent or guardian of such person. Such
written consent must be made a part of the required records and subject to all
provisions of this article.
   B.   Altered Or Tampered With Serial Numbers: No pawnbroker or secondhand
dealer, and no clerk, agent, or employee thereof may receive any goods or
materials presented with an altered or tampered with serial number. (Ord. 14-
13, 3-4-2013)
   C.   Identification Required: No pawnbroker or secondhand dealer may receive
any goods or materials unless the seller presents one picture identification or
two (2) other forms of identification. Proper identification consists of, but
is not limited to, driver's license, picture identification, birth certificate,
draft card, military identification card, and/or major credit card. (Ord. 2-14,
1-6-2014)
   D.   Display Of Goods: No goods or merchandise may be stored or displayed on
any public right of way, public street, sidewalk, alley, or public parking
area. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013)
   E.   Jewelry: Antique, new, used, or scrap jewelry, and precious metals may
not be changed in form by melting, remounting, cutting up, or otherwise
changing the form of said items for a period of five (5) days from the time of
purchase of said items. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6A-13: INSPECTION:
   A.   The licensee must, during business hours, permit a duly authorized
police officer to inspect the entire premises covered by the license, including
all records that may have any relationship to the operation of the business.
   B.   The police may seize, with proper seizure notice, or require the
licensee to hold property which the police have probable cause to believe is
stolen property. A receipt will be given to the licensee for all property
seized. If the police have not seized or picked up the property within thirty
(30) days from the date of notification to the licensee, said licensee may
dispose of the property. Said licensee may petition the court at the conclusion
of any criminal investigation and/or proceeding for return of any unclaimed
merchandise confiscated from their possession related to the investigation or
prosecution. Said licensee may also be eligible for assistance from the state
of Iowa crime victim compensation fund. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
ARTICLE B. JUNK DEALERS AND AUTO SALVAGE DEALERS
SECTION:
4-6B-1: Definitions
4-6B-2: Penalties
4-6B-3: License
4-6B-4: Persons Eligible
4-6B-5: Application Contents
4-6B-6: Investigation Of Applicant And Premises
4-6B-7: Display Of License
4-6B-8: Exemptions From Article
4-6B-9: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of License
4-6B-10: Required Records
4-6B-11: Prohibited Acts
4-6B-12: Purchases Or Donation Transactions
4-6B-13: Inspection
4-6B-14: Screening Requirements For Junk And Salvage Operations
4-6B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions apply:
AUTO SALVAGE DEALER: Any person who engages in the business of buying or
receiving motor vehicles, motorcycles, motorized bicycles, or parts thereof, or
tires for resale in whole or in part as junk or as used parts.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager or the city manager's designee.
JUNK: Old or scrap copper, aluminum, brass, iron, steel, old or scrap ferrous
or nonferrous material, wire, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber
debris, waste, or junked, dismantled, wrecked, or parts of motor vehicles,
motorcycles, or motorized bicycles.
JUNK DEALER: Any person who purchases or receives any of the items listed in
subsection 4-6B-12A of this article for the purpose of resale and who possesses
a state of Iowa retail sales tax permit.
PERSON OF GOOD MORAL CHARACTER: Any person who meets all of the following
requirements:
   A.   The person has such financial standing and good reputation as will
satisfy the city council that the person will comply with all the laws,
provisions of this code, other city ordinances, and regulations applicable to
the person's operations under state law. However, the city council will not
require the person to post a bond to meet the requirements of this subsection;
   B.   The applicant is a citizen or legal resident of the United States; in
the case of a corporation, is licensed to do business in the state of Iowa; or
in the case of a partnership, only one general partner needs to be a citizen or
legal resident;
   C.   The person has not been convicted of a felony. However, if a conviction
of a felony occurred more than five (5) years before the application for a
license or permit and if the person's rights of citizenship have been restored,
the city manager may determine that said person is a person of moral character
notwithstanding the conviction; and
   D.   The person has not been convicted of a crime involving robbery,
burglary, theft, forgery, fraud, or deceptive practices, the possession,
manufacture, or delivery of a controlled substance, possession with intent to
manufacture or deliver a controlled substance, possession of drug
paraphernalia, or nonpayment of excise taxes for a controlled substance,
nonpayment of other taxes, or demonstrated insolvency.
The requirements of this definition apply to the following:
   A.   Each of the officers, directors, and partners of such person.
   B.   A person who directly or indirectly owns or controls ten percent (10%)
or more of any class of stock of such person.
   C.   A person who directly or indirectly has an interest of ten percent
(10%) or more in the ownership or profits of such person. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-
2013; amd. Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6B-2: PENALTIES:
Failure to comply with this article is a violation of this code and is
punishable as provided in title 1 of this code. Each day of noncompliance with
this article is a separate offense. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6B-3: LICENSE:
   A.   License Required; Application: No person may engage in the business of
junk dealer or auto salvage dealer without first obtaining a license therefor.
Applications for such licenses must be filed with the city clerk and the
license issued by the city clerk. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
   B.   License Authorization: The license serves as authorization for a
particular person to engage in business at a specific location.
   C.   Annual Renewal; Nonrefundable Fee; License Term:
      1.   The license for junk dealers or auto salvage dealers must be renewed
annually.
      2.   A nonrefundable fee established by the city manager will be
collected at the time of renewal.
      3.   All licenses expire on February 1 of each year. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-
2013)
4-6B-4: PERSONS ELIGIBLE:
Subject to the requirements of this article, a person who is of good moral
character may apply for a license. In the case of a club, corporation, or
partnership, the officers of the club or corporation and the partners of a
partnership must be persons of good moral character as defined by state law and
this article. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6B-5: APPLICATION CONTENTS:
Applications for the original issuance or the renewal of licenses must be filed
at the time and in the number of copies as the city manager prescribes, on
forms prescribed by the city manager, and must set forth under oath the
following information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant;
   B.   The precise location of the premises for which a license is sought;
   C.   The names and addresses of all persons, or in the case of a
corporation, the officers, directors, and persons owning or controlling ten
percent (10%) or more of the capital stock thereof, having a financial
interest, by way of loan, ownership, or otherwise in the business;
   D.   A statement whether any person specified in subsection C of this
section has ever been convicted of any offense against the laws of the United
States, or any state or territory thereof, or any political subdivision of any
such state or territory; and (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
   E.   Such other information as the city manager requires. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-
2013)
4-6B-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT AND PREMISES:
Upon receipt of an original application for a license, the city clerk will
forward the application to the chief of police, who will conduct an
investigation and submit a written report on the applicant as to the truth of
the facts averred in the application and a recommendation to the city manager
as to the approval of the license. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6B-7: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The license provided for herein is valid only for the location designated in
the application and must be prominently displayed therein at all times. (Ord.
14-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6B-8: EXEMPTIONS FROM ARTICLE:
This article does not apply to or include solicitors governed by chapter 5 of
this title. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6B-9: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Reasons For Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation: The city manager may,
upon good cause, deny issuance or renewal of a license or suspend or revoke any
license issued under this article for a period not to exceed one year for any
of the following:
      1.   Violation of any federal, state, or local law; (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
      2.   Misrepresentation of any material fact in the application for a
license; (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
      3.   Failure to cooperate with law enforcement; or (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
      4.   The licensee, owner, manager, partner, corporate officer, or
director has been convicted of a crime involving robbery, burglary, theft,
forgery, fraud, or deceptive practices, the possession, manufacture, or
delivery of a controlled substance, possession with intent to manufacture or
deliver a controlled substance, possession of drug paraphernalia, or nonpayment
of excise taxes for a controlled substance, nonpayment of other taxes, or
demonstrated insolvency.
   B.   Holding Other Licenses During License Suspension: Any licensee whose
license is suspended may not, during said suspension, hold any other license
under this article.
   C.   License Revocation; Time Period For Reapplication: Any licensee whose
license is revoked may not apply for any license under this article for one
year following the revocation.
   D.   Issuance To Relatives Or Financially Interested Persons During License
Suspension: No new license will be issued to the spouse, relative within the
first degree of consanguinity as defined by the Iowa Code, or any person
holding a financial interest in the licensed premises during the period the
license has been suspended.
   E.   Issuance To Relatives Or Financially Interested Persons Following
License Revocation: No new license under this article will be issued to the
spouse or relative within the first degree of consanguinity as defined by the
Iowa Code or any person holding a financial interest in the licensed premises
for one year after revocation. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
   F.   Notice Of License Suspension Or Revocation: The city manager will cause
to be issued a notice that said license is suspended or revoked and therein set
forth the reason(s) therefor. Said notice must be sent to the licensee by
certified United States mail to the registered business address on file with
the city clerk or by personal service as provided by Iowa law. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-
2014)
   G.   Appeal City Manager Decision To City Council: A written notice of
appeal to the city council from a decision of the city manager must be filed
with the city clerk by the licensee within ten (10) days from the receipt of
the notice of suspension or revocation. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 2-14,
1-6-2014)
4-6B-10: REQUIRED RECORDS:
   A.   Junk dealers must maintain a record of all articles of any kind
purchased or received. The record must be a full, true, and complete report of
all goods, wares, merchandise, or items obtained on deposit, pledge, or
purchase, or otherwise received, and must contain the following: (Ord. 2-14, 1-
6-2014)
      1.   A description of the person from whom the goods were acquired,
including:
         a.   Name, address, phone number, date of birth, and general
description of the person; and
         b.   Means of identification used including the type exhibited, the
issuing agency, and the number thereon;
      2.   Date, time, and place of the transaction;
      3.   A detailed and accurate description of each article received
including make, model, serial number, or identifying mark(s). In the case of
junk, a general description of the composition of aggregate purchase is
sufficient;
      4.   A record of whether the transaction was a purchase or donation;
      5.   A record of monies paid which may be maintained separately but which
must be available for inspection in the course of examination of individual
transactions; and
      6.   A record of the name, address, and how an article was disposed of.
(Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
   B.   Auto salvage dealers must maintain a record of all articles of any kind
purchased or received. The record must be a full, true, and complete report of
all goods, wares, merchandise, or items obtained on deposit, pledge, or
purchase, or otherwise received. The report must contain the following: (Ord.
2-14, 1-6-2014)
      1.   A description of the person from whom the goods were acquired,
including:
         a.   Name, address, phone number, date of birth, and general
description of the person; and
         b.   Means of identification used including the type exhibited, the
issuing agency, and the number thereon;
      2.   Date, time, and place of the transaction;
      3.   A description of each article received including make, model, serial
number, or identifying mark(s);
      4.   A record of whether the transaction was a purchase or donation;
      5.   A record of monies paid which may be maintained separately but which
must be available for inspection in the course of examination of individual
transactions;
      6.   A record of the name, address, and how an article was disposed of;
and
      7.   The vehicle identification number (VIN) and all records as required
by the department of transportation. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 2-14, 1-
6-2014)
4-6B-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Purchases From Minors Restricted: No junk dealer or auto salvage
dealer, and no clerk, agent, or employee thereof may purchase or receive
property from any person under the age of eighteen (18) years without first
obtaining and receiving the written consent of the parent or guardian of such
person. Such written consent must be made a part of the required records and
subject to all provisions of this article.
   B.   Altered Or Tampered With Serial Numbers: No junk dealer or auto salvage
dealer, and no clerk, agent, or employee thereof may receive any goods or
materials presented that have an altered or tampered with serial number or
vehicle identification number for items originally manufactured with a serial
number or vehicle identification number. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 2-14,
1-6-2014)
   C.   Identification Required: No junk dealer or auto salvage dealer may
receive any goods or materials unless the seller presents one picture
identification or two (2) other forms of identification. Proper identification
consists of, but is not limited to, driver's license, picture identification,
birth certificate, draft card, military identification card, and/or major
credit card. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
   D.   Display Of Goods: No goods or merchandise may be stored or displayed on
any public right of way, public street, sidewalk, alley, or public parking
area. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6B-12: PURCHASES OR DONATION TRANSACTIONS:
   A.   Application Of Article To Certain Goods And Materials: The purchase or
receipt of the following listed goods or materials as a purchase or a donation
is governed by this article:
         Bicycles.
         Collectibles.
         Computers, software, and computer accessories.
         Construction equipment.
         Electronic equipment.
         Firearms.
         Glassware.
         Household appliances.
         Household furniture.
         Hunting and fishing equipment.
         Jewelry.
         Junk.
         Lawn and garden tools, equipment, and furnishings.
         Motor vehicle parts and equipment.
         Motor vehicles.
         Musical instruments.
         Photographic/video parts and equipment.
         Precious and semiprecious stones.
         Precious metals and coins, including, but not limited to, gold,
silver, platinum, titanium, and tungsten.
         Radio equipment.
         Rare books.
         Silver/silverware.
         Sporting goods.
         Stereo equipment.
         Television equipment.
         Tools.
         Untitled motor vehicles.
         Video game systems, originally manufactured with a serial number.
         Works of art.
   B.   Exempt Items: The following items are exempt from the provisions of
this article:
      1.   Beverage containers; and
      2.   Scrap paper. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6B-13: INSPECTION:
   A.   The licensee must, during business hours, permit a duly authorized
police officer to inspect the entire premises covered by the license, including
all records that may have any relationship to the operation of the business.
   B.   The police may seize, with proper seizure notice, or require the
licensee to hold property which the police have probable cause to believe is
stolen property. A receipt will be given to the licensee for all property
seized. If the police have not seized or picked up the property within thirty
(30) days from the date of notification to the licensee, said licensee may
dispose of the property. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
4-6B-14: SCREENING REQUIREMENTS FOR JUNK AND SALVAGE OPERATIONS:
   A.   Approval Of Screening Plan: An operator of a junkyard/salvage operation
must submit to the city manager a screening plan which must be approved for
each individual premises. The screening plan must integrate the screen with the
natural surroundings and consider and make provisions to assure reasonable
access to the screen for purposes of maintaining the screen.
   B.   Purpose Of Screening: The purpose of screening is to eliminate the
visual impact of the junkyard/salvage operation contents by obscuring it from
view outside the premises.
   C.   Materials For Use In Screening: Materials for use in screening of
junkyard/salvage operation generally consist of natural elements, plantings,
fences, or other appropriate means such as storage sheds, buildings, and other
similar elements.
      1.   Natural elements include earthen berms, rock formations, wooded
areas, or other similar elements.
      2.   Plantings include shrubs and trees of such types as to provide year
round obscurement commensurate with local site conditions. All plant material
used for screening must be of a size and quantity to provide obscurement.
      3.   Screens must be made of wood, metal, or other materials commonly
used in the building trade and be of such height and type as necessary to
provide obscurement. Screens must be designed to withstand a minimum wind load
of twenty (20) pounds per square foot and be of a permanent nature. All
materials used for finishing screens must be a nonreflective material which
will blend with the natural surroundings. Screening must not be placed in any
manner so that either the screen or the maintenance of screen will create or
contribute to the creation of a safety hazard or endanger public safety, nor
will it interfere with the public's use of any right of way.
   D.   Maintenance Requirements: Junkyard/salvage operators must maintain the
screening in a condition equal to the original installation of the screening.
Maintenance includes, but is not limited to, the following items:
      1.   Replacement of plant material which is dead or has been damaged so
that it no longer serves the intended purpose of screening the junkyard/salvage
operation. (Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
      2.   Screen maintenance includes the renewal of the surface treatment
with stains, paints, or other appropriate materials when needed and the
replacement of panels, sections, members, or support structures of the
screening when needed. (Ord. 14-13, 3-4-2013; amd. Ord. 2-14, 1-6-2014)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLES FOR HIRE AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
ARTICLE A. NONMOTORIZED VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-7A-1: Definitions
4-7A-2: Posting Of Rates
4-7A-3: Operation Requirements
4-7A-4: Business License Requirements; Fees; Insurance
4-7A-5: Operator's Permit Requirements
4-7A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
following meanings:
HORSEDRAWN CARRIAGE: A chauffeured nonmotorized vehicle pulled by horses and
engaged in the business of carrying passengers.
NONMOTORIZED VEHICLE: Any conveyance designed to carry an operator and
passengers which is propelled by a means other than a motor.
OPERATOR: Any person who operates a nonmotorized vehicle for the transport of
passengers and who receives compensation for such service in wages or
commissions or who is otherwise paid, directly or indirectly.
PEDICAB: A chauffeured nonmotorized vehicle, propelled by pedals, for the
business of carrying passengers. (Ord. 8-13, 2-18-2013)
4-7A-2: POSTING OF RATES:
No person may operate a nonmotorized vehicle without posting in clear view
within the passenger compartment a printed rate card large enough to be read by
the passengers in the vehicle, showing the rates. (Ord. 8-13, 2-18-2013)
4-7A-3: OPERATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Age Of Operator: The operator of a nonmotorized vehicle must be a
person who is at least eighteen (18) years of age and who holds a valid motor
vehicle operator's license.
   B.   Year Round Operation: The months of operation of a nonmotorized vehicle
may be year round beginning April 1.
   C.   Routes: Nonmotorized vehicles may be operated only on routes within the
Main Street district cultural corridor as established by the city manager. The
city manager may change such routes at any time in the event of a sudden
hazard, construction, special event, or as the city manager otherwise
determines necessary.
   D.   Parking: The operator of a nonmotorized vehicle may stop, stand, or
park at any nonrestricted meters in the Main Street district cultural corridor.
   E.   Stopping For Picking Up Or Dropping Off: When collecting fees or
picking up or dropping off passengers, the operator may stop, stand, or park
the nonmotorized vehicle only in approved locations or parallel to the curb,
taking care not to block traffic lanes, crosswalks, or intersections, or to
otherwise impede the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   F.   Use Of Streets: Nonmotorized vehicles may be operated only on city
streets and may not be operated on sidewalks.
   G.   Conducting Business On Private Property: The operator of a nonmotorized
vehicle may not conduct business on private property without the prior consent
of the property owner.
   H.   Use Of Passenger Compartment: Passengers are limited to the passenger
compartment of the nonmotorized vehicle and may not board or exit the vehicle
while it is in motion or in a traffic lane or intersection.
   I.   Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited: No open alcoholic beverage container or
consumption of alcoholic beverages is allowed in a vehicle or in the possession
of the operator or passengers.
   J.   Posting Notices Of Charges And Routes: The operator of a business
providing nonmotorized vehicle transportation must post notices in each
nonmotorized vehicle and in each waiting room or at each station owned or used
by the operator stating the charges and routes or methods of operation.
   K.   Vehicle Equipment: Nonmotorized vehicles must be equipped with
headlights, taillights, reflectors, and a slow moving vehicle sign.
   L.   Safe Condition Of Vehicle: The owner or operator of a nonmotorized
vehicle must keep it in safe operating condition at all times. The chief of
police is hereby authorized, either on complaint of any person or otherwise, to
inspect a nonmotorized vehicle and upon discovery of any unsafe condition, to
notify the person operating the vehicle to cease operation. Thereupon said
nonmotorized vehicle must be kept off the street until such unsafe condition
has been corrected. (Ord. 8-13, 2-18-2013)
4-7A-4: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS; FEES; INSURANCE:
   A.   Business License Required: No person may operate a pedicab, horsedrawn
carriage, or other nonmotorized passenger transportation business for the
purpose of public transportation, whether or not passengers are charged for the
service, without first obtaining an annual license therefor as provided in this
article.
   B.   Application For Business License:
      1.   An application for a nonmotorized transportation business license
must be filed with the city clerk on a form provided by the city clerk.
      2.   The chief of police will investigate each application for a
nonmotorized transportation business license and a report of such investigation
will be attached to the application for consideration by the city clerk.
   C.   Consideration Of Application: The city clerk will, in consultation with
the chief of police and upon consideration of the application and the
information required herein, approve or reject the application.
   D.   Insurance: Prior to the issuance of a license, the applicant must
submit to the city clerk proof of, and must maintain at all times during
operation of the business, such insurance as the city manager shall determine
appropriate.
   E.   Fees: At the time of issuance of a nonmotorized vehicle license, the
applicant must pay to the city manager a nonmotorized vehicle license fee
established by the city manager.
   F.   Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of License:
      1.   A license may be denied, suspended, or revoked by the city clerk for
good cause, including, but not limited to, any of the following:
misrepresentation on the application for a nonmotorized transportation license,
a violation of any of the provisions of this article, any other ordinances of
the city, or laws of the United States or the state of Iowa which demonstrate
the lack of fitness of the licensee to offer public transportation.
      2.   Prior to the denial, suspension, or revocation, the licensee must be
given not less than ten (10) days' written notice by the city clerk.
      3.   In the event of the denial, suspension, or revocation of a
nonmotorized vehicle license, no other nonmotorized vehicle license may be
issued to the applicant for a period of two (2) years.
   G.   Display: The nonmotorized transportation license must be fastened upon
the vehicle and may not be removed until the expiration of the license.
   H.   Transfer Restricted: No nonmotorized transportation license may be
sold, assigned, mortgaged, or otherwise transferred. (Ord. 8-13, 2-18-2013)
4-7A-5: OPERATOR'S PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Operator's Permit Required: No person may operate a nonmotorized
vehicle for hire upon the streets of the city and no person who owns or
controls such vehicle may permit it to be so driven, and no such vehicle may be
so driven at any time for hire, unless the driver of such vehicle has first
been issued an operator's permit under the provisions of this article.
   B.   Application For Operator's Permit:
      1.   An application for an operator's permit must be filed with the city
clerk on a form provided by the city clerk.
      2.   The city clerk will cause the chief of police to investigate each
applicant for a permit and a report of such investigation will be submitted to
the city clerk. Such report will state whether or not the applicant has a valid
motor vehicle operator's license.
   C.   Consideration Of Application: The city clerk will, upon consideration
of the application and the reports required by this article, approve or reject
the application.
   D.   Issuance Of Permit; Duration; Annual Fee:
      1.   Upon approval of an application for a permit, the city clerk will
issue a permit to the applicant upon the payment of an annual fee as determined
by the city manager. Such permit will be in effect for the remainder of the
calendar year. The permit may be renewed every calendar year thereafter upon
the payment of an annual fee unless the permit for the preceding year has been
denied, suspended, or revoked.
      2.   The operator must wear the permit upon his or her clothing at all
times during the operation of the vehicle.
   E.   Compliance With City, State, And Federal Laws: An operator permitted
under this article must comply with all applicable city, state, and federal
laws in the operation of the nonmotorized vehicle.
   F.   Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   The city clerk may suspend, revoke, or deny issuance of an
operator's permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, any of the
following:
         a.   Failure or refusal to comply with the provisions of this article;
         b.   Violation of any ordinances of the city, or laws of the United
States, the state of Iowa or any other state that demonstrates the lack of
fitness of the holder to offer public transportation; or
         c.   Misrepresentation on the application for an operator's permit;
      2.   Prior to the denial, suspension, or revocation, an operator must be
given not less than ten (10) days' written notice by the city clerk.
      3.   In the event of the denial, revocation, or suspension of an
operator's permit, no other operator's permit may be issued to the person for a
period of one year thereafter.
   G.   Appeal: Within ten (10) days after the denial, suspension or revocation
of an operator's permit, a nonmotorized vehicle operator may file with the city
clerk a written notice of appeal to the city manager from such denial,
suspension, or revocation. The city manager must provide the nonmotorized
vehicle operator with notice and an opportunity to be heard on the issue of
whether the operator's permit was properly denied, suspended, or revoked.
   H.   Personal Nature; Transferability: The nonmotorized vehicle operator's
permit is personal to the operator and may not be sold, assigned, mortgaged, or
otherwise transferred.
   I.   Property Of City Clerk Upon Loss: If any operator's permit issued under
this article is lost or mislaid, the operator must report such fact to the city
clerk immediately. A duplicate permit will be issued upon payment of the fee as
established by the city manager. (Ord. 8-13, 2-18-2013)
ARTICLE B. MOTORIZED VEHICLES FOR HIRE
SECTION:
4-7B-1: Definitions
4-7B-2: Exemptions
4-7B-3: Taximeter Required
4-7B-4: Posting Of Rates
4-7B-5: Manifests
4-7B-6: Open Stands
4-7B-7: Vehicles, License And Maintenance
4-7B-8: Taxicab Business License And Taxicab Driver's Permit
4-7B-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
following meanings:
CHARTER TRANSPORTATION: A vehicle furnished with a driver that carries
passengers for hire either on a fixed route in the city or pursuant to a
written contract with reservations in advance of the service. The vehicle shall
operate without a meter installed and charge for services on an hourly basis or
longer periods of time.
DRIVER: Any person who operates a motor vehicle in the transportation of
persons and who receives any compensation for such service in wages or
commissions or who is otherwise paid, directly or indirectly.
EXTRA LUGGAGE: Luggage in excess of two (2) suitcases per person.
MANIFEST: A daily record prepared by a taxicab driver of all trips made by said
driver showing time and place of origin, destination, number of passengers, and
the amount of fare of each trip.
MOTORIZED VEHICLE: A machine which incorporates a motor, sometimes known as an
engine, and which is used for transportation.
NONPROFIT TAXICAB: A vehicle furnished with a driver that carries passengers on
a volunteer basis. The vehicle shall operate without a meter installed and
charge for services per ride or on an hourly basis or longer periods of time.
OPEN STAND: A public place alongside the curb of a street or elsewhere in the
city that has been designated by the city manager as reserved exclusively for
the use of taxicabs.
OPERATOR OR HOLDER: A person to whom an operator permit has been issued by the
city.
RATE CARD: A card issued by the operator for display in each taxicab and that
contains the rates of fare then in force.
RELATED GROUP: A single telephone call to the taxicab company to pick up more
than one person with no more than two (2) suitcases per person from the same
point of origin to the same destination.
TAXICAB: All vehicles furnished with a driver which carry passengers for hire
within the city. "Charter transportation", as defined in this section,
nonprofit taxicabs, and vehicles owned or operated by any governmental entity
that provide public transportation are not taxicabs.
TAXIMETER: A meter instrument or device attached to a taxicab which measures
electronically the distance driven and the waiting time upon which the fare is
based.
VEHICLE FOR HIRE: A vehicle providing shared transportation which transports
one or more passengers between locations of the passengers' choice, or close to
it.
WAITING TIME: The time when a taxicab is not in motion from the time of
acceptance of a passenger or passengers to the time of discharge, but does not
include any time that the taxicab is not in motion if due to any cause other
than the request, act, or fault of a passenger or passengers. (Ord. 11-09, 2-
16-2009)
4-7B-2: EXEMPTIONS:
Nonprofit taxicabs and charter transportation shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 11-09, 2-16-2009)
4-7B-3: TAXIMETER REQUIRED:
No person may operate a taxicab without a taximeter fastened in front of the
passengers, visible to them at all times day and night, and after sundown the
face of the taximeter must be illuminated. Taxicab meters are not required in
taxicabs charging a flat rate to passengers, but flat rates must be posted in a
taxicab in a location that is visible to passengers at all times. (Ord. 6-13,
2-18-2013)
4-7B-4: POSTING OF RATES:
No person shall operate a taxicab without posting in a conspicuous place, in
clear view within the passenger compartment, a printed rate card large enough
to be read by the passengers in the taxicab showing the rates. (Ord. 11-09, 2-
16-2009)
4-7B-5: MANIFESTS:
   A.   Use Required: Every driver shall maintain a daily manifest upon which
are recorded all trips made each day, showing time and place of origin and
destination of each trip and amount of fare and all such completed manifests
shall be returned to the owner by the driver at the conclusion of the tour of
duty. The form for each manifest shall be furnished to the driver by the owner.
   B.   Preservation; Inspection: Every holder of an operator permit shall
retain and preserve all drivers' manifests in a safe place for at least the
calendar year and said manifests shall be open to inspection by the police
department. (Ord. 11-09, 2-16-2009)
4-7B-6: OPEN STANDS:
   A.   Areas Established: The city manager is hereby authorized and empowered
to establish open stands in such place or places upon the streets of the city
as deemed necessary for the use of taxicabs operated in the city. The city
manager shall prescribe the number of cabs that shall occupy such open stands.
   B.   Use Of Stands: Open stands shall be used by the different drivers on a
first come, first serve basis. The driver shall pull onto the open stand from
the rear and shall advance forward as the cabs ahead pull off. Drivers shall
stay within five feet (5') of their cabs and shall not engage in loud or
boisterous talk while at an open stand. Nothing in this article shall be
construed as preventing a passenger from boarding the cab of the passenger's
choice that is parked at open stands. (Ord. 11-09, 2-16-2009)
4-7B-7: VEHICLES, LICENSE AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   State License: No person shall operate a vehicle used as a taxicab
unless it is licensed by the state.
   B.   Safe Condition; Authority To Inspect: The owner or driver of a taxicab
shall keep it in a safe and operating condition at all times. The chief of
police is hereby authorized, either on complaint of any person or without such
complaint, to inspect the vehicle and, upon discovery of any unsafe condition,
to notify the person operating said taxicab to cease operation. Thereupon said
taxicab shall be kept off the street until the unsafe condition has been
corrected. (Ord. 11-09, 2-16-2009)
4-7B-8: TAXICAB BUSINESS LICENSE AND TAXICAB DRIVER'S PERMIT:
   A.   Taxicab Business License Requirements; Insurance; Fees:
      1.   Taxicab Business License Required: No person may operate a taxicab
alone or as part of a taxicab business without first having obtained a taxicab
business license from the city clerk.
      2.   Application For Taxicab Business License:
         a.   An application for a taxicab business license must be filed with
the city clerk's office on a form provided by the city clerk.
         b.   The chief of police will investigate each applicant for a taxicab
business license and a report of such investigation will be attached to the
application for consideration by the city clerk.
      3.   Consideration Of Application: The city clerk will, in consultation
with the chief of police and upon consideration of the application and the
required reports attached thereto, approve or reject the application.
      4.   Insurance Prerequisite To Issuance; Continuance In Effect: The
taxicab business owner must at all times while the license is in effect provide
insurance as required by the city manager.
      5.   Fees: No taxicab business license will be issued or renewed unless
the holder thereof has paid an annual taxicab business license fee established
by the city manager and an annual vehicle fee established by the city manager
for each vehicle in such taxicab business. Such fees are for one year
commencing April 1.
      6.   Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of License:
         a.   The city clerk may deny, suspend, or revoke issuance of a taxicab
business license for good cause, including, but not limited to, any of the
following:
            (1)   Violation of any of the provisions of this article;
            (2)   Discontinuation of operations for more than sixty (60) days;
            (3)   Violation of any ordinances of the city or laws of the United
States or the state of Iowa or any other state that demonstrates the lack of
fitness of the taxicab vehicle permit holder to offer public transportation; or
            (4)   Misrepresentation on the application for a taxicab business
license.
         b.   Prior to the denial, suspension, or revocation, the taxicab
business license holder must be given not less than ten (10) days' written
notice by the city clerk.
         c.   In the event of a denial, suspension, or revocation of a taxicab
business license, no other taxicab business license may be issued to such
person for a period of two (2) years thereafter.
      7.   Appeal: Within ten (10) days after written notice of the revocation,
suspension, or denial of issuance of a taxicab business license, an applicant
or license holder may file with the city clerk a written notice of appeal to
the city manager from such revocation, suspension, or denial. The city manager
must provide the taxicab business with notice and an opportunity to be heard on
the issue of whether the taxicab business license was properly revoked,
suspended, or denied.
      8.   Taxicabs Registered With City Clerk: The applicant or license holder
must register all vehicles operating as taxicabs for the taxicab business with
the city clerk. Any new vehicles that begin operating as taxicabs after the
taxicab business license is obtained must be registered with the city clerk
prior to the vehicles operating as taxicabs.
      9.   Taxicab Drivers Registered With City Clerk: The applicant or license
holder must register all taxicab drivers with the city clerk. Any additional
drivers hired after the taxicab business license is obtained must be registered
with the city clerk prior to the driver operating a taxicab for hire.
      10.   Display Of Taxicab Business License: The taxicab business license
must be displayed at the taxicab business location. A copy of the taxicab
business license also must be displayed in each vehicle operating as a taxicab
for the business and may not be removed until the expiration of the license.
      11.   Personal Nature; Transferability: The taxicab business license is
personal to the business and may not be sold, assigned, mortgaged, or otherwise
transferred. The taxicab business license applies to all registered vehicles
operating as taxicabs for the license holder.
      12.   Property Of City Clerk Upon Loss Or Closure: If any taxicab
business license issued under this article is lost or mislaid or the taxicab
business closes or ceases operations, the license holder must report such fact
to the city clerk immediately. Where a taxicab business license is lost or
mislaid, a duplicate license will be issued upon payment of the fee as
established by the city manager.
   B.   Driver's Permit Requirements; Fee:
      1.   Permit Required: No person may drive a taxicab for hire upon the
streets of the city and no person who owns or controls a taxicab may allow it
to be so driven, unless the driver of said taxicab holds a valid taxicab
driver's permit issued under the provisions of this article.
      2.   Application For Driver's Permit:
         a.   An application for a taxicab driver's permit must be filed with
the city clerk's office on a form provided by the city clerk.
         b.   An applicant operating a taxicab with a seating capacity of less
than seven (7) passengers must have, at a minimum, a valid Iowa class C
noncommercial license or equivalent license issued by another state to obtain a
taxicab driver's permit. An applicant operating a taxicab with a seating
capacity of greater than seven (7) passengers must have, at a minimum, a valid
Iowa class D chauffeur's license or equivalent license issued by another state
to obtain a taxicab driver's permit. Temporary restricted licenses or work
permit privileges are not sufficient to obtain a taxicab driver's permit.
         c.   An applicant will be ineligible for a taxicab driver's permit if
any of the following apply:
            (1)   The applicant is restricted to operating motor vehicles
equipped with an ignition interlock device.
            (2)   The applicant's driving privileges have been suspended,
revoked, barred, canceled, denied, or disqualified in the prior three (3) year
period.
            (3)   The applicant has been convicted of more than three (3)
moving violations in the prior three (3) year period.
            (4)   The applicant has been convicted of violating section
321.218, 321.277, or 321J.21, or section 321A.32, subsection 1, in the prior
three (3) year period.
            (5)   The applicant has been convicted in the prior seven (7) year
period of a felony, of violating section 321J.2 or 321J.2A, or of any crime
involving injury to another person, damage to the property of another person,
or operating a vehicle in a manner that endangers another person.
            (6)   The applicant is registered on the national sex offender
registry.
         d.   The chief of police will investigate each applicant for a taxicab
driver's permit and a report of such investigation will be attached to the
application for consideration by the city clerk. Such report will state whether
the applicant has, at a minimum, a valid Iowa class D-3 chauffeur's license or
equivalent license issued by another state.
      3.   Consideration Of Application: The city clerk will, in consultation
with the chief of police and upon consideration of the application and the
required reports attached thereto, approve or reject the application.
      4.   Issuance Of Permit; Duration; Annual Fee:
         a.   Upon approval of an application for a taxicab driver's permit,
the city clerk will issue a permit to the applicant upon the payment of the fee
as established by the city manager or the city manager's designee. Such permit
will be in effect for the remainder of the calendar year. The permit must be
renewed every calendar year thereafter upon the payment of the fee as
established by the city manager unless the license for the preceding year is
suspended or has been revoked.
         b.   The driver must wear the taxicab driver's permit upon the
clothing of the driver at all times while operating the taxicab.
      5.   Compliance With City, State, And Federal Laws: A taxicab driver
permitted under this article must comply with all city, state, and federal
laws.
      6.   Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of Permit:
         a.   The city clerk may deny, suspend, or revoke a taxicab driver's
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, any of the following:
            (1)   Failure or refusal to comply with the provisions of this
article;
            (2)   The taxicab driver is restricted to operating motor vehicles
equipped with an ignition interlock device;
            (3)   The taxicab driver's driving privileges have been suspended,
revoked, barred, canceled, denied, or disqualified in the prior three (3) year
period;
            (4)   The taxicab driver has been convicted of more than three (3)
moving violations in the prior three (3) year period;
            (5)   The taxicab driver has been convicted of violating section
321.218, 321.277, or 321J.21, or section 321A.32, subsection 1, in the prior
three (3) year period;
            (6)   The taxicab driver has been convicted in the prior seven (7)
year period of a felony, of violating section 321J.2 or 321J.2A, or of any
crime involving resisting law enforcement, dishonesty, injury to another
person, damage to the property of another person, or operating a vehicle in a
manner that endangers another person;
            (7)   The taxicab driver is registered on the national sex offender
registry;
            (8)   Misrepresentation on the application for a taxicab driver's
permit; or
            (9)   Violations against or loss, denial, suspension, or revocation
of a taxicab driver's state of Iowa class D-3 chauffeur's license or equivalent
license issued by another state.
         b.   Prior to suspension or revocation, the taxicab driver must be
given not less than ten (10) days' written notice by the city clerk.
         c.   In the event of such denial, suspension, or revocation of a
taxicab driver's permit, no other taxicab driver's permit will be issued to
such person for a period of two (2) years thereafter.
      7.   Appeal: Within ten (10) days after written notice of the denial,
suspension, or revocation of a taxicab driver's permit, a taxicab driver may
file with the city clerk a written notice of appeal to the city manager from
such revocation, suspension, or denial. The city manager must provide the
taxicab driver with notice and an opportunity to be heard on the issue of
whether the taxicab driver's permit was properly revoked, suspended, or denied.
      8.   Personal Nature; Transferability: The taxicab driver's permit is
personal to the driver and may not be sold, assigned, mortgaged, or otherwise
transferred.
      9.   Job Change: The taxicab driver's permit remains valid and personal
to the driver through a change of employment. If a taxicab driver becomes
employed by another taxicab company after the issuance of the taxicab driver's
permit, such a change of employment must be reported to the city clerk within
fourteen (14) days.
      10.   Property Of City Clerk Upon Loss: If any taxicab driver's permit
issued under this article is lost or mislaid, the taxicab driver must report
such fact to the city clerk immediately. A duplicate permit will be issued upon
payment of the fee as established by the city manager.
      11.   Reporting Requirements: If suspension, revocation, or any other
disciplinary action is taken against a taxicab driver’s state of Iowa class D-
3 chauffeur’s license or equivalent license issued by another state, the
taxicab driver must report such action to the city clerk’s office. (Ord. 7-13,
2-18-2013; amd. Ord. 29-16, 6-20-2016; Ord. 31-23, 6-20-2023; Ord. 56-23, 12-
18-2023)
CHAPTER 8
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Rationale And Findings
4-8-2: Definitions
4-8-3: License Required
4-8-4: Issuance Of License
4-8-5: Fees
4-8-6: Inspection
4-8-7: Expiration And Renewal Of License
4-8-8: Suspension
4-8-9: Revocation
4-8-10: Hearing; License Denial, Suspension, Revocation; Appeal
4-8-11: Transfer Of License
4-8-12: Hours Of Operation
4-8-13: Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films On Premises
4-8-14: Loitering; Lighting Requirements
4-8-15: Applicability To Existing Businesses
4-8-16: Conduct Regulations
4-8-17: Scienter Required To Prove Violation Or Business Licensee Liability
4-8-18: Failure Of City To Meet Deadline Not To Risk Applicant/Licensee Rights
4-8-19: Nuisance Declared
4-8-20: Severability
4-8-1: RATIONALE AND FINDINGS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult
entertainment establishments in order to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of adult
entertainment establishments within the city. The provisions of this chapter
have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on
the content or reasonable access to any communicative materials, including
sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of
this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented
materials protected by the first amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   B.   Findings And Rationale: Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports provided to the city
council, and on findings, interpretations, and narrowing constructions
incorporated in the cases of City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 541
U.S. 774 (2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425
(2002); City of Erie v. Pap's A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v.
Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres,
427 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991);
California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); N.Y. State Liquor Authority v.
Bellanca, 452 U.S. 714 (1981); and Sensations, Inc. v. City of Grand Rapids,
526 F.3d 291, 2008 WL 2097410 (6th Cir. May 20, 2008); Fantasyland Video, Inc.
v. County of San Diego, 505 F.3d 996 (9th Cir. 2008); Farkas v. Miller, 151
F.3d 900 (8th Cir. 1998); Jakes, Ltd. v. City of Coates, 284 F.3d 884 (8th Cir.
2002); BZAPS, Inc. v. City of Mankato, 268 F.3d 603 (8th Cir. 2001); SOB, Inc.
v. County of Benton, 317 F.3d 856 (8th Cir. 2003); Scope Pictures v. City of
Kansas City, 140 F.3d 1201 (8th Cir. 1998); Excalibur Group v. City of
Minneapolis, 116 F.3d 1216 (8th Cir. 1997); ILQ Invs. v. City of Rochester, 25
F.3d 1413 (8th Cir. 1994); Ambassador Books & Video v. City of Little Rock, 20
F.3d 858 (8th Cir. 1994); Alexander v. Minneapolis, 928 F.2d 278 (8th Cir.
1991); John Doe v. Minneapolis, 898 F.2d 612 (8th Cir. 1990); Thames Enters. v.
St. Louis, 851 F.2d 199 (8th Cir. 1988); Heideman v. South Salt Lake City, 348
F.3d 1182 (10th Cir. 2003); United States v. Evans, 272 F.3d 1069 (8th Cir.
2002); United States v. Mueller, 663 F.2d 811 (8th Cir. 1981); United States v.
Frederickson, 846 F.2d 517 (8th Cir. 1988); Ctr. for Fair Public Policy v.
Maricopa County, 336 F.3d 1153 (9th Cir. 2003); Lady J. Lingerie, Inc. v. City
of Jacksonville, 176 F.3d 1358 (11th Cir. 1999); World Wide Video of
Washington, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004); Ben's Bar,
Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir. 2003); North Avenue
Novelties, Inc. v. City of Chicago, 88 F.3d 441 (7th Cir. 1996); Williams v.
Morgan, 478 F.3d 1316 (11th Cir. 2007); Z.J. Gifts D-2, L.L.C. v. City of
Aurora, 136 F.3d 683 (10th Cir. 1998); H&A Land Corp. v. City of Kennedale, 480
F.3d 336 (5th Cir. 2007); Illinois One News, Inc. v. City of Marshall, 477 F.3d
461 (7th Cir. 2007); Daytona Grand, Inc. v. City of Daytona Beach, 490 F.3d 860
(11th Cir. 2007); Green v. City of St. Paul, 1999 WL 376099 (8th Cir. 1999);
Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc. v. Metro. Gov't of Nashville & Davidson County, 274
F.3d 377 (6th Cir. 2002); Fantasy Ranch, Inc. v. City of Arlington, 459 F.3d
546 (5th Cir. 2006); G.M. Enterprises, Inc. v. Town of St. Joseph, 350 F.3d 631
(7th Cir. 2003); Richland Bookmart, Inc. v. Nichols, 137 F.3d 435 (6th Cir.
1998); Spokane Arcade, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 75 F.3d 663 (9th Cir. 1996);
MRM, Inc. v. City of Davenport, 290 N.W.2d 338 (Iowa 1980); City of Lincoln v.
ABC Books, Inc., 470 N.W.2d 760 (Neb. 1991); Gammoh v. City of La Habra, 395
F.3d 1114 (9th Cir. 2005); People ex rel. Deters v. Effingham Retail #27, Inc.
d/b/a The Lion's Den Adult Superstore, Case No. 04-CH-26, Modified Permanent
Injunction Order (Ill. Fourth Judicial Circuit, Effingham County, July 13,
2005); Reliable Consultants, Inc. v. City of Kennedale, No. 4:05-CV-166-A,
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law (N.D. Tex. May 26, 2005); and based
upon reports concerning secondary effects occurring in and around adult
entertainment establishments, including, but not limited to, Austin, Texas -
1986; Indianapolis, Indiana - 1984; Garden Grove, California - 1991; Houston,
Texas - 1983, 1997; Phoenix, Arizona - 1979, 1995-98; Chattanooga, Tennessee -
1999-2003; Los Angeles, California - 1977; Whittier, California - 1978;
Spokane, Washington - 2001; St. Cloud, Minnesota - 1994; Littleton, Colorado -
2004; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986; Dallas, Texas - 1997; Ft. Worth, Texas -
2004; Kennedale, Texas - 2005; Greensboro, North Carolina - 2003; Amarillo,
Texas - 1977; Jackson County, Missouri - 2008; New York, New York Times Square
- 1994; and the Report of the Attorney General's working group on the
regulation of sexually oriented businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota),
the city council finds:
      1.   Adult entertainment establishments, as a category of commercial
uses, are associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects
including, but not limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution,
potential spread of disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit
drug use and drug trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties,
traffic, noise, urban blight, litter, and sexual assault and exploitation.
      2.   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the city has a substantial government interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary effects,
which is the city's rationale for this chapter, exists independent of any
comparative analysis between adult and nonadult businesses. Additionally, the
city's interest in regulating adult entertainment establishments extends to
preventing future secondary effects of either current or future adult
entertainment establishments that may locate in the city. The city finds that
the cases and documentation relied on in this chapter are reasonably believed
to be relevant to said secondary effects.
The city hereby adopts and incorporates herein its stated findings concerning
the secondary effects of adult entertainment establishments and the legislative
record documents supporting same. (Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined hereunder shall
have the meanings therein respectively ascribed to them unless a different
meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A. A commercial establishment which, as
one of its principal business activities, offers for sale or rental for any
form of consideration any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, compact discs, digital video discs, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; or "sexual
devices" as that term is defined in this section.
   B.   A "principal business activity" exists where the commercial
establishment:
      1.    Has a substantial portion of its displayed merchandise which
consists of said items; or
      2.    Has a substantial portion of the wholesale value of its displayed
merchandise which consists of said items; or
      3.    Has a substantial portion of the retail value (defined as the price
charged to customers) of its displayed merchandise which consists of said
items; or
      4.    Derives a substantial portion of its revenues from the sale or
rental, for any form of consideration of said items; or
      5.    Maintains a substantial portion of its interior business space for
the display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways used to
access said items shall be included in interior business space maintained for
the display, sale, or rental of said items); or
      6.    Maintains at least five hundred (500) square feet of its interior
business space for the display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and
walkways used to access said items shall be included in "interior business
space" maintained for the display, sale, or rental of said items) and limits
access to the premises to adults only; or
      7.    Offers for sale or rental at least two thousand (2,000) of the
foregoing items and limits access to the premises to adults only; or
      8.    Maintains an "adult arcade", which means any place to which the
public is permitted or invited wherein coin operated or slug operated or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, or other image producing devices are regularly
maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one
time, and where the images so displayed are characterized by their emphasis
upon matter exhibiting "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas".
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or similar
commercial establishment that regularly features persons who appear seminude.
Appearing live in a state of nudity in a sexually oriented business is
prohibited per subsection
4-8-16A of this chapter; no business shall avoid classification as an adult
cabaret by offering or featuring nudity.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT: An "adult bookstore" or "adult video store",
an "adult cabaret", an "adult motion picture theater", or a "seminude model
studio".
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" are regularly shown to more than
five (5) persons for any form of consideration.
CHARACTERIZED BY: Describing the essential character or quality of an item. As
applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as an adult
entertainment establishment by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials
rated NC-17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
CITY: Dubuque, Iowa.
EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, AND EMPLOYMENT: Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any function related to an adult entertainment establishment on the
premises of the establishment, on a full time, part time, or contract basis,
whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor,
agent, or otherwise. Employee does not include a person exclusively on the
premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods
to the premises.
ESTABLISH OR ESTABLISHMENT: Shall mean and include any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any adult entertainment establishment as
a new business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
entertainment establishment, to any adult entertainment establishment; or
   C.   The addition of any adult entertainment establishment to any other
existing adult entertainment establishment.
HEARING OFFICER: An attorney, not otherwise employed by the city, who is
licensed to practice law in Iowa, and retained to serve as an independent
tribunal to conduct hearings under this chapter.
INFLUENTIAL INTEREST: Any of the following: a) the actual power to operate the
adult entertainment establishment or control the operation, management or
policies of the adult entertainment establishment or legal entity which
operates the adult entertainment establishment; b) ownership of a financial
interest of thirty percent (30%) or more of a business or of any class of
voting securities of a business; or c) holding an office (e.g., president, vice
president, secretary, treasurer, managing member, managing director, etc.) in a
legal entity which operates the adult entertainment establishment.
LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license to operate an adult entertainment
establishment has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed
as an applicant on the application for an adult entertainment establishment
license. In the case of an "employee", it shall mean the person in whose name
the adult entertainment establishment employee license has been issued.
NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a fully opaque
covering, or the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple and areola.
OPERATOR: Any person on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment
who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the
business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises. A person may be found to be
operating or causing to be operated an adult entertainment establishment
whether or not that person is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the
business.
PERSON: Individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association, or
other legal entity.
PREMISES: The real property upon which the adult entertainment establishment is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the adult entertainment establishment, the grounds, private
walkways, and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the
ownership, control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the
application for an adult entertainment establishment license.
REGULARLY: The consistent and repeated doing of an act on an ongoing basis.
SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO: A place where persons regularly appear in a state of
seminudity for money or any form of consideration in order to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons. This definition does not apply to any place where persons
appearing in a state of seminudity did so in a class operated:
   A.   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
   B.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   C.   In a structure:
      1.    Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a seminude person is available for viewing;
and
      2.    Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three (3) days in advance of the class.
SEMINUDE OR STATE OF SEMINUDITY: The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of
the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This
definition shall include the lower portion of the human female breast, but
shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breasts
exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, or similar wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
SEXUAL DEVICE: Any three-dimensional object designed for stimulation of the
male or female human genitals, anus, buttocks, female breast, or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others and shall include devices
commonly known as dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, cock rings, anal beads, butt
plugs, nipple clamps, and physical representations of the human genital organs.
Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include devices primarily
intended for protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing
pregnancy.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Means and includes:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals, pubic
region; buttock; and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following specified crimes for which
less than five (5) years has elapsed since the date of conviction or the date
of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date:
   A.   Vice offenses (Iowa Code chapter 725);
   B.   Obscenity offenses (Iowa Code chapter 728);
   C.   Assault offenses (Iowa Code chapter 708);
   D.   Sexual abuse offenses (Iowa Code chapter 709);
   E.   Money laundering offenses (Iowa Code section 706B.2);
   F.   Controlled substances offenses (Iowa Code chapter 124, Div. IV);
   G.   Any attempt, solicitation, or conspiracy to commit one of the foregoing
offenses; or
   H.   Any offense committed in another jurisdiction that, had the predicate
act(s) been committed in Iowa, would have constituted any of the foregoing
offenses.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following:
   A.   Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
   B.   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in subsection A of this definition.
SUBSTANTIAL: At least thirty five percent (35%) of the item(s) so modified.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL: Of an adult entertainment establishment shall
mean any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
VIEWING ROOM: The room, booth, or area where a patron of an adult entertainment
establishment would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film,
videocassette, digital video disc, or other video reproduction. (Ord. 69-08,
10-20-2008)
4-8-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Business License: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an
adult entertainment establishment in the city without a valid adult
entertainment establishment license.
   B.   Employee License: It shall be unlawful for any person to be an
"employee", as defined in section
4-8-2 of this chapter, of an adult entertainment establishment in the city
without a valid adult entertainment establishment employee license, except that
a person who is a licensee under a valid adult entertainment establishment
license shall not be required to also obtain an adult entertainment
establishment employee license.
   C.   Application: An applicant for an adult entertainment establishment
license or an adult entertainment establishment employee license shall file in
person at the office of the city manager a completed application made on a form
provided by the city manager. An adult entertainment establishment may
designate an individual with an influential interest in the establishment to
file its application for an adult entertainment establishment license in person
on behalf of the establishment. The application shall be signed as required by
subsection D of this section and shall be notarized. An application shall be
considered complete when it contains, for each person required to sign the
application, the information and/or items required in this subsection,
accompanied by the appropriate licensing fee:
      1.   The applicant's full legal name and any other names used by the
applicant in the preceding five (5) years.
      2.   Current business address or another mailing address for the
applicant.
      3.   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver's license or a copy of
a birth certificate accompanied by a picture identification document issued by
a governmental agency.
      4.   If the application is for an adult entertainment establishment
license, the business name, location, legal description, mailing address and
phone number of the adult entertainment establishment.
      5.   If the application is for an adult entertainment establishment
license, the name and business address of the statutory agent or other agent
authorized to receive service of process.
      6.   A statement of whether an applicant has been convicted of or has
pled guilty or nolo contendere to a "specified criminal activity" as defined in
this chapter, and if so, each specified criminal activity involved, including
the date, place, and jurisdiction of each as well as the dates of conviction
and release from confinement, where applicable.
      7.   A statement of whether any adult entertainment establishment in
which an applicant has had an influential interest, has, in the previous five
(5) years (and at a time during which the applicant had the influential
interest):
         a.   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         b.   Been subject to a court order of closure or padlocking.
      8.   An application for an adult entertainment establishment license
shall be accompanied by a legal description of the property where the business
is located and a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). Applicants who are
required to comply with the stage, booth, and/or room configuration
requirements of this chapter shall submit a diagram indicating that the setup
and configuration of the premises meets the requirements of the applicable
regulations.
The information provided pursuant to this subsection shall be supplemented in
writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the city manager within
ten (10) working days of a change of circumstances which would render the
information originally submitted false or incomplete.
   D.   Signature: A person who seeks an adult entertainment establishment
employee license under this section shall sign the application for a license.
If a person who seeks an adult entertainment establishment license under this
section is an individual, he shall sign the application for a license as
applicant. If a person who seeks an adult entertainment establishment license
is other than an individual, each person with an influential interest in the
adult entertainment establishment or in a legal entity that controls the adult
entertainment establishment shall sign the application for a license as
applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under this chapter and each
applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   E.   Information Confidential: The information provided by an applicant in
connection with an application for a license under this chapter shall be
maintained by the office of the city manager on a confidential basis, and such
information may be disclosed only as may be required, and only to the extent
required, by court order. (Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Business License: Upon the filing of a completed application for an
adult entertainment establishment license, the city manager shall immediately
issue a temporary license to the applicant if the completed application is from
a preexisting adult entertainment establishment that is lawfully operating in
the city and the completed application, on its face, indicates that the
applicant is entitled to an annual adult entertainment establishment license.
The temporary license shall expire upon the final decision of the city to deny
or grant an annual license. Within twenty (20) days of the filing of a
completed adult entertainment establishment license application, the city
manager shall either issue a license to the applicant or issue a written notice
of intent to deny a license to the applicant. The city manager shall issue a
license unless:
      1.   An applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
      3.   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      4.   The "adult entertainment establishment", as defined in section
4-8-2 of this chapter is not in compliance with the interior configuration
requirements of this chapter or is not in compliance with locational
requirements of this chapter or the locational requirements of any other part
of the this code.
      5.   Any adult entertainment establishment in which the applicant has had
an influential interest, has, in the previous five (5) years (and at a time
during which the applicant had the influential interest):
         a.   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         b.   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
      6.   An applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo contendere
to a "specified criminal activity", as defined in section
4-8-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Employee License: Upon the filing of a completed application for an
adult entertainment establishment employee license, the city manager shall
immediately issue a temporary license to the applicant if the applicant seeks
licensure to work in a licensed adult entertainment establishment and the
completed application, on its face, indicates that the applicant is entitled to
an annual adult entertainment establishment employee license. The temporary
license shall expire upon the final decision of the city to deny or grant an
annual license. Within twenty (20) days of the filing of a completed adult
entertainment establishment employee license application, the city manager
shall either issue a license to the applicant or issue a written notice of
intent to deny a license to the applicant. The city manager shall issue a
license unless:
      1.   The applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
      3.   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      4.   Any adult entertainment establishment in which the applicant has had
an influential interest, has, in the previous five (5) years (and at a time
during which the applicant had the influential interest):
         a.   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         b.   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
      5.   The applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a "specified criminal activity", as defined in section
4-8-2 of this chapter.
   C.   License Contents; Posting; Kept On Person: The license, if granted,
shall state on its face the name of the person or persons to whom it is
granted, the number of the license issued to the licensee(s), the expiration
date, and, if the license is for an adult entertainment establishment, the
address of the adult entertainment establishment. The adult entertainment
establishment license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the adult entertainment establishment so that it may be read at any
time that the business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public. An
adult entertainment establishment employee shall keep the employee's license on
his or her person or on the premises where the licensee is then working or
performing. (Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-5: FEES:
The initial license and annual renewal fees for adult entertainment
establishment licenses and adult entertainment establishment employee licenses
shall be as follows: a) one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the initial fee for
an adult entertainment establishment license and fifty dollars ($50.00) for
annual renewal; b) fifty dollars ($50.00) for the initial adult entertainment
establishment employee license and twenty five dollars ($25.00) for annual
renewal. (Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-6: INSPECTION:
Adult entertainment establishments and adult entertainment establishment
employees shall permit the city manager and his or her agents to inspect, from
time to time on an occasional basis, the portions of the adult entertainment
establishment premises where patrons are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the specific regulations of this chapter, during those times
when the adult entertainment establishment is occupied by patrons or is open to
the public. This section shall be narrowly construed by the city to authorize
reasonable inspections of the licensed premises pursuant to this chapter, but
not to authorize a harassing or excessive pattern of inspections. (Ord. 69-08,
10-20-2008)
4-8-7: EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from
the date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be
renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in section
4-8-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Application for renewal of an annual license should be made at least
ninety (90) days before the expiration date of the current annual license, and
when made less than ninety (90) days before the expiration date, the expiration
of the current license will not be affected. (Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-8: SUSPENSION:
   A.   The city manager shall issue a written notice of intent to suspend an
adult entertainment establishment license for a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days if the adult entertainment establishment licensee has knowingly
violated this chapter or has knowingly allowed an employee or any other person
to violate this chapter.
   B.   The city manager shall issue a written notice of intent to suspend an
adult entertainment establishment employee license for a period not to exceed
thirty (30) days if the employee licensee has knowingly violated this chapter.
(Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-9: REVOCATION:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: The city manager shall issue a written notice of
intent to revoke an adult entertainment establishment license or an adult
entertainment establishment employee license, as applicable, if the licensee
knowingly violates this chapter or has knowingly allowed an employee or any
other person to violate this chapter and a suspension of the licensee's license
has become effective within the previous twelve (12) month period.
   B.   Reasons For Revocation: The city manager shall issue a written notice
of intent to revoke an adult entertainment establishment license or an adult
entertainment establishment employee license, as applicable, if:
      1.   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the
application for the adult entertainment establishment license or the adult
entertainment establishment employee license;
      2.   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises of the adult
entertainment establishment;
      3.   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
prostitution on the premises of the adult entertainment establishment;
      4.   The licensee knowingly or recklessly operated the adult
entertainment establishment during a period of time when the license was
finally suspended or revoked;
      5.   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed any
specified sexual activity or specified criminal activity to occur in or on the
premises of the adult entertainment establishment; or
      6.   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed a person under the
age of eighteen (18) years to consume alcohol or appear in a state of
seminudity or nudity on the premises of the adult entertainment business.
   C.   Appeal Of Relevant Conviction: The fact that any relevant conviction is
being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the license; provided,
that, if any conviction which serves as a basis of a license revocation is
overturned or reversed on appeal, that conviction shall be treated as null and
of no effect for revocation purposes.
   D.   Term Of Revocation: When, after the notice and hearing procedure
described in this chapter, the city revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued an adult
entertainment establishment license or adult entertainment establishment
employee license for one year from the date revocation becomes effective. (Ord.
69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-10: HEARING; LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION; APPEAL:
   A.   Notice And Request For Hearing, Procedures:
      1.   When the city manager issues a written notice of intent to deny,
suspend, or revoke a license, the city manager shall immediately send such
notice, which shall include the specific grounds under this chapter for such
action, to the applicant or licensee (respondent) by personal delivery or
certified mail. The notice shall be directed to the most current business
address or other mailing address on file with the city manager for the
respondent. The respondent shall have ten (10) days after the delivery of the
written notice to submit, at the office of the city manager, a written request
for a hearing. If the respondent does not request a hearing within said ten
(10) days, the city manager's written notice shall become a final denial,
suspension, or revocation, as the case may be, on the thirtieth day after it is
issued, and shall be subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section.
      2.   If the respondent does make a written request for a hearing within
said ten (10) days, then the city manager shall, within ten (10) days after the
submission of the request, send a notice to the respondent indicating the date,
time, and place of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted not less than
ten (10) days nor more than twenty (20) days after the date that the hearing
notice is issued. The city shall provide for the hearing to be transcribed.
      3.   At the hearing, the respondent shall have the opportunity to present
all of respondent's arguments and to be represented by counsel, present
evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross examine any of the
city's witnesses. The city manager shall also be represented by counsel, and
shall bear the burden of proving the grounds for denying, suspending, or
revoking the license. The hearing shall take no longer than two (2) days,
unless extended at the request of the respondent to meet the requirements of
due process and proper administration of justice. The hearing officer shall
issue a final written decision, including specific reasons for the decision
pursuant to this chapter, to the respondent within five (5) days after the
hearing.
      4.   If the decision is to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, the
decision shall advise the respondent of the right to appeal such decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction, and the decision shall not become effective
until the thirtieth day after it is rendered. If the hearing officer's decision
finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of the
license, the hearing officer shall, contemporaneously with the issuance of the
decision, order the city to immediately withdraw the intent to deny, suspend,
or revoke the license and to notify the respondent in writing by certified mail
of such action. If the respondent is not yet licensed, the city manager shall
contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   B.   Court Action To Challenge Decision: If any court action challenging a
licensing decision is initiated, the city shall prepare and transmit to the
court a transcript of the hearing within thirty (30) days after receiving
written notice of the filing of the court action. The city shall consent to
expedited briefing and/or disposition of the action, shall comply with any
expedited schedule set by the court, and shall facilitate prompt judicial
review of the proceedings. The following shall apply to any adult entertainment
establishment that is lawfully operating as an adult entertainment
establishment, or any adult entertainment establishment employee that is
lawfully employed as an adult entertainment establishment employee, on the date
on which the completed business or employee application, as applicable, is
filed with the city manager. Upon the filing of any court action to appeal,
challenge, restrain, or otherwise enjoin the city's enforcement of any denial,
suspension, or revocation of a temporary license or annual license, the city
manager shall immediately issue the respondent a provisional license. The
provisional license shall allow the respondent to continue operation of the
adult entertainment establishment or to continue employment as an adult
entertainment establishment employee and will expire upon the court's entry of
a judgment on the respondent's appeal or other action to restrain or otherwise
enjoin the city's enforcement. (Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-11: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate an adult entertainment establishment under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address designated in the adult
entertainment establishment license application. (Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-12: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No adult entertainment establishment shall be or remain open for business
between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on any day. (Ord.
69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-13: EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS ON PREMISES:
   A.   Requirements: A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult
entertainment establishment which exhibits in a booth or viewing room on the
premises, through any mechanical or electronic image producing device, a film,
videocassette, digital video disc, or other video reproduction characterized by
an emphasis on the display of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Each application for an adult entertainment establishment license
shall contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all operator's
stations, booths or viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, and restrooms,
and shall designate all portions of the premises in which patrons will not be
permitted. Restrooms shall not contain equipment for displaying films,
videocassettes, digital video discs, or other video reproductions. The diagram
shall also designate the place at which the license will be conspicuously
posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an
engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each
diagram shall be oriented to the north or to some designated street or object
and shall be drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient
to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (± 6"). The city manager
may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant
adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted.
      3.   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five (5.0) foot-candles as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      4.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no specified sexual activity occurs in or on
the licensed premises.
      5.   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         a.   That the occupancy of viewing rooms less than one hundred fifty
(150) square feet is limited to one person.
         b.   That specified sexual activity on the premises is prohibited.
         c.   That the making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited.
         d.   That violators will be required to leave the premises.
         e.   That violations of these regulations are unlawful.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in subsections A5a through A5d of this section.
      7.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator's station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. An
operator's station shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor area.
If the premises has two (2) or more operator's stations designated, then the
interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at least one of the
operator's stations. The view required in this subsection must be by direct
line of sight from the operator's station. It is the duty of the operator to
ensure that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each operator's
station at all times that any patron is on the premises. It shall be the duty
of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of any employees present on the
premises, to ensure that the view area specified in this subsection remains
unobstructed by any doors, curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other
materials or enclosures at all times that any patron is present on the
premises.
   B.   Failure To Fulfill Duties: It shall be unlawful for a person having a
duty under subsection A of this section to knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
   C.   Entering Occupied Viewing Room: It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly enter a viewing room less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet in
area that is occupied by any other person.
   D.   Make Opening Between Viewing Rooms: It shall be unlawful for any person
to knowingly make any hole or opening between viewing rooms.
   E.   Allowing Opening To Remain: It shall be unlawful for an operator to
knowingly allow to persist any hole or similar opening in the wall of any
viewing room. (Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-14: LOITERING; LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Loitering Prohibited; Monitoring Premises: It shall be the duty of the
operator of an adult entertainment establishment to: 1) ensure that at least
two (2) conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is permitted on the
premises are posted on the premises; 2) designate one or more employees to
monitor the activities of persons on the premises by visually inspecting the
premises at least once every ninety (90) minutes or inspecting the premises by
use of video cameras and monitors; and 3) provide lighting to the exterior
premises to provide for visual inspection or video monitoring to prohibit
loitering. Said lighting shall be of sufficient intensity to illuminate every
place to which customers are permitted access at an illumination of not less
than one (1.0) foot-candle as measured at the floor level. If used, video
cameras and monitors shall operate continuously at all times that the premises
are open for business. The monitors shall be installed within an operator's
station.
   B.   Lighting Requirements: It shall be the duty of the operator of an adult
entertainment establishment to ensure that the interior premises shall be
equipped with overhead lighting of sufficient intensity to illuminate every
place to which customers are permitted access at an illumination of not less
than five (5.0) foot-candles as measured at the floor level and the
illumination must be maintained at all times that any customer is present in or
on the premises.
   C.   Failure To Fulfill Duty: It shall be unlawful for a person having a
duty under this section to knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
   D.   Barrier In Parking Lot: No adult entertainment establishment shall
erect a fence, wall, or other barrier that prevents any portion of the parking
lot(s) for the establishment from being visible from a public right of way.
(Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-15: APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING BUSINESSES:
All preexisting adult entertainment establishments lawfully operating in the
city in compliance with all state and local laws prior to the effective date
hereof, and all adult entertainment establishment employees working in the city
prior to the effective date hereof, are hereby granted a de facto temporary
license to continue operation or employment for a period of ninety (90) days
following the effective date hereof. By the end of said ninety (90) days, all
adult entertainment establishments and adult entertainment establishment
employees must conform to and abide by the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-16: CONDUCT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Nudity; Sexual Activity: No patron, employee, or any other person shall
knowingly or intentionally, in an adult entertainment establishment, appear in
a state of nudity or engage in a specified sexual activity.
   B.   Seminudity: No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in an adult
entertainment establishment, appear in a seminude condition unless the person
is an employee who, while seminude, remains at least six feet (6') from all
patrons and on a stage at least eighteen inches (18") from the floor in a room
of at least six hundred (600) square feet.
   C.   View From Operator Stations: The interior of the premises of any adult
entertainment establishment which regularly features persons who appear
seminude shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view, by a direct line of sight from a fixed operator's station, of every area
of the interior premises, excluding restrooms, to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose. If the premises has two (2) or more operator's
stations, then such view shall be from at least one of the operator's stations.
An operator's station shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor
area. It is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least one employee is on
duty and situated in each operator's station at all times that any patron is on
the premises.
   D.   Touching Of Customers: No employee who regularly appears seminude in an
adult entertainment establishment shall knowingly or intentionally touch a
customer or the clothing of a customer while on the premises of an adult
entertainment establishment.
   E.   Alcoholic Beverages: No person shall sell, use, or consume alcoholic
beverages on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   F.   Minors: No person shall knowingly or recklessly allow a person under
the age of eighteen (18) years to be or remain on the premises of an adult
entertainment establishment.
   G.   Compliance Required: No operator or licensee of an adult entertainment
establishment shall knowingly violate or fail to comply with the regulations in
this section or knowingly allow an employee or any other person to violate the
regulations in this section.
   H.   Regulations Posted: A sign in a form to be prescribed by the city
manager, and summarizing the provisions of subsections A, B, C, D, E and F of
this section shall be posted near the entrance of the adult entertainment
establishment in such a manner as to be clearly visible to patrons upon entry.
No person shall cover, obstruct, or obscure said sign.
   I.   Separate Restrooms: An adult entertainment establishment shall provide
separate male and female restrooms for and to be used by employees which shall
be separate from restrooms provided for and used by nonemployees. This
requirement shall not apply to an adult entertainment establishment that
neither has live entertainment nor provides prepared food or allows beverages
(including alcoholic beverages) other than sealed nonalcoholic beverages for
individual retail sales. (Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-17: SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LICENSEE LIABILITY:
This chapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental state
is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a knowing or reckless mental state
is necessary to establish a violation of a provision of this chapter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter, an
act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee's license shall be imputed to the adult entertainment
establishment licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or
for purposes of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if an officer,
director, or general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or
controlled the operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly
allowed such act to occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to liability
that the person to whom liability is imputed was powerless to prevent the act.
(Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-18: FAILURE OF CITY TO MEET DEADLINE NOT TO RISK APPLICANT/LICENSEE RIGHTS:
In the event that a city official is required to act or to do a thing pursuant
to this chapter within a prescribed time, and fails to act or to do such thing
within the time prescribed, said failure shall not prevent the exercise of
constitutional rights of an applicant or licensee. If the act required of the
city official under this chapter, and not completed in the time prescribed,
includes approval of condition(s) necessary for approval by the city of an
applicant or licensee's application for an adult entertainment establishment
license or an adult entertainment establishment employee's license (including a
renewal), the license shall be deemed granted and the business or employee
allowed to commence operations or employment the day after the deadline for the
city's action has passed. (Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-19: NUISANCE DECLARED:
An adult entertainment establishment established, operated, or maintained in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be, and is, declared
to be a public nuisance. The city may, in addition to, or in lieu of any remedy
set forth in this chapter, commence an action to enjoin, remove, or abate such
nuisance in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
4-8-20: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter and each section and provision of said chapter hereunder, are
hereby declared to be independent divisions and subdivisions and, not
withstanding any other evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby declared to
be the controlling legislative intent that if any provisions of said chapter,
or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be invalid,
the remaining sections or provisions and the application of such sections and
provisions to any person or circumstances other than those to which it is held
invalid, shall not be affected thereby, and it is hereby declared that such
sections and provisions would have been passed independently of such section or
provision so known to be invalid. Should any procedural aspect of this chapter
be invalidated, such invalidation shall not affect the enforceability of the
substantive aspects of this chapter. (Ord. 69-08, 10-20-2008)
TITLE 5
TRANSIT SYSTEM
CHAPTER 1
TRANSIT ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
5-1-1: Board Created
5-1-2: Purpose
5-1-3: Internal Organization And Rules
5-1-4: Procedures For Operation
5-1-5: Membership
5-1-6: Oath
5-1-7: Terms
5-1-8: Vacancies
5-1-9: Officers; Organization
5-1-10: Meetings
5-1-11: Compensation
5-1-12: Removal
5-1-13: Powers
5-1-14: Fare Increase Or Reduction In Service, Procedure
5-1-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created the Transit Advisory Board. (Ord. 50-14, 7-21-2014)
5-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the board is to recommend the establishment of routes,
schedules, and changes in fare structure and/or rates. (Ord. 50-14, 7-21-2014)
5-1-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The board may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as may be necessary and which are not in conflict with this Code or
the Iowa Code. (Ord. 50-14, 7-21-2014)
5-1-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the City govern the board in all its operations. (Ord. 50-14, 7-21-2014)
5-1-5: MEMBERSHIP:
The board comprises five (5) residents of the City, appointed by the City
Council. (Ord. 50-14, 7-21-2014)
5-1-6: OATH:
Each person, upon appointment to the board, must execute an oath of office at
the first meeting of the board following the appointment or at the City Clerk's
Office any time prior to the first meeting of the board. (Ord. 50-14, 7-21-
2014; amd. Ord. 39-24, 6-17-2024)
5-1-7: TERMS:
The term of office for members of the board is three (3) years or until such
member's successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 50-14, 7-21-2014)
5-1-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original appointments. (Ord. 50-
14, 7-21-2014)
5-1-9: OFFICERS; ORGANIZATION:
The board must choose annually a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson, each to
serve a term of one year. The Chairperson must appoint a Secretary, who need
not be a member of the board. The board must fill a vacancy among its officers
for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 50-14, 7-21-2014)
5-1-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The board will meet bimonthly, September through May,
meeting no less than four (4) times per year.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or
at the written request of a majority of the members.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa Open Meetings Law.
   D.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a member of the board has been absent for three (3) or
more consecutive meetings of the board, without being excused by the
Chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the board to recommend to the
City Council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   E.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the board must be filed with the City Council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the board, or by the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting, whichever is later.
   F.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the board constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the members
present and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or resolution.
(Ord. 11-18, 3-19-2018; amd. Ord. 39-24, 6-17-2024)
5-1-11: COMPENSATION:
Members serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official board
business within the limits established in the City administrative policies and
budget. (Ord. 50-14, 7-21-2014)
5-1-12: REMOVAL:
Except as provided in subsection 5-1-10D1 of this chapter, the City Council may
remove any member for good cause. (Ord. 32-15, 5-18-2015)
5-1-13: POWERS:
The board has the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
   A.   Advise the City Council on executing agreements and grants relating to
the transit system operation and the purchase of new equipment.
   B.   Advise the City Council on rates, fares, or charges for the
transportation of passengers and any incidental services and the rates or
charges to be made for advertising in buses or any other facility. (Ord. 50-14,
7-21-2014)
5-1-14: FARE INCREASE OR REDUCTION IN SERVICE, PROCEDURE:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases, when used in this title
shall, for the purpose of this title, have the meanings respectively ascribed
to them in this section:
   SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTION IN SERVICE: 1. Routes: Elimination of a route;
      2.   Service Hours: Reduction of ten percent (10%) of service hours of a
route;
      3.   Service Miles: Reduction of ten percent (10%) of service miles of a
route; and/or
      4.   Bus Stops: Elimination of one or more stops on a route that would
result in a greater than one-fourth (1/4) mile walking distance between bus
stops.
   B.   Public Hearing: Prior to the adoption of any fare increase or a
substantial reduction in service by the City Council, the City Council must set
a time and place for public hearing on such proposed fare increase or reduction
in service, and must cause a notice of the time and place of such hearing to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City not less than four
(4) nor more than twenty (20) days prior to such hearing. All notices must
comply with all Federal, State, and local regulations.
   C.   Contents Of Notice: The notice must state the time and place of
hearing, include a summary of the proposed fare increase or reduction in
service level, indicate who the increase or reduction will affect, indicate the
date the increase or reduction will take effect, and request that interested
persons comment, in writing filed with the City Clerk prior to the time of the
public hearing or in person at the public hearing, on the proposed increase or
reduction. The notice must also state that any comments submitted will be
considered by the City Council, and that following the public hearing, the City
Council will act to adopt, modify or reject the proposed fare increase or
reduction in service. All notices must comply with all Federal, State, and
local regulations. (Ord. 60-14, 10-6-2014)
TITLE 6
HEALTH, HOUSING, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Tattooing, State Code Adopted
6-1-2: Face Covering Requirement (Rep. by Ord. 21-21, 5-19-2021)
6-1-1: TATTOOING, STATE CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference Iowa Code chapter 135.37,
"tattooing - permit required - penalty", as amended, and Iowa administrative
code chapter 641-22, "practice of tattooing", adopted by the Iowa department of
public health, revised January 15, 2003, which applies to sanitation and
infection control, equipment, procedures, application for permit, the permit
process, variances, adverse actions, the appeal process, and procedures for
health departments to provide for the inspection and enforcement of such rules.
(Ord. 49-08, 7-7-2008)
6-1-2: FACE COVERING REQUIREMENT:
(Rep. by Ord. 21-21, 5-19-2021)
CHAPTER 2
FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS AND HOTEL SANITATION
SECTION:
6-2-1: Provisions Adopted
6-2-1: PROVISIONS ADOPTED:
The following provisions of the Iowa Code and all administrative rules adopted
pursuant thereto are hereby adopted by reference:
   Chapter 137C, hotel sanitation code.
   Chapter 137D, home food establishments.
   Chapter 137F, food establishments and food processing plants.
   Iowa administrative code, section 481-30 food and consumer safety.
   Iowa administrative code, section 481-31 food establishment and food
processing plant inspections.
(2007 Code § 21-1)
CHAPTER 3
AMBULANCES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Ambulance Service Rates
6-3-2: Service Area
6-3-1: AMBULANCE SERVICE RATES:
   A.   Established: Rates for ambulance service shall be established from time
to time by the city manager. (Ord. 67-06, 10-16-2006)
   B.   Authority To Adjust: The city manager is hereby authorized and
empowered, in the city manager's discretion, to make adjustments in the rates
and charges to be fixed for city ambulance service in such cases where the need
for such ambulance service is required to repeatedly transport a person of
limited financial means. The city manager shall have the authority to require
proof of the financial status of a person seeking the benefits of this section
for such service. (2007 Code § 23-33)
6-3-2: SERVICE AREA:
   A.   Service Area Limited: City ambulances shall make calls or provide
ambulance service only to points in Iowa within the county or to points in
Illinois or Wisconsin within five (5) miles of the city limits. (2007 Code §
23-34)
   B.   Agreements For Service Outside City; Fees:
      1.   The city manager is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into
agreements with any authorized officials or governing body to provide emergency
ambulance service to any point in the states of Wisconsin or Illinois within
five (5) miles of the city limits, or to any point in the county. The agreement
shall provide that such official or governing body shall guarantee the payment
of the fees established in this chapter. All service authorized by Dubuque
County officers shall be paid by the Dubuque County sheriff's office. All
service authorized by the county welfare office shall be paid by the county
welfare office. All service authorized by the East Dubuque police department
shall be paid by the East Dubuque police department.
      2.   Fees for all other calls made in Dubuque County, Jo Daviess County
or Grant County shall be payable in advance by the person receiving such
service. (2007 Code § 23-35)
CHAPTER 4
NUISANCES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Public Nuisance Defined; Public Nuisances Enumerated
6-4-4: Public Nuisances Prohibited; Authority To Abate
6-4-5: Abatement Remedies; Penalties
6-4-6: Emergency Abatement Procedure
6-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety, and general
welfare of the community. These provisions are intended to aid in the control
and elimination of activity which interferes with an owner's reasonable use and
enjoyment of the owner's property or interferes with public rights such as free
passage along streams and highways and enjoyment of public parks and places of
recreation and to be secure from fire, safety hazards and other health hazards
throughout the community. (2007 Code § 23-40)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ABANDONED BUILDING: Any building or portion thereof which has stood with an
incomplete exterior shell for six (6) months or longer which meets one (1) or
more of the following criteria:
   A.   Is unsecured;
   B.   Is unoccupied; or
   C.   Is in violation of the International Property Maintenance Code,
International Building Code, or International Fire Code adopted by the City of
Dubuque.
CITY MANAGER: Includes the City Manager's designee.
COMPOST PILE: A collection of yard waste and kitchen food wastes, but
specifically excluding bones, meat, fat, grease, oil, raw dog or cat manure,
which collection in nonmanufactured composting units is screened from the
street view, is located in a confined area, is no taller than five feet (5')
high and no larger than seventy five (75) square feet in area, is located more
than twenty feet (20') from any habitable structure on adjoining property and
at least three feet (3') from a property boundary line, is located more than
five feet (5') from any wood structure, excluding fences and compost
containers, is not located in a natural drainageway and is not located in the
area between any building and the street right-of-way and is collected for
reuse as a soil amendment and is maintained free of noxious odors.
DANGEROUS BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure defined in this Code
as unsafe or dangerous.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Those wastes defined in chapter 455B, Code of Iowa, as
amended, and the Iowa Administrative Code, as amended.
JUNK OR SALVAGE MATERIAL: Any discarded or salvaged building material or
fixture; any obsolete or inoperable machinery and/or equipment or parts
thereof; any wood, metal, plastic or composite pieces remaining outside of a
legal structure for more than forty eight (48) hours.
NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES: Substances, solid or fluid, which are offensive,
detrimental to health, hurtful or dangerous, including, but not limited to, any
dead animal or portion thereof, and human or animal excrement.
OWNER: The record owner of real property, and any person having a property
interest in the property, including legal or equitable interests.
PROPERTY: Both real and personal property.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any person having ownership, possession, or control of real
or personal property, including, but not limited to, any one or more of the
following:
   A.   An agent;
   B.   An assignee or collector of rents;
   C.   A contract seller or contract purchaser;
   D.   The holder of a deed to the property;
   E.   A mortgagee or vendee in possession;
   F.   A receiver, executor, administrator or trustee;
   G.   Lessee and lessor; or
   H.   Any other person, firm, partnership, corporation or entity exercising
control over the property.
SOLID WASTE: Any waste that is putrescible, nonputrescible, combustible or
noncombustible, including, but not limited to, trash, garbage, material
resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving and
consumption of food, vegetable or animal matter, offal, rubbish, ashes,
incinerator residue, street cleanings, construction debris and solid industrial
waste.
YARD WASTE: The accumulation of grass, leaves, tree trimmings under three
inches (3") in diameter, brush and garden residue, which accumulation is
screened from the street view, is located in a confined area, is no taller than
four feet (4') high and no larger than seventy five (75) square feet in area,
is located more than twenty feet (20') from any habitable structure on
adjoining property, at least three feet (3') from a property boundary line, is
located more than five feet (5') from any wood structure, excluding fences and
compost containers, is not located in a natural drainageway, is not located in
the area between any building and the street right- of-way, is collected for
reuse as a soil amendment, and is maintained free of noxious odors. (Ord. 31-
16, 6-20-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; amd. Ord. 32-17, 7-5-2017)
6-4-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED; PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
Whatever is injurious to the public health or safety or an obstruction to the
free use of property so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
or property by the public shall be deemed a "public nuisance". A "public
nuisance" shall include, but not be limited to, the following: (2007 Code § 23-
42)
   A.   Accumulations: Any yard waste, solid waste, vehicle parts, garbage,
noxious substances or hazardous wastes, junk, unused building materials,
salvage material or other offensive substances thrown, left or deposited in or
upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, park, public square, public
enclosure, public or private lot, whether vacant or occupied, or upon any pond
or pool of water, except for: (Ord. 5-13, 2-18-2013)
      1.   Solid waste deposited and stored in accordance with provisions of
this Code;
      2.   A compost pile located or maintained in compliance with this
chapter;
      3.   Yard waste located or maintained in compliance with this chapter;
      4.   Junk or salvage materials properly stored in a junk or salvage yard
permitted under this Code;
      5.   The use of agricultural manure on crop producing agricultural land
or pasture; or
      6.   The safe accumulation of animal waste by commercial livestock
processing facilities.
   B.   Diseased Or Damaged Trees Or Plant Materials: Any dead, diseased or
damaged tree or plant material which may harbor serious insect or disease pests
or disease injurious to other trees or plant materials, or any tree in such a
state of deterioration that any part of such tree is likely to fall and damage
property or cause injury to persons.
   C.   Ditch, Drain Or Stormwater Detention Basins: Any stormwater detention
basin not properly maintained as determined by the city engineer.
   D.   Stagnant Water: Stagnant water standing on any property, including any
container or material kept in such a condition that water can accumulate and
stagnate.
   E.   Vermin And Pests:
      1.   Conditions which are conducive to the harborage or breeding of
vermin and pests; or
      2.   Infestations of vermin and pests, such as rats, mice, skunks,
snakes, bats, starlings, pigeons, and insects (except tended honeybees).
   F.   Private Sewer Facilities:
      1.   Facilities for the storage or processing of sewage, such as privies,
outhouses, port-a-potties, vaults, sewers, private drains, septic tanks,
cesspools, drain fields or similar facilities, which have failed or do not
function properly or which are overflowing, leaking or emanating odors.
      2.   Septic tanks, cisterns and cesspools which are abandoned or no
longer in use unless properly emptied and filled with clean fill.
      3.   Any vault, cesspool or septic tank which does not comply with
applicable health regulations.
   G.   Unoccupied, Dangerous Buildings:
      1.   Unoccupied buildings or unoccupied portions of buildings which are
unsecured;
      2.   Abandoned buildings; or
      3.   Dangerous buildings or structures.
   H.   Hazardous Conditions:
      1.   Generally: Any hazardous thing or condition on property which may
contribute to the injury of any person present on the property, including, but
not limited to, open holes, open foundations, excavations, open wells,
dangerous trees or tree limbs, abandoned refrigerators and trapping devices.
      2.   Fire Hazard: Any thing or condition on property creating a fire
hazard, as determined by the fire marshal.
      3.   Health Hazard: Any thing or condition on property creating an
imminent threat to human health or in violation of any health or sanitation
law.
   I.   Obstructing Public Ways And Property:
      1.   The obstructing or encumbering by fences, buildings, structures,
signs or otherwise of public streets, alleys, sidewalks and commons, except as
permitted by agreement, easement, or this code.
      2.   Any gathering of persons or vehicles upon a public street or
sidewalk or any use of property abutting a public street or sidewalk which
obstructs pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other lawful use of streets or
sidewalks, except as permitted by this code.
   J.   Depositing Mud, Dirt And Debris On Public Ways: The depositing or
allowing the depositing of mud, dirt, gravel or other debris on public ways.
(2007 Code § 23-42)
   K.   Unsanitary Accumulations: Failing to keep a building, dwelling,
structure, business and parts thereof, or grounds clean and free of any
unsanitary accumulations of dirt, filth, rubbish, or garbage, including all
property outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines. (Ord. 5-
13, 2-18-2013)
   L.   Unwholesome Food Or Drink: Whatever renders food or drink unwholesome
or detrimental as determined by the health officer.
   M.   Communicable Disease: The exposure of any person to any communicable
disease by unlawful act or practice.
   N.   Animals: Harboring or maintaining such number of dogs or cats or other
animals, or combination thereof, as to create unhealthy or unsanitary
conditions for the humans or animals occupying the premises. (2007 Code § 23-
42)
   O.   Clear And Present Danger To Others: A clear and present danger to the
health or safety of others on or within one thousand feet (1,000') of a
property includes, but is not limited to, the following activities of any
person on the premises with the consent of the property owner, resident, or
occupant:
      1.   Physical assault or the threat of physical assault.
      2.   Illegal use of a firearm or other weapon, the threat to use a
firearm or other weapon illegally, or possession of an illegal firearm.
      3.   Possession of a controlled substance unless the controlled substance
was obtained directly from or pursuant to a valid prescription or order by a
licensed medical practitioner while acting in the course of the practitioner's
professional practice. This subsection applies to any other person on the
premises with the consent of the tenant, but only if the tenant knew of the
possession by the other person of a controlled substance.
      4.   The above will not apply to a property owner, resident, or occupant
if the activities, as described in subsections O1, O2 and O3 of this section,
are caused by a person on the premises who does not reside at the premises and
the property owner, resident, or occupant takes at least one of the following
measures against the person conducting the activities:
         a.   The property owner, resident, or occupant seeks a protective
order, restraining order, order to vacate the homestead, or other similar
relief pursuant to Iowa Code, chapter 236, 598, 664A, or 915, or any other
applicable provision which would apply to the person conducting the activities
causing the clear and present danger.
         b.   The property owner, resident, or occupant reports the activities
causing the clear and present danger to a law enforcement agency or the county
attorney in an effort to initiate a criminal action against the person
conducting the activities.
         c.   The property owner, resident, or occupant writes a letter to the
person conducting the activities causing the clear and present danger, telling
the person not to return to the premises and that a return to the premises may
result in a trespass or other action against the person, and the tenant sends a
copy of the letter to a law enforcement agency whose jurisdiction includes the
premises. If the tenant has previously written a letter to the person as
provided in this subsection, without taking an action specified in subsection
O4a or O4b of this section or filing a trespass or other action, and the person
to whom the letter was sent conducts further activities causing a clear and
present danger, the tenant must take one of the actions specified in subsection
O4a or O4b of this section to be exempt from proceedings pursuant to this
subsection.
         d.   However, in order to fall within the exemptions provided within
this subsection, the property owner, tenant, or occupant must provide written
proof to the city of Dubuque, prior to the commencement of a suit against the
property owner, resident, or occupant, that the property owner, resident, or
occupant has taken one of the measures specified in subsections O4a through O4c
of this section.
   P.   Disorderly House:
      1.   "Disorderly house" means a building, dwelling, establishment,
curtilage, premises, or place where prohibited conduct occurs.
      2.   "Prohibited conduct" means activities in violation of statutes or
ordinances relating to any of the following:
         a.   Illegal gambling.
         b.   Prostitution, pandering, pimping, or indecent conduct.
         c.   Sale or possession of controlled substances, unless the
controlled substance was obtained directly from or pursuant to a valid
prescription or order by a licensed medical practitioner while acting in the
course of the practitioner's professional practice.
         d.   Unlawful liquor sales.
         e.   Unauthorized delivery or manufacture of a controlled substance.
         f.   Bootlegging.
         g.   Physical assault.
         h.   Threat of physical assault.
         i.   Illegal use and/or possession of firearms or other weapons.
         j.   The threat to use a firearm or weapon illegally.
         k.   Excessive noise.
         l.   Loitering.
         m.   Disorderly conduct.
         n.   Possession of alcohol under the legal age (PAULA) by property
owner, tenant, or occupant.
         o.   Possession of drug paraphernalia.
         p.   Public intoxication.
         q.   Aiding and abetting. (Ord. 17-11, 3-7-2011)
   Q.   Furniture: Indoor upholstered furniture or upholstered furniture which
is not designed for outdoor use but which is maintained or located on any
uncovered porch, lawn, parking lot, driveway, or public right-of-way.
   R.   Combustible Items: Any accumulation of combustible items such as
mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes, old clothes, rags, or any
other combustible materials or objects of a like nature. (Ord. 5-13, 2-18-2013)
   S.   Construction And Building Materials: Outdoor storage of construction
and building materials, except those that are stored in a manner to protect
their utility, prevent deterioration, and are used at the site within the
timespan of an applicable building permit, one hundred eighty (180) days, or a
time frame proposed by the property owner that has been approved by the City.
(Ord. 2-18, 2-5-2018)
   T.   Appliances Or Appliance Parts: Outdoor storage of appliances or
appliance parts, except those that are reasonably expected to be used at the
site, which are stored in a manner to protect their utility, prevent
deterioration, and protect people from becoming trapped within them.
   U.   Burned Or Partially Burned Buildings And Structures: Any building or
other structure which has been burned, partially burned, or otherwise partially
destroyed, which is unsightly or hazardous to the safety of any person or
structurally unsound to the extent that the City Manager reasonably determines
there is a likelihood of personal or property injury to any person or property
entering the premises.
   V.   Miscellaneous: Any act done or committed by any person or any substance
or thing kept, maintained, placed, or found in or on any public or private
place which is annoying or damaging or injurious or dangerous to the public
health, welfare, or safety and every action or thing done, permitted,
maintained, allowed, or continued on any public or private property, by any
person which is liable to or does endanger, annoy, damage, or injure any person
or inhabitant of the City or property of said person or inhabitant. (Ord. 5-13,
2-18-2013)
6-4-4: PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED; AUTHORITY TO ABATE:
   A.   Nuisances Prohibited: The creation, maintenance, or continuation of a
public nuisance is hereby declared unlawful and is prohibited, subject to
penalties set forth in section
1-4-2 of this Code.
   B.   Declaration Of Nuisance; Informal Hearing; Abatement: Upon application
to the City Manager for a declaration of a nuisance, the City Manager, after
notice to the property owner of the grounds therefor, shall hold an informal
hearing on the application. Upon declaration of a nuisance, the City Manager
may direct the City staff to abate or cause to be abated public nuisances in
any manner authorized by law.
   C.   Appeal To City Council: Upon declaration of a nuisance, the property
owner may appeal to the City Council, in writing, within ten (10) days. The
City Council, after notice to the property owner, shall hold a hearing on the
appeal as provided in title 1, chapter 9 of this Code.
   D.   Municipal Infraction: Nothing herein shall be interpreted to prevent
the City from issuing a Municipal infraction as allowed under Iowa Code section
364.22 and section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 53-13, 12-2-2013; amd. Ord. 23-21, 6-7-2021)
6-4-5: ABATEMENT REMEDIES; PENALTIES:
   A.   Abatement Described: Abatement includes, but is not limited to, repair,
removal, cleaning, exterminating, cutting, mowing, grading, sewer repairs,
draining, securing, repairing a building or structure, boarding unoccupied
buildings, barricading or fencing, removing dangerous portions of buildings or
structures and demolition of dangerous structures or abandoned buildings.
   B.   Abatement Costs: The costs of abatement may be assessed against the
property as provided by law. Abatement costs are all of the costs of removing
or eliminating the public nuisance, including the cost of investigation,
including title searches, inspection and testing, the cost of notification,
court costs and administrative costs. (2007 Code § 23-44)
6-4-6: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
When the City Manager determines that a public nuisance exists and that such
public nuisance constitutes an imminent and compelling danger to the health,
safety or welfare of persons or property, the City Manager is authorized to
abate or cause to be abated the public nuisance without prior notice to the
owner. The costs of such action may be assessed against the property after
notice to the property owner and hearing as required by law. (2007 Code § 23-
45)
CHAPTER 5
NOISES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Prohibited Noises
6-5-2: Unlawful Use Of Buildings
6-5-3: Exempt Noises
6-5-4: Residential Air Conditioners
6-5-5: City Contracts, Contractors And Subcontractors
6-5-6: Enforcement
6-5-7: Variance Permits
6-5-1: PROHIBITED NOISES:
No person shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, or with wanton disregard
for the distress of those nearby cause or permit any loud and excessive noise
that results in annoyance or discomfort to a reasonable person of normal
sensitivities. Without limiting or precluding enforcement of any other
provision of this chapter or this Code, the following are hereby prohibited:
   A.   Horns, Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling device
such as that on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle on any street
or public place of the City, except as a danger warning, or the sounding of any
such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
   B.   Crying Of Wares: The sale by outcry within any area of the City zoned
for residential uses. However, this subsection shall not be construed to
prohibit the selling by outcry of merchandise, food and beverages at licensed
sporting events, parades, fairs, circuses and other similar licensed public
entertainment events, nor to prohibit the selling of newspapers by outcry.
   C.   Animals And Fowl: The keeping of, upon any premises owned, occupied or
controlled by any person, any animal or fowl otherwise permitted to be kept
which, by any sound or cry, shall cause annoyance or discomfort to a reasonable
person of normal sensibilities.
   D.   Loading, Unloading, Opening Boxes: The creation of any loud and
excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the
opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
   E.   Schools, Courts, Churches, Hospitals: The creation of any loud and
excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning,
church or court while same is in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which
unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institution, or which
disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital.
   F.   Construction: The creation of any loud or excessive noise resulting
from erection, excavation, demolition, alteration or repairs related to any
structure, infrastructure, or building except between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., Monday through Friday, and
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Saturday and Sunday.
   G.   Pile Drivers, Pneumatic Hammers: The operation of any pile driver, pipe
ramming, pneumatic hammer, or similar construction equipment, except between
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., Monday
through Friday, and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.,
Saturday and Sunday, and when so permitted, only if equipped with an effective
muffling device.
   H.   Refuse Or Recyclables Collection: The collection of garbage, trash,
refuse or recyclables in any area zoned residential except between the hours of
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. of any day and, when so
permitted, only in a manner so as not to create a loud or excessive noise.
   I.   Vehicle Repairs: The creation of loud and excessive noise resulting
from the repair or rebuilding of any motor vehicle within any residential area
of the City except between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. daily but only in such a manner that a reasonable person of
normal sensitivities residing in the area will not be caused discomfort or
annoyance.
   J.   Exhausts: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any engine,
including a steam engine, internal combustion engine, motorboat or motor
vehicle or the discharge of air or other gases except through a muffler or
other device that will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
   K.   Stationary Machinery, Equipment And Fans: The operation of any immobile
machine, equipment, pump, fan or similar mechanical device in any manner so as
to create any loud and excessive noise.
   L.   Loud, Unnecessary Or Unusual Noise: Notwithstanding any other provision
of this chapter or Code, and in addition thereto, it shall be unlawful for any
person to make or continue or cause to be made or continued any loud,
unnecessary, or unusual noise which disturbs the peace or quiet of any
neighborhood or which causes discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable person
of normal sensitivities.
   M.   Outdoor Music Or Amplified Noise:
      1.   The making or continuing to make any outdoor music or amplified
noise between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Sunday and nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. on Monday, ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Monday and nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. on Tuesday, ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Tuesday and nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. on Wednesday, ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Wednesday and nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. on Thursday, ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Thursday and nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. on Friday, twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Friday and nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Saturday and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Saturday
and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on Sunday, when the person making or causing to
make such music or noise knows or reasonably should know the music or noise
would disturb the peace of a reasonable person; or
      2.   During the course of sport team and intramural practices conducted
on the grounds of a Dubuque public or parochial school or college campuses.
(Ord. 34-18, 9-17-2018; amd. Ord. 4-20, 1-21-2020)
6-5-2: UNLAWFUL USE OF BUILDINGS:
No person owning or in possession of or in control of any building or premises
shall use the same, permit the use of the same, or rent the same to be used by
any business, employment or other use, or for any purpose of pleasure or
recreation, if such use shall, by the noise generated therefrom, disturb or
interfere with the peace of the neighborhood in which such building or premises
is situated. (2007 Code § 33-47)
6-5-3: EXEMPT NOISES:
The following noises are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Emergency Operations: Emergency short term operations that are
necessary to protect the health and welfare of the citizens, such as emergency
utility and street repair, fallen tree removal or emergency fuel oil delivery,
shall be exempt from the prohibitions of section
6-5-1 of this chapter; provided, that reasonable steps shall be taken by those
in charge of such operations to minimize noise emanating from the same.
   B.   Noise Required By Law: The prohibitions of section
6-5-1 of this chapter shall not apply to any noise required specifically by law
for the protection or safety of people or property.
   C.   Lawn Mowers, Garden Tools: Powered equipment, such as lawn mowers,
small lawn and garden tools, riding tractors and snow removal equipment that is
necessary for the maintenance of property, if kept in good repair and
maintenance, shall be exempt from the prohibitions of section
6-5-1 of this chapter. No person shall operate such equipment, however, with
the exception of snow removal equipment, except between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and sunset, Monday through Friday, and nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. to sunset, Saturday and Sunday.
   D.   Residential Air Conditioners: Noise emitted by residential air
conditioners shall be governed by section
6-5-4 of this chapter.
   E.   Airplanes: Aircraft operations that are controlled specifically by
Federal law shall be exempt from the prohibitions of this chapter.
   F.   Bells, Chimes: Bells, chimes and similar devices that signal the time
of day and operate during the daytime hours for a duration of no longer than
five (5) minutes in any given one hour period shall be exempt from the
prohibitions of section
6-5-1 of this chapter.
   G.   Entertainment And Sporting Events:
      1.   Reasonable sounds emanating from sanctioned sporting events
conducted on the grounds of a Dubuque public or parochial school or college or
university campuses within a sports stadium between the hours of nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday, and nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Friday and Saturday.
For purposes of this section sanctioned sporting events are described as
competitive matches between teams from different institutions. Sanctioned
sporting events includes one hour prior to the event and one-half (1/2) hour
after the event. Sports team practices and intramurals are not considered
sanctioned sporting events under this subsection.
      2.   Reasonable sounds emanating from musical instruments of marching
bands or other musical teams, without electronic amplification, engaged in
performance or practice, conducted on the grounds of a Dubuque public or
parochial school or college or university campuses between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday, and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Friday and
Saturday.
      3.   Nothing in this subsection G shall be read to prohibit a public-
address announcer at events during the permissible hours. (Ord. 35-18, 9-17-
2018)
6-5-4: RESIDENTIAL AIR CONDITIONERS:
No person shall install, operate or use any residential air conditioner, or
combination of residential air conditioners, that create a loud and excessive
noise level at a lot line of any dwelling located on any adjacent premises.
(2007 Code § 33-49)
6-5-5: CITY CONTRACTS, CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS:
It is the policy of the City to comply with the noise standards, as set forth
in this chapter, in its own operations and the operations of its contractors
and subcontractors. All contractors and subcontractors shall be required to
comply with the provisions of this chapter. (2007 Code § 33-50)
6-5-6: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the City Manager or the City Manager's designee to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. (2007 Code § 33-51)
6-5-7: VARIANCE PERMITS:
   A.   Issuance: Variance permits may be issued, pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee from the noise
prohibitions of this chapter.
   B.   Temporary Variance Permit: A temporary variance permit may be issued
upon request; provided, that the work producing such noise is necessary to
promote the public health and/or welfare and reasonable steps are taken to keep
such noise at the lowest possible practical level.
   C.   Special Events: A temporary variance permit may be issued for special
events, such as circuses, Fourth of July celebrations and similar community
events that are limited in duration and are generally acceptable to the people
of the community; provided, that precautions are taken to maintain the noises
produced at the lowest practical level.
   D.   Application For Permit: Applications for temporary variance permits
shall be made in writing to the City Manager or the City Manager's designee and
shall contain such information as requested by the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Dates requested;
      2.   Time and place of operation;
      3.   Equipment and operation involved;
      4.   Necessity for such permit;
      5.   Steps to be taken to minimize noise; and
      6.   Name and telephone number of responsible person(s) who will be
present at the operation site while the noise is produced. (2007 Code § 33-52)
CHAPTER 6
HOUSING REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 8-16, 4-4-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
CHAPTER 7
HAZARDOUS WASTE, SUBSTANCES AND CONDITIONS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Purpose
6-7-2: Definitions
6-7-3: Cleanup Required
6-7-4: Liability For Cleanup Costs
6-7-5: Notification Of Hazardous Conditions
6-7-6: Police Authority
6-7-7: Penalty
6-7-8: Separability Of Provisions
6-7-1: PURPOSE:
These regulations are promulgated to establish responsibility for the removal
and cleanup of spills or releases of hazardous waste and substances within the
city, and to reduce the danger to public health, safety and welfare from the
spills or releases of hazardous waste and substances. (2007 Code § 33-31)
6-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words have the following
meanings:
CLEANUP: Actions necessary to contain, collect, control, identify, analyze,
clean up, treat, disperse, remove or dispose of a hazardous substance or
hazardous waste.
HAZARDOUS CONDITION: Any situation involving the actual, imminent or probable
spillage, leakage or release of a hazardous substance or hazardous waste onto
the land, into a water of the state or into the atmosphere which creates an
immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE: Any substance or mixture of substances that present a
danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not limited to, a
substance that is toxic, corrosive or flammable, or that is an irritant or that
generates pressure through decomposition, heat or other means. "Hazardous
substance" may include any hazardous waste identified or listed by the
administrator of the United States environmental protection agency under the
solid waste disposal act as amended by the resource conservation and recovery
act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under section 307 of the federal
water pollution control act, as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the secretary of transportation under the hazardous
materials transportation act.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: A. A waste or combination of wastes that, because of its
quantity, concentration, biological degradation, leaching from precipitation,
or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, has either of the
following effects:
      1.    Causes or significantly contributes to an increase in mortality or
an increase in serious or incapacitating irreversible illness; or
      2.    Poses a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of, or
otherwise managed. Hazardous waste may include, but is not limited to, wastes
that are toxic, corrosive or flammable or irritants, strong sensitizers or
explosives.
   B.   Hazardous waste does not include:
      1.    Agricultural wastes, including manures and crop residues that are
returned to the soil as fertilizers or soil conditioners; or
      2.    "Source", "special nuclear" or "byproduct material" as defined by
the atomic energy act of 1954, as amended.
PERSON: Individual, corporation, government, government subdivision or agency,
business trust, estate, trust, partnership or association or any other legal
entity.
PERSON HAVING CONTROL OVER A HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE OR HAZARDOUS WASTE: A person
who at any time produces, handles, stores, uses, transports, refines or
disposes of a hazardous substance or hazardous waste, the release of which
creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers and any other person
in control of a hazardous substance or hazardous waste when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or hazardous
waste or is operating under a lease, contract or other agreement with the legal
owner of the hazardous substance or hazardous waste. (2007 Code § 33-32)
6-7-3: CLEANUP REQUIRED:
   A.   Responsibility For Cleanup; Notify Fire Department: Whenever a
hazardous condition is created so that a hazardous substance or hazardous waste
or a constituent of a hazardous substance or hazardous waste may enter the
environment, be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including
groundwaters, the person having control over a hazardous substance or hazardous
waste shall notify, or cause to be notified, the fire department and shall
cause the condition to be remedied by a cleanup as soon as possible, but no
later than six (6) hours after the onset or discovery of the hazardous
condition, or sooner if deemed necessary by an authorized officer of the fire
department, and shall restore the affected area to its state prior to the
hazardous condition. The cost of cleanup, as well as all costs of mitigation
performed by the fire department or any other department of the city, shall be
borne by the person having control over the hazardous substance or hazardous
waste. (2007 Code § 33-33)
   B.   Failure To Perform Cleanup: If the person having control over the
hazardous substance or hazardous waste does not cause the cleanup to begin as
required in subsection A of this section, the fire chief or the fire chief's
representative may establish a deadline for commencing and accomplishing the
cleanup, and if the person having control fails to comply therewith, the city
may proceed to procure cleanup services. The city may seek any state or federal
funds available for such cleanup. (Ord. 54-13, 12-2-2013)
6-7-4: LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS:
A person having control over a hazardous substance or hazardous waste shall be
liable to the city for all of the following:
   A.   All cleanup costs incurred by the city as a result of the failure of
the person to clean up a hazardous substance or waste involved in a hazardous
condition caused or permitted by the person;
   B.   All costs incurred by the city to evacuate the area threatened by a
hazardous condition caused or permitted by the person;
   C.   All damages to the city for injury to, destruction of, or loss of city
property resulting from a hazardous condition caused or permitted by the
person;
   D.   All costs involved in the emergency mitigation of the hazardous
condition, including, but not limited to, employee costs, disposable equipment
costs, medical costs (including postincident physical examinations for
responders), outside contractor costs and equipment usage costs. (2007 Code §
33-34)
6-7-5: NOTIFICATION OF HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS:
   A.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting or disposing of
a hazardous substance or hazardous waste within the limits of the city shall
notify the fire department of the occurrence of a hazardous condition
immediately upon discovery of the hazardous condition and shall also notify the
proper state office in the manner required by state law.
   B.   A city employee who discovers a hazardous condition shall immediately
notify the fire department and the fire department shall notify the proper
state office in the manner required by state law. (2007 Code § 33-5)
6-7-6: POLICE AUTHORITY:
   A.   Police Authority: The chief of police or the chief's designee may:
      1.   Order the evacuation of persons from their homes or other locations
if necessary for their safety, to safe areas away from the site of a hazardous
condition, and
      2.   Enforce perimeters or other boundaries established by the fire
department at or near the site of a hazardous condition and limit access to the
site to cleanup personnel.
   B.   Compliance With Order Required: No person shall disobey an order of the
chief of police issued under this section. (2007 Code § 33-36)
6-7-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision, section or paragraph of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine
of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or be imprisoned for not more
than thirty (30) days. Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense. (2007 Code § 33-37)
6-7-8: SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
It is the intent of the city that each section, paragraph, sentence, clause and
provision hereof is separable, and if any provision is held unconstitutional or
invalid for any reason, such decision shall not affect the remainder of this
chapter nor any part thereof other than affected by such decision. (2007 Code §
33-38)
CHAPTER 8
TREES AND WEEDS
SECTION:
6-8-1: Trees And Landscaping
6-8-2: Weed Abatement
6-8-1: TREES AND LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Planting And Removal; Permission Required: It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to plant or remove trees in the public right of way
without the written permission of the city manager or the city manager's
designee, and upon such terms and conditions as the city manager shall require.
   B.   Street Tree And Landscaping On Public Right Of Way Policy: The city
manager shall develop, with the approval of the city council, a written street
tree and landscaping on public right of way policy which shall govern the
planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs, nonwoody vegetation or
other landscaping in the public right of way. (Ord. 12-15, 2-16-2015)
6-8-2: WEED ABATEMENT:
   A.   Duty Of Owner To Remove: It shall be the duty of the owner of any lot
or parcel of land within the limits of the city to maintain the same free and
clear of any dense growth of weeds, vines, brush or other vegetation that may
constitute a health, safety or fire hazard and any such growth is hereby
declared a public nuisance. (2007 Code § 45-51)
   B.   Notice To Owner To Remove; Hearing; Costs: Whenever the city manager
shall determine that the nature or quantity of weeds, vines, brush or other
growth on any lot or parcel of land in the city is such as to constitute a
health, safety or fire hazard, the city manager shall mail a written notice by
certified mail to the owner of said lot or parcel of land, or the owner's agent
or attorney, notifying the owner of said property to cut or destroy such weeds,
vines or other growth and that if the owner fails to remove such weeds, vines
or other growth within five (5) days after the mailing of such notice, the city
manager will cause said weeds, vines or other growth to be cut and destroyed
and certify the actual cost thereof to the city clerk who, in turn, will
certify such cost plus the costs of administration to the county treasurer and
it will then constitute a lien against said property and be collected with and
in the same manner as general property taxes on said property. The notice shall
also provide the owner with an opportunity for a hearing to contest the
determination and abatement order. Prior to certifying such costs to the city
clerk, the city manager shall mail a written notice by certified mail to the
owner stating the costs to be certified and shall provide the owner with an
opportunity for a hearing to contest the amount of such costs. (Ord. 47-05, 8-
1-2005)
   C.   Compliance With Removal Notice Required: It shall be the duty of an
owner, notified as provided in subsection B of this section, to remove weeds,
vines or other growth, to cut or destroy such weeds, vines or other growth
within a reasonable time and in such a manner as to remove such hazard. (2007
Code § 45-53)
   D.   Collection Of Cost Of Removal By City: In the event the owner of a lot
or parcel of land, who has been notified pursuant to subsection B of this
section, shall fail to remove weeds, vines or other growth within five (5) days
after the mailing of such notice, it shall be the duty of the city manager to
cause said weeds, vines or other growth to be cut and destroyed and to certify
the actual cost thereof to the city clerk who, in turn, shall certify such cost
plus the costs of administration to the county treasurer, and it shall then
constitute a lien against said property and be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes on said property. (Ord. 47-05, 8-1-2005)
CHAPTER 9
FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Smoking, Carrying Lighted Objects In Specified Places Restricted
6-9-2: Burning Restrictions
6-9-3: Blasting, Fireworks And Open Burning; Permits And Fees
6-9-4: Service Stations
6-9-5: Bulk Storage Tank Licenses
6-9-6: Smoke Alarms
6-9-1: SMOKING, CARRYING LIGHTED OBJECTS IN SPECIFIED PLACES RESTRICTED:
   A.   Places Enumerated: No person shall smoke or carry a lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe or match, or use any spark, flame or fire producing device not
especially authorized for use in such places by the fire chief, in any of the
following places:
      1.   Retail Stores: Retail stores designed and arranged to accommodate
more than one hundred (100) persons, or in which more than ten (10) persons are
employed. This prohibition shall not apply to smoking in restrooms,
restaurants, executive offices, or beauty parlors in retail stores, when
specifically approved by the fire chief by written order to the person having
control of the premises upon a finding that such use therein is not dangerous
to life or property.
      2.   Elevators: Elevators, regardless of capacity, in any public place.
      3.   Public Lodging Houses: In beds in hotels, dormitories and rooming
and lodging houses. A printed notice advising the occupant of the effect of
this section shall be posted in a conspicuous place in every room of the
building.
      4.   Public Theaters: During a performance in public theaters, motion
picture houses, auditoriums, gymnasiums, and the like, including the dressing
rooms, except that the prohibition of this section shall not apply to smoking
rooms and areas and restrooms when specifically approved by the fire chief by
written order to the person having control of the premises, upon a finding that
such use therein is not dangerous to life or property. The prohibition of this
section shall not be construed to prohibit smoking by performers on the stage
as part of any theatrical production.
      5.   Transit Authority Buses: Buses operated by the Dubuque transit
authority of the city and any other motor vehicle operated by such authority
hauling fare paying passengers in the city.
   B.   Permitting Violation Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person or
such person's agent, having control of any premises or place to knowingly
permit a violation of this section.
   C.   Authority To Post Signs: The fire chief shall have the authority to
order "smoking prohibited by law" signs erected in any place of public
assemblage where, in the fire chief's opinion, smoking or the carrying of a
lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or match, or any use of any spark, flame or fire
producing device, not specifically authorized for use in such place, would
constitute a menace to life or property.
   D.   Display Of Signs: Every person, or such person's agent, having control
of the premises upon which smoking or the carrying of lighted objects is
prohibited by, or under the authority of this section, shall conspicuously
display upon the premises signs reading "Smoking Prohibited By Law" in such
number and in such location and of such size as the fire chief may find
reasonable and necessary.
   E.   Smoking Prohibited: No person shall smoke in any properly placarded
place, nor shall any person remove any placard required to be erected by or
under the authority of this section. (2007 Code § 19-6)
6-9-2: BURNING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Solid Waste:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or incinerate any solid
waste within the city except by permission of the city manager. This subsection
shall apply to all solid waste as defined by the Iowa department of natural
resources and shall specifically include all wastepaper, boxes, building
materials, yard waste, tree stumps, and all other materials other than
conventional materials used as fuels for a furnace or boiler.
      2.   This subsection shall not apply to any incinerator operated under a
license granted by the Iowa department of natural resources nor to any burning
conducted under the direction of the fire department for training purposes.
      3.   This subsection shall not apply to outdoor cooking using charcoal,
natural or propane gas as a fuel, small wood fires consistent with section
307.3.2, recreational fires, of the international fire code, bonfires or
prescribed fires as regulated by this chapter. (2007 Code § 19-7)
   B.   Special Permission To Burn Yard Waste:
      1.   The city manager may allow the burning of yard waste, including tree
stumps, and other yard generated waste, for limited and specific periods. This
provision shall apply only to the burning of such waste on the premises where
such waste was generated.
      2.   The city manager may only permit such open burning when the ambient
air quality of the city has met all air quality standards of the Iowa
department of natural resources for the preceding six (6) month period. (2007
Code § 19-8)
   C.   Cancellation Of Permitted Open Burning: Permitted open burning of yard
waste may be canceled immediately by the city manager in the event of
unfavorable local weather or atmospheric conditions, or such other conditions
as the city manager deems appropriate. (2007 Code § 19-9)
6-9-3: BLASTING, FIREWORKS AND OPEN BURNING; PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Permits Required:
      1.   Blasting: No person may engage in any activity involving blasting
with explosives within the city without first obtaining a permit from the fire
chief.
      2.   Fireworks And Pyrotechnics: No person may engage in any activity
involving the use or display of fireworks or pyrotechnics without first
obtaining a permit from the fire chief.
      3.   Bonfire: No person may light and/or conduct a bonfire without first
obtaining a permit from the fire chief.
      4.   Open Burning Of Land Clearance Materials: No person may burn
materials resulting from land clearance activities without first obtaining a
permit from the fire chief.
      5.   Open Burning On Agricultural Property: No person may, on property
zoned agricultural, burn vegetation or growing form wood originating on the
property without first obtaining a permit from the fire chief.
      6.   Prescribed Burns: No person may kindle a fire for recognized
silvicultural, range or wildlife management practices, or for prevention or
control of disease or pest without first obtaining a permit from the fire
chief.
   B.   Fees And Requirements For Permits: Fees and requirements for each
permit issued are as established by the fire chief. (Ord. 40-13, 7-15-2013)
6-9-4: SERVICE STATIONS:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, the following term shall
have the meaning ascribed to such term in this subsection:
   SERVICE STATION: That portion of a property where flammable or combustible
liquids used as motor fuels are stored and dispensed from fixed equipment into
fuel tanks of motor vehicles or floating crafts. (2007 Code § 19-41)
   B.   Unloading Of Tank Vehicles While On Public Streets Prohibited;
Exception: No person may discharge or unload, or transfer class I flammable
liquid from a tank vehicle while any portion thereof is standing on any street,
alley or public highway, except in the case of emergency. In the event an
emergency requires the discharge or unloading of class I flammable liquid from
any tank vehicle on a public street or highway, the fire chief must be notified
and such operation may not be commenced until such necessary safeguards as the
fire chief requires have been established.
   C.   License Required; Fee: No person may engage in the operation of any
service station within the city without first obtaining an annual license
therefor from the fire chief. The applicant must pay a fee therefor as
established by the fire chief.
   D.   Applications: Applicants for a service station license must file with
the fire chief an application showing: (Ord. 40-13, 7-15-2013)
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The location of the service station;
      3.   The name and address of the owner of the premises on which the
service station is located;
      4.   The name and address of the operator of the service station; and
      5.   The amount of class I flammable liquid storage provided in such
service station. (2007 Code § 19-44)
   E.   Fees And Requirements For Licenses: Fees and requirements for service
station licenses are as established by the fire chief. (Ord. 40-13, 7-15-2013)
   F.   Expiration; Renewal: The license required by this section shall expire
on June 30 following the issuance thereof and renewal fees for such licenses
shall be due July 1 of each year for the following year and shall become
delinquent if unpaid by July 10 of each year. A penalty fee shall be added to
all delinquent fees. (2007 Code § 19-46)
6-9-5: BULK STORAGE TANK LICENSES:
   A.   License Required; Fee: No person may engage in the operation or
business of storing, handling or dispensing of corrosive, flammable, or
combustible liquids, including liquid petroleum gas (LPG) at any location
within the city without first securing an annual license from the fire chief
and paying a fee therefor. (Ord. 40-13, 7-15-2013)
   B.   Exemption: Service stations licensed under section
6-9-4 of this chapter, fuel oil used in connection with oil burning equipment
located on or in the premises in which the fuel oil is stored and liquid
petroleum gas (LPG) used in connection with equipment located on or in the
premises in which the liquid petroleum gas (LPG) is stored are not subject to
the licensing requirements of this section. (2007 Code § 19-62)
   C.   Fees And Requirements: Fees and requirements for bulk storage licenses
are as established by the fire chief. (Ord. 40-13, 7-15-2013)
   D.   Expiration; Renewal: The license required by this section shall expire
on June 30 following the issuance thereof and renewal fees for such licenses
shall be due July 1 of each year for the following year and shall become
delinquent if unpaid by July 10 of each year. A penalty fee shall be added to
all delinquent fees. (2007 Code § 19-64)
6-9-6: SMOKE ALARMS:
An existing building undergoing renovation of any level as defined in the
International Existing Building Code that contains a Residential occupancy
above any other occupancy, that would not otherwise require a sprinkler system
or fire alarm system, shall be required to install multi-station smoke alarm(s)
on each level of the building or structure in each public or common area and in
the basement at locations approved by the Fire Marshall. The smoke alarms shall
be installed according to the manufacturer's instructions.
Interconnection is required between these smoke alarms. Power by building
wiring, or battery power is acceptable. Interconnection by building wiring or
wireless is acceptable. (Ord. 9-22, 3-7-2022)
TITLE 7
POLICE, FIRE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
7-1-1: Fees For Police Department Services
7-1-1: FEES FOR POLICE DEPARTMENT SERVICES:
   A.   Opening Motor Vehicle Or Gaining Entrance To Structure: Persons
requesting assistance from the police department for opening any motor vehicle
or gaining entrance to any structure shall pay to the city a service charge, as
established by the city manager, per call.
   B.   Request For Local Criminal History Record: Nonlaw enforcement persons
requesting a local criminal history record from the police department shall pay
to the city a service charge, as established by the city manager, per local
criminal history record requested.
   C.   Specific Response Not Required Or Assured: Nothing in this section
shall be interpreted as requiring or assuring any specific response by the
police department. (2007 Code § 38-31)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
7-2-1: Service Outside City Restricted
7-2-2: Service Charges
7-2-3: Standby Service
7-2-1: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY RESTRICTED:
No fire service shall be rendered outside the limits of the city by
firefighting equipment and city personnel except as follows:
   A.   To protect property of the city located outside the corporate limits of
the city; or
   B.   Pursuant to a written mutual aid agreement for emergency fire service
on a reciprocal basis with another governmental entity. (2007 Code § 19-21)
7-2-2: SERVICE CHARGES:
Persons requesting assistance for the following services from the fire
department shall pay a fee as established by the fire chief: (Ord. 54-13, 12-2-
2013)
   A.   For opening or gaining entrance to any structure;
   B.   For the pumping and removal of liquids of any nature from any building
or excavation other than liquids deposited in such area as a result of
firefighting activities. (2007 Code § 19-22)
7-2-3: STANDBY SERVICE:
   A.   Whenever fire equipment and fire personnel are requested to stand by,
there shall be a standby fee set by the fire chief paid to the city by the
person requesting the service. (Ord. 54-13, 12-2-2013)
   B.   The fee as provided for in subsection A of this section shall be in
addition to any fees or charges prescribed for ambulance service in this code.
(2007 Code § 19-23)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
7-3-1: Obedience To Mayor's Emergency Proclamations
7-3-2: Office Of Local Coordinator
7-3-3: Comprehensive Citywide Disaster Plan
7-3-1: OBEDIENCE TO MAYOR'S EMERGENCY PROCLAMATIONS:
No person shall violate the provisions of any proclamation issued by the mayor
during times of public danger or emergency. (2007 Code § 14-1)
7-3-2: OFFICE OF LOCAL COORDINATOR:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created an office of coordinator of
emergency management and emergency planning for the city of Dubuque who shall
possess such qualifications as provided in the code of Iowa. (2007 Code § 14-
20)
   B.   Duties And Powers: The coordinator of emergency management and
emergency planning for the city of Dubuque, under the direction of the city
manager and the city manager's supervisory control, shall have the following
responsibilities:
      1.   To coordinate and implement all emergency recovery plans.
      2.   To control and direct training efforts.
      3.   To cooperate with the state office of emergency management to carry
out the provisions of the code of Iowa as such provisions pertain to the city
of Dubuque.
      4.   To maintain a current inventory of emergency use resources from the
private sector and state and local governments, including location and
availability of such resources.
      5.   To disseminate information and conduct appropriate public relations.
      6.   To supervise necessary supplies, equipment and personnel in the
event of disaster.
      7.   To put into force any and all operational plans in the event of any
emergency.
      8.   To publish reasonable rules and regulations which are essential to
the protection of lives and property.
      9.   To procure the necessary agreements upon the approval of the city
attorney for the use of public and private property for the storage of
equipment, materials and supplies and for the use of public and private
property for shelter and disaster purposes.
      10.   To recommend to the mayor whenever it is necessary that a state of
emergency be declared. (2007 Code § 14-21)
7-3-3: COMPREHENSIVE CITYWIDE DISASTER PLAN:
The coordinator of emergency management and emergency planning for the city of
Dubuque shall prepare a comprehensive citywide emergency management plan
consistent with the state "standards for local disaster planning". (2007 Code §
14-23)
CHAPTER 4
ALARM SYSTEM PERMITS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Permit Required
7-4-3: Application For Permit
7-4-4: Permit Fees
7-4-5: Revocation Of Permit
7-4-6: Service Charges
7-4-7: Duties Of Chief Of Police
7-4-8: Assistance Provided
7-4-9: Prohibited Acts
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them:
ALARM: An electromechanical system designed to provide a signal upon detection
of smoke, fire, unlawful intrusion or other unusual condition or to be
activated by a person to report a crime or other unusual circumstance. Except
for the provision of subsection
7-4-9B of this chapter, this chapter is not applicable to alarms utilized
solely for the purpose of reporting smoke or fire.
DIALER: A device connected to a telephone line and providing for the
transmission of preprogrammed signals of alarm to another location by calling a
telephone number.
FALSE ALARM SIGNAL: A signal brought to the attention of the police department
and initiating a response when there is no direct or indirect evidence of a
crime committed or attempted.
LOCAL ALARM: A local alarm provides a signal on the premises in which the alarm
is installed.
REMOTE ALARM: A remote alarm provides a signal to another location but is not a
direct alarm.
SIGNAL: A sign, light, sound or the like giving notice of some condition or
event.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person who purchases, leases, contracts for, or otherwise
obtains an alarm system for premises under such person's control. (2007 Code §
38-11)
7-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No direct or remote alarm system shall be installed or put into use in the city
unless and until a permit has been obtained from the office of the chief of
police. No permit is required for local alarm systems. (2007 Code § 38-12)
7-4-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
A permit may be obtained upon payment of established fees and presentation of
the following information to the office of the chief of police:
   A.   The location of alarmed premises;
   B.   The specific areas on premises from which a signal may originate;
   C.   The names, addresses, and phone number of persons responsible for the
premises;
   D.   The name of the person responsible for payment of fees and charges;
   E.   The name and address of person providing the alarm equipment and
installation thereof. (2007 Code § 38-13)
7-4-4: PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Permit fees shall be as established by the city manager.
   B.   Permit fees will not be required for alarm systems terminated at the
police department and for which fees have been paid prior to the enactment of
this chapter. (2007 Code § 38-14)
7-4-5: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Failure To Pay Service Charge: An alarm permit shall be revoked by the
chief of police for failure to pay any service charge required by this chapter
within thirty (30) days of billing.
   B.   Excessive False Alarms: An alarm permit may be revoked by the chief of
police if more than twelve (12) false alarm signals are received in any twelve
(12) month or lesser period of time.
   C.   Notice: Notice of revocation may be given verbally or in writing and in
the case of verbal notice, a subsequent written confirmation will be given by
the office of the chief of police.
   D.   Permit Reissued: A permit which has been revoked may be reissued upon
presentation of evidence that the cause for revocation has been removed and
payment of a fee established by the city manager. "Evidence of removal of
cause" means proof of payment in the case where revocation was for nonpayment
of fees, or evidence of corrective measures taken in the case where revocation
was for excessive false alarms. (2007 Code § 38-15)
7-4-6: SERVICE CHARGES:
This section applies to direct, remote and local alarm systems:
   A.   There shall be no service charges for police department response to the
first four (4) false alarm responses in any twelve (12) month period of time.
   B.   There shall be no service charge when there has been no police response
to the alarm.
   C.   There shall be a service charge as established by the city manager for
response to the fifth and each subsequent false alarm to and including the
eighth, and a service charge as established by the city manager for the ninth
and each subsequent alarm, provided there have been at least four (4) false
alarms within the fiscal year beginning the most recent July 1.
   D.   The service charge may be waived by the chief of police in the case of
development of alarm conditions not reasonably attributable to the subscriber
or the subscriber's equipment. The police department will not serve as
intervenor in the case of disputes arising between the subscriber and any other
person regarding the delivery of service, the quality of the alarm system
equipment, or the maintenance thereof.
   E.   Alarm signals received during the first two (2) weeks after the issue
date for a permit for a new installation will not be counted for the purposes
of this section and this chapter. Nothing herein authorizes any person to
deliberately cause an alarm signal to be initiated without advance permission
from the police department. (2007 Code § 38-16)
7-4-7: DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   The chief of police will maintain a current file of all alarm systems
for which permits have been issued.
   B.   The chief of police will cause written notice to be sent to the alarm
subscriber for each false alarm signal resulting in police response. (2007 Code
§ 38-17)
7-4-8: ASSISTANCE PROVIDED:
Within its capability, the police department will provide technical assistance
or advice to any person wishing to install an alarm system or improve an
existing system. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted as requiring or
assuring any specific response by the police. (2007 Code § 38-18)
7-4-9: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No person shall install, cause to be installed, or have on such
person's premises a remote alarm system without having first obtained the
proper permit.
   B.   No person shall install or have on such person's premises an alarm
system which has an automatic dialing device programmed to call a police
department or fire department number.
   C.   No person shall install or have on such person's premises an alarm
system which has been installed after the effective date of this chapter when
such system has an audible signal unless the system includes a timing device to
stop the audible signal within fifteen (15) minutes.
   D.   No person shall deliberately cause a false alarm signal to be initiated
without first receiving permission from the police department to conduct a
test. (2007 Code § 38-19)
CHAPTER 5
OFFENSES
ARTICLE A. GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
7-5A-1: Disorderly Conduct
7-5A-2: Offenses Relating To Officers And Employees
7-5A-3: False And Fraudulent Reports
7-5A-4: False Representation Of Records Or Processes
7-5A-5: Advertising Materials; Billposting; Littering
7-5A-6: Defacing Notices
7-5A-7: Loitering For Illegal Purposes
7-5A-8: Ringing Of Bells Or Gongs
7-5A-9: Public Urination Or Defecation
7-5A-10: Projectiles, Slingshots, Knuckles Of Metal Or Other Material, Other
Weapons, And Fireworks
7-5A-11: Unauthorized Computer Access
7-5A-12: Criminal Mischief
7-5A-13: Professional Boxing Elimination Tournaments
7-5A-14: Underage Persons Entering Gambling Facilities
7-5A-15: Tobacco Products To Underage Persons
7-5A-16: Hunting And Target Practice Permitted
7-5A-17: Unlawful Assembly
7-5A-18: Unlawful Obstruction Of Public Ways And Property
7-5A-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following:
   A.   Fighting: Engage in fighting or violent behavior or invite or defy
another person to fight; provided, that participants in athletic contests may
engage in such conduct which is reasonably related to that sport.
   B.   Noise, Disturbance: Intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, or with
wanton disregard for the distress of those nearby make unusually loud or
excessive noise which results in the disturbance of the peace and the public
quiet of a neighborhood.
   C.   Noise, Breach Of The Peace: Intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, or
with wanton disregard for the distress of those nearby permit upon any premises
owned, occupied, possessed or controlled by such person any unusually loud or
excessive noise in such a manner calculated to provoke a breach of the peace of
others, or the public quiet of the neighborhood.
   D.   Abusive Language: Direct abusive language or make any threatening
gesture which the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
   E.   Disturbing Lawful Assembly: Without lawful authority or order of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
   F.   Obstructing Streets: Without authority, obstruct any street, sidewalk,
highway or other public way.
   G.   Soliciting Contributions, Peddling On Roadways: Without authority,
solicit contributions, distribute literature, or otherwise peddle or sell goods
and services within the traveled portion of any roadway. (2007 Code § 33-1;
amd. Ord. 5-20, 1-21-2020)
7-5A-2: OFFENSES RELATING TO OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Harassment Of City Employees:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully prevent, resist or
obstruct or attempt to prevent, resist or obstruct any City employee from the
performance of any official duty.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to communicate by any means, any
threat of bodily or property harm to any police officer, member of the Fire
Department or other City employee or to any member of their family during the
course of, or as a result of, the performance of any official duty by said
police officer, member of the Fire Department or City employee in which the
police officer, member of the Fire Department, or City employee is identified
as such. (2007 Code § 33-3)
   B.   Refusing To Assist Police Officer: It shall be unlawful for any person
to unreasonably refuse or neglect to render assistance when requested or
ordered by a police officer to render the police officer assistance in making
or attempting to make an arrest or to prevent the commission of any criminal
act. (2007 Code § 33-5)
   C.   Impersonating An Officer: If any person not a member of the police
force of the City wears the uniform or insignia worn by the police force of the
City, or if any person not a member of the police force, or a peace officer
represents such person as, or assumes to be, a police or peace officer, such
person shall be guilty of impersonating an officer. (2007 Code § 38-1)
   D.   Using Police Whistle: If any person, within the corporate limits of the
City, except police and peace officers, uses or sounds any police whistle or
other device used by the Police Department, such person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (2007 Code § 38-2)
   E.   Refusing Admittance To Officers: If any person refuses to admit the
Chief of Police or any other member of the police force into any place which
they may lawfully enter for the purposes of ascertaining whether a nuisance
exists or a crime has been committed, or resists, obstructs, or attempts to
resist or obstruct such officer while attempting to enter any such place, such
person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (2007 Code § 38-3)
7-5A-3: FALSE AND FRAUDULENT REPORTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally give a false or fraudulent
report of a crime, a fire, or an accident by calling any police officer,
physician, hospital, ambulance service, or Fire Department, or by crying or
sounding an alarm, or by performing any act calculated to cause such report or
alarm, or to intentionally communicate false or fraudulent information with
reference to a crime, a fire, or an accident to any police officer, physician,
hospital, ambulance, or Fire Department, or by words or action, initiate or
circulate a report of warning of epidemic or other catastrophe. (2007 Code §
33-4)
7-5A-4: FALSE REPRESENTATION OF RECORDS OR PROCESSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to represent any document or paper to be a
public record or any civil or criminal process when the person knows such
representation to be false. (2007 Code § 33-6)
7-5A-5: ADVERTISING MATERIALS; BILLPOSTING; LITTERING:
   A.   Display Of Advertising Materials On Public Property; Removal; Costs:
Whenever the City Manager shall find signs, advertising, displays or any other
materials or articles on public property, in violation of any provision of this
Code or other City ordinance or any law, the City Manager shall cause such
materials or articles to be removed and destroyed and the owner of the
materials or articles shall pay the costs incurred by the City for removing and
destroying such materials or articles.
   B.   Posting Bills Without Consent Prohibition And Exceptions:
      1.   Prohibition: No person shall deface any private dwelling, house,
building, store, room, barn, shed, fence, bridge, utility pole, sidewalk or
curbing, by posting, pasting, tacking, sticking or nailing thereon any
advertising bills, posters, or any other written or printed matter.
      2.   Exceptions: The prohibition on posting bills does not apply to:
         a.   Legal notices provided by law;
         b.   Posting bills with the consent of the property owner or agent;
         c.   Solicitors licensed in accordance with title 4, chapter 5 of this
Code;
         d.   Notices posted by governmental entities; and
         e.   Notices posted due to emergency conditions for the protection of
public health, safety, and welfare.
   C.   Littering: No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or
land, except that nothing in this subsection shall be construed to affect the
authorized collection and discarding of such litter in or on areas or
receptacles provided for such purpose. (Ord. 36-18, 9-17-2018)
7-5A-6: DEFACING NOTICES:
If any person, within the corporate limits of the City, defaces or tears down
any notice, ordinance or advertisement posted by order of the City Council or
any officer of the City, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (2007
Code § 3-2)
7-5A-7: LOITERING FOR ILLEGAL PURPOSES:
   A.   Prostitution:
      1.   Definitions: For the purposes of this subsection, the words "public
place", "prostitution" and "known prostitute or panderer" shall be defined as
follows:
         KNOWN PROSTITUTE OR PANDERER: A person who, previous to the date of
arrest or violation of this subsection, has been convicted of an offense
involving prostitution.
         PROSTITUTION: The same as set forth in the code of Iowa, as amended.
         PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley, plaza, park,
driveway, parking lot, communication facility or transportation facility or the
doorway or other opening of any building adjacent to such places.
      2.   Prohibition: No person shall loiter in or near any public place in a
manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose of selling, inducting,
enticing, soliciting or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution.
Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such
purpose is manifested are that such person:
         a.   Is a known prostitute or panderer;
         b.   Repeatedly beckons to, stops, or attempts to stop or engages
passersby in conversation;
         c.   Repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor vehicle operators by
hailing, waving of arms, or any other bodily gesture;
         d.   Repeatedly interferes with the free passage of other persons; or
         e.   Engages in such conduct in a geographic location where previous
prostitution arrests have occurred.
      3.   Conduct To Demonstrate Specific Intent: The violator's conduct must
be such as to demonstrate a specific intent to induce, entice, solicit or
procure another to commit an act of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for
violation of this subsection unless the arresting officer first affords such
person an opportunity to explain such conduct. (2007 Code § 33-8)
   B.   Intimidation, Disorderly Conduct, Drug Related Offenses:
      1.   Definitions: For the purposes of this subsection, the following
terms shall have the following meanings:
         DISORDERLY CONDUCT: Conduct declared unlawful by this subsection.
         DRUG SALE, DRUG USE OR DRUG DISTRIBUTION: Conduct which demonstrates a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to buy, use or
accept illegal drugs, including the unlawful use of legal drugs.
         GANG AFFILIATION: A person shall be considered to have a gang
affiliation if that person, prior to the date of arrest for violation of this
subsection, has been identified by police as a gang member, has admitted to
being a gang member, has been observed to have repeated contact with persons
known to police to be gang members, or has been observed by police verbalizing
gang names or using hand signals known to police to be gang related.
         INTIMIDATION: Conduct which repeatedly interferes with the free
passage of other persons in or into public places or which demonstrates an
attempt to discourage the free passage of other persons in or into public
places.
         KNOWN DRUG DEALER: Any person who, prior to the date of the arrest for
violation of this subsection, has been arrested for or convicted of an offense
involving illegal drugs.
         PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, sidewalk, alley, plaza, park, driveway,
parking lot, communication facility, transportation facility or the doorway or
other opening of any building adjacent to such places.
      2.   Prohibition: No person shall loiter, nor shall any person willingly
join in or remain a part of a group which is loitering knowing or having
reasonable grounds to believe it is such, in or near any public place in a
manner and under circumstances manifesting intimidation, disorderly conduct,
drug sale, drug use, or drug distribution or remain in an area where disorderly
conduct is occurring or has occurred after being told by police to move from
the area. Among the circumstances that may be considered in determining whether
such loitering is manifested are that such person:
         a.   Is a known drug dealer; or
         b.   Has a gang affiliation; or
         c.   Is in a group of three (3) or more people in a public place
without the permission or authority of the adjacent property owner or resident
and repeatedly beckons to, stops, or attempts to stop or engage passersby in
unsolicited conversation; or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by yelling, hailing, waving of arms, giving hand signals or other
similar bodily gestures, or calling out gang names; or
         d.   Is in a group of three (3) or more people for a period of time
longer than fifteen (15) minutes in a public place where disorderly conduct is
occurring or has recently occurred; or
         e.   Is making repeated exchanges of packages or money with other
persons who stop for short periods of time when none of the parties to the
exchange have a valid permit to engage in business or solicitation; or
         f.   Evidences an intent to establish a public place as the territory
of a gang including the verbalization of gang names and/or the use of hand
signals known to be gang related. (2007 Code § 33-16)
7-5A-8: RINGING OF BELLS OR GONGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of this City to
ring or sound any bell, auction bell, gong, or similar device upon the streets
or alleys within the City so as to disturb the peace. (2007 Code § 33-2)
7-5A-9: PUBLIC URINATION OR DEFECATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in or upon any
public or common property including, but not limited to, streets, alleys,
sidewalks or in any other place where the person could reasonably expect to be
seen by the public. This section shall not apply to private restrooms or public
facilities designated for such purpose. (Ord. 18-16, 5-16-2016)
7-5A-10: PROJECTILES, SLINGSHOTS, KNUCKLES OF METAL OR OTHER MATERIAL, OTHER
WEAPONS, AND FIREWORKS:
   A.   Shooting Projectiles:
      1.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person within the
corporate limits of the City to willfully or carelessly throw, shoot, or launch
any stone, stick, projectile, or other missile in such a manner as to hit,
injure, or endanger any person or property.
      2.   Deer Hunting Excepted: Nothing herein shall prohibit the hunting
with bow and arrow of deer by persons licensed by and during the period of time
authorized by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources and issued a permit by
the City in accordance with the Deer Management Program adopted by the City
Manager or City Manager's designee.
   B.   Slingshots, Knuckles Of Metal Or Other Material, Air Gun, Spring-Loaded
Gun, Replica Firearms, And Other Weapons: It shall be unlawful for any person
to carry or conceal about their person any slingshot, knuckles of metal or
other material, air gun, spring loaded gun, replica firearm represented as a
real firearm, or any other weapon other than a knife, when such weapon is
represented to be carried for the purpose of protection or use as a weapon.
   C.   Discharging Firearms:
      1.   Prohibition: No person shall discharge or fire any cannon, gun,
bomb, pistol, air gun, spring loaded gun, or other firearms, or other device
containing any explosive. Discharge or firing of air guns or spring loaded guns
used for training, recreational, or competitive events is allowed in accordance
with section
7-5A-16 of this article.
      2.   Firing Range Permit: The City Council may, upon application in
writing, grant a permit for the operation of a firing range in which the
discharge of firearms for training, recreational or competitive events would be
allowed upon showing that the range would be under the direction of a competent
organization, group or individual.
      3.   Firearms Used To Control Rodent Or Animal Problems: In the interest
of public health and safety and at such times as approved by the Chief of
Police, the police or their designee may use firearms to control rodent or
animal problems when it is evident that conventional control methods have not
resolved the problem.
      4.   Blank Cartridge Use For Shows: Nothing herein shall be construed to
prohibit the use of blank cartridges for a show or the theater, or for signal
purposes in athletic sports or by railroads, or trucks, for signal purposes, or
by a recognized military organization; and provided further, that nothing in
this subsection shall apply to any substance or composition prepared and used
for medicinal or fumigation purposes.
   D.   Discharging Fireworks.
      1.   Definitions: For purposes of this section consumer fireworks,
display fireworks, and novelties shall be defined as outlined in Iowa Code
§727.2(1) or any subsequent location within the Iowa Code.
      2.   Novelties shall be allowed year round.
      3.   Prohibition: No person shall discharge, fire, light, set off, or
burn, or otherwise use any consumer fireworks, or other device containing any
explosive except on the following dates and times and pursuant to the following
conditions:
         a.    Dates and times:
            (1)   July 3: 9 a.m. to 10 p.m.
            (2)   July 4: 9 a.m. to 11 p.m.
            (3)   December 31: 9 a.m. through 11:59 p.m.
         b.   Conditions:
            (1)   Consumer fireworks may only be used on the real property of
the person using the consumer fireworks or the real property of a person who
has consented to the use of consumer fireworks on such property.
            (2)   Consumer fireworks may not be used on any public property,
including but not limited to any public street, public right-of-way, sidewalk,
park, parkway, trail, or open space, place, or way.
      4.   Display Fireworks Display Permit: The City Council may, upon
application in writing, grant a permit for the display and use of display
fireworks by any organization or groups of individuals when such display
fireworks display will be handled by a competent operator.
      5.   Penalties: A person violating any provision of subsection D
(paragraph 3) above shall be guilty of a simple misdemeanor and subject to a
fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      6.   Selling Consumer Fireworks Within Corporate City Limits: A person or
entity selling consumer fireworks within the corporate City limits must provide
the City Fire Department with a copy of the seller's State-issued license to
sell consumer fireworks and proof of insurance as required by State Code. A
fireworks seller must also display signage on the seller's premises which
states that the use of consumer fireworks is prohibited within corporate City
limits except as outlined in subsection D (3) above. (Ord. 29-17, 7-5-2017;
amd. Ord. 23-25, 6-16-2025)
7-5A-11: UNAUTHORIZED COMPUTER ACCESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and without authorization
access a computer, computer system or a computer network. (2007 Code § 33-12)
7-5A-12: CRIMINAL MISCHIEF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, deface, alter or destroy any
tangible property when done intentionally by one who has no right to so act.
(2007 Code § 33-13)
7-5A-13: PROFESSIONAL BOXING ELIMINATION TOURNAMENTS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
      ELIMINATION TOURNAMENT: A boxing contest or exhibition in which
contestants box one another, two (2) at a time, with one (1) contestant being
eliminated from the tournament. This elimination continues, with winners from
the various bouts competing, until only one (1) contestant remains undefeated
in the weight division.
      PROFESSIONAL BOXING: A boxing contest or exhibition, open to the public,
for which any principal or contestant is paid.
   B.   Prohibition: No person shall promote, participate in, or allow
professional boxing that is part of an elimination tournament within the City.
(2007 Code § 33-14)
7-5A-14: UNDERAGE PERSONS ENTERING GAMBLING FACILITIES:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to enter or attempt to enter a facility licensed under
Iowa Code to operate gambling games.
   B.   Persons Excepted: Subsection A of this section shall not apply to a
person under the age of twenty one (21) years who is:
      1.   An employee of the licensee or performing a contracted service for
the licensee at the facility;
      2.   A public official or employee while at the facility in the
performance of such person's official duties;
      3.   A person going directly to or from an area at the facility
specifically designated for activities for persons under the age of twenty one
(21) years, if accompanied by a person over the age of twenty one (21) years
and if such person first contacts a representative of the licensee.
   C.   Area Or Facility Exempted: Subsection A of this section shall not apply
to a facility or that portion of a facility licensed by the State for pari-
mutuel gaming. (2007 Code § 33-15)
7-5A-15: TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   Restrictions:
      1.   A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age.
      2.   A person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall not smoke, use,
possess, purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
      3.   Possession of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, vapor products, or cigarettes by an individual under twenty-one (21)
years of age does not constitute a violation under this section if the
individual under twenty-one (21) years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the individual's employment and the individual is employed by a person who
holds a valid permit under the Iowa Code or who lawfully offers for sale or
sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
      4.   a.   A person shall not be guilty of a violation of this section if
conduct that would otherwise constitute a violation is performed to assess
compliance with tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor
products, or cigarette laws if any of the following applies:
         (1)   The compliance effort is conducted by or under the supervision
of law enforcement officers.
         (2)   The compliance effort is conducted with the advance knowledge of
law enforcement officers and reasonable measures are adopted by those
conducting the effort to ensure that use of tobacco, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes by individuals
under twenty-one (21) years of age does not result from participation by any
individual under twenty-one (21) years of age in the compliance effort.
         b.   For the purposes of this subsection, "law enforcement officer"
means a peace officer as defined in Iowa Code section 801.4 and includes
persons designated under this subsection to enforce this section.
   B.   Penalty:
      1.   a.   A person, other than a retailer, who violates subsection A1 of
this section, is guilty of a simple misdemeanor.
         b.   An employee of a retailer who violates subsection A1 of this
section, commits a simple misdemeanor punishable as a scheduled violation under
Iowa Code section 805.8C.
      2.   A person who violates subsection A2 of this section, is subject to
the following, as applicable:
         a.   A civil penalty pursuant to Iowa Code section 805.8C.
         b.   For a first offense, performance of eight (8) hours of community
work requirements, unless waived by the court.
         c.   For a second offense, performance of twelve (12) hours of
community work requirements.
         d.   For a third or subsequent offense, performance of sixteen (16)
hours of community work requirements. (Ord. 17-16, 5-16-2016; amd. Ord. 29-20,
8-3-2020)
7-5A-16: HUNTING AND TARGET PRACTICE PERMITTED:
   A.   Shotgun Hunting:
      1.   Permit Issuance; Conditions: Subsections 7-5A-10A and C of this
article notwithstanding, the City Manager may issue an annual permit to a
property owner for hunting within the corporate limits of the City on the
owner's property, if the City Manager determines that the property meets the
following conditions:
         a.   The property is zoned AG Agricultural;
         b.   The property is not less than ten (10) contiguous acres or more
in size; and
         c.   Allowing hunting on the property will not constitute a danger to
public safety.
      2.   Application: An application to allow hunting shall be filed with the
City Manager on a form provided by the City Manager. The application must
include the following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
         b.   The address where the hunting will take place;
         c.   A site plan shall be a dimension drawing showing the following:
            (1)   North arrow;
            (2)   Property lines;
            (3)   Location of buildings on the subject property and dimensions;
and
            (4)   Location of buildings on adjacent property, public streets,
recreational trails or public waters.
Falsification of information on an application is grounds for denial or
revocation of a permit.
      3.   Approval Or Rejection; Permit Term: The City Manager shall, upon
consideration of the application and the information required herein, approve
or reject the application. A permit is valid for a period of one (1) year from
the date thereof.
      4.   Nonrefundable Fee: At the time of filing the application, the
applicant shall pay to the City a nonrefundable permit fee established by the
City Manager.
      5.   Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit; Appeal: A permit may be revoked
or suspended by the city manager by written notice for a violation of any of
the provisions of this section or any other ordinances of the city or the laws
of the United States or the state of Iowa. The permittee may file with the city
clerk a written notice of appeal to the city council from the suspension or
revocation.
      6.   Compliance With State And Local Laws: A hunter shall comply with all
state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances governing hunting.
      7.   Firearms Limited: The only firearm authorized for hunting is a
shotgun with shot ammunition size 4-9. The use of slugs, rifles, pistols, deer
slugs, and black powder rifles and all other firearms or other weapons is
prohibited.
      8.   Notify Police Prior To Hunting: The permittee shall notify police
dispatch at the Dubuque law enforcement center, on the day on which hunting
will occur and prior to the commencement of any hunting, of the location where
the hunting will occur.
      9.   Approved Times: Hunting will be allowed from one-half (1/2) hour
before sunrise to one-half (1/2) hour after sunset.
      10.   Discharging Firearm: A hunter shall not discharge a shotgun in the
direction of any person, livestock, building, public street, recreational trail
or public waters. (Ord. 20-13, 4-1-2013)
   B.   Shotgun Target Practice:
      1.   Permit Issuance; Conditions: Subsections 7-5A-10A and C of this
article notwithstanding, the city manager may issue an annual permit to a
property owner for target practice within the corporate limits of the city on
the owner's property, if the city manager determines that the property meets
the following conditions:
         a.   The property is zoned AG agriculture;
         b.   The property is not less than ten (10) contiguous acres or more
in size;
         c.   The property owner agrees to be present to supervise target
practice on the owner's property; and
         d.   Allowing target practice on the property will not constitute a
danger to public safety.
      2.   Application: An application to allow target practice shall be filed
with the city manager on a form provided by the city manager. The application
must include the following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
         b.   The address where the target practice will take place;
         c.   A site plan shall be a dimension drawing showing the following:
            (1)   North arrow;
            (2)   Property lines;
            (3)   Location of buildings on the subject property and dimensions;
and
            (4)   Location of buildings on adjacent property, public streets,
recreational trails or public waters.
Falsification of information on an application is grounds for denial or
revocation of a permit.
      3.   Approval Or Rejection; Permit Term: The city manager shall, upon
consideration of the application and the information required herein, approve
or reject the application. A permit is valid for a period of one year from the
date thereof.
      4.   Nonrefundable Fee: At the time of filing the application, the
applicant shall pay to the city a nonrefundable permit fee established by the
city manager.
      5.   Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit; Appeal: A permit may be revoked
or suspended by the city manager by written notice for a violation of any of
the provisions of this section or any other ordinances of the city or the laws
of the United States or the state of Iowa. The permittee may file with the city
clerk a written notice of appeal to the city council from the suspension or
revocation.
      6.   Compliance With State And Local Laws: A person engaged in target
practice must comply with all State and local laws, rules, regulations and
ordinances governing target practice.
      7.   Firearms Limited: The only firearm authorized for target practice is
a shotgun with shot ammunition size 4-9. The use of slugs, rifles, pistols,
deer slugs, and black powder rifles and all other firearms or other weapons is
prohibited.
      8.   Notify Police Prior To Target Practice: The permittee shall notify
police dispatch at the Dubuque Law Enforcement Center, on the day on which
target practice will occur and prior to the commencement of any target
practice, of the location where the target practice will occur.
      9.   Approved Times: Target practice will be allowed from one- half (1/2)
hour before sunrise to one-half (1/2) hour after sunset.
      10.   Discharging Shotgun: A person engaged in target practice shall not
discharge a shotgun in the direction of any person, livestock, building, public
street, recreational trail or public waters.
      11.   Exception: An exception to these rules may be granted if approved
through a City of Dubuque special events permit. (Ord. 55-13, 12-16-2013)
   C.   Bow And Arrow Hunting:
      1.   Permitted: Bow and arrow hunting will be allowed within City limits
in accordance with the Deer Management Program adopted by the City Manager or
City Manager's designee.
      2.   Exception: An exception to these rules may be granted if approved
through a City of Dubuque special events permit. (Ord. 30-17, 7-5-2017)
   D.   Target Practice; Weapons Other Than Shotguns:
      1.   Allowed With Conditions: Target practice will be allowed under the
following conditions:
         a.   Weapons approved for target practice are limited to bow and
arrows and air guns;
         b.   No other weapons are approved for target practice;
         c.   The property where the target practice will occur is not less
than three (3) contiguous acres or more in size;
         d.   Adjacent property may be used to meet the three (3) acre minimum,
with the written permission of the adjacent property owner;
         e.   The property owner agrees to be present to supervise target
practice on the owner's property;
         f.   Allowing target practice on the property will not constitute a
danger to public safety; and
         g.   There are no homes or businesses within one hundred fifty feet
(150').
      2.   Exception: An exception to these rules may be granted if approved
through a City of Dubuque special events permit. (Ord. 20-13, 4-1-2013)
7-5A-17: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY:
   A.   Definition: An "unlawful assembly" is three (3) or more persons
assembled together, with them or any of them acting in a violent manner, and
with intent that they or any of them will commit a public offense or causing
other persons to be intimidated, harassed or placed in fear of bodily harm.
   B.   Prohibited Act: It is unlawful for a person to willingly join in or
remain a part of an unlawful assembly, knowing or having reasonable grounds to
believe that it is such.
   C.   Refusal To Disperse: It is unlawful for any person within the hearing
distance of a police officer who orders the participants in an unlawful
assembly of persons in the immediate vicinity of an unlawful assembly to refuse
to disperse.
   D.   Lawful Assemblies Excepted: Nothing in this section will be construed
to prevent persons from gathering together in orderly or lawful assemblies
which will not result in the disturbance of the peace or disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 35-14, 5-19-2014)
7-5A-18: UNLAWFUL OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY:
   A.   Definition: The term "camp" or "camping" shall mean the use of public
property as a temporary or permanent place of dwelling, lodging, or residence,
or as a living accommodation at any time between sunset or sunrise, or as a
sojourn. Indicia of camping may include, but are not limited to, storage of
personal belongings, using tents or other temporary structures for sleeping or
storage of personal belongings, carrying on cooking activities or making any
fire in an unauthorized area, or any of these activities in combination with
one another or in combination with either sleeping or making preparation to
sleep, including the laying down or placement of bedding for the purpose of
sleeping.
   B.   Prohibited Act: It is unlawful for any person to camp or to place any
camp upon any public street, sidewalk, park, building, or land, except while
camping in areas specifically designated for camping by the City Manager and
while acting in accordance with all rules, regulations, and ordinances
pertaining to camping in such designated areas, or as otherwise permitted by
this code.
   C.   Penalty: A violation of this section may be prosecuted as a criminal or
civil matter, and, upon conviction, an individual is subject to a penalty and
other relief in accordance with sections
1-4-1 and
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 30-22, 9-6-2022)
ARTICLE B. DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
7-5B-1: Drug Paraphernalia Defined
7-5B-2: Prohibited Acts
7-5B-3: Under The Influence Of Controlled Substance
7-5B-4: Sniffing Glue Or Other Chemical Substances
7-5B-1: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA DEFINED:
   A.   Definition: The term "drug paraphernalia" means all equipment, products
and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use, or designed for
use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance in
violation of the uniform controlled substance act. It includes, but is not
limited to:
      1.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      2.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled
substances;
      3.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
      4.   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances;
      5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      6.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose or lactose, used, intended for use or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      7.   Separating gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
      8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used or designed
for use in packaging small quantities of controlled substances;
      10.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed for
use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use or designed for use in parenterally injected controlled substances into the
human body;
      12.   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
         b.   Water pipes;
         c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         e.   Roach clips; meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such
as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         f.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         g.   Chamber pipes;
         h.   Carburetor pipes;
         i.   Electric pipes;
         j.   Air driven pipes;
         k.   Chillums;
         l.   Bongs;
         m.   Ice pipes or chillers.
   B.   Factors In Determination: In determining whether an object is drug
paraphernalia, for the purpose of enforcing this article, the following factors
should be considered in addition to all logically relevant factors:
      1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object under any state or federal law relating to any controlled substance;
      3.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of the uniform controlled substances act;
      4.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      5.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
      6.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom the owner knows,
or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation
of the uniform controlled substances act; the innocence of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, as to a direct violation of the uniform
controlled substances act should not prevent a finding that the object is
intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      7.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      8.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      9.   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      10.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      11.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      12.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      13.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community;
      14.   Expert testimony concerning its use. (2007 Code § 33-81)
7-5B-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia: No person shall use or possess with
intent to use drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the uniform
controlled substances act. Any person who violates this subsection is guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be punished as provided in this code.
   B.   Manufacture Or Delivery Of Drug Paraphernalia: No person shall deliver,
possess with intent to deliver, or manufacture with intent to deliver, drug
paraphernalia, knowing or under circumstances where one reasonably should know,
that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the uniform
controlled substances act. Any person who violates this subsection is guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be punished as provided in this code.
   C.   Advertisement Of Drug Paraphernalia: No person shall place or accept
for placement in any newspaper, magazine, handbill or other publication, any
advertisement, knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should
know, that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote
the sale of objects designed or intended for use as drug paraphernalia. Any
person who violates this subsection is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, may be punished as provided in this code. (2007 Code § 33-82)
7-5B-3: UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE:
A person shall not be under the influence or simulate being under the influence
of a controlled substance in violation of the uniform controlled substances act
in a public place. (2007 Code § 33-83)
7-5B-4: SNIFFING GLUE OR OTHER CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES:
No person shall, for the purpose of causing a condition of intoxication,
euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, stupefaction, or dulling of the senses or
nervous system, smell or inhale the fumes from any glue, cement, aerosol spray,
inhalers, and other solvents or chemicals having the property of releasing
vapors; however, this section shall not apply to the inhalation of any medicine
or anesthesia for medical or dental purposes. (2007 Code § 33-84)
ARTICLE C. CRIME PROPERTY
SECTION:
7-5C-1: Definitions
7-5C-2: Specified Crime Property Prohibited
7-5C-3: Preenforcement Procedure
7-5C-4: Procedure For Enforcement
7-5C-5: Notice
7-5C-6: Service Of Notice
7-5C-7: Effect Of Notice
7-5C-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or unless the context clearly indicates a
different intent, the following terms shall, for the purpose of this article,
have the following meanings:
ABATE OR ABATEMENT: A. As applied to an owner/occupant, the removal or
correction of the condition or circumstances causing the property to be a
specified crime property.
   B.   As applied to a nonoccupant owner, the initiation and good faith
continuation of all such actions or steps as may be reasonable and legal under
the circumstances, and which would ordinarily lead to an abatement of the
condition or circumstances causing the property to be a specified crime
property.
BOOTLEGGING: The illegal sale or service of alcoholic liquor, wine or beer in
violation of Iowa Code.
CHIEF OF POLICE: Includes the chief's designee.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: A drug, substance or immediate precursor as defined by
Iowa Code.
GAMBLING: Games of skill or chance as defined by Iowa Code and prohibited by
Iowa Code.
OWNER: Any person, including a mortgagee in possession, in whom is vested all
or part of the legal title to property or all or part of the beneficial
ownership and the right to the present use and enjoyment of the premises, or an
occupant of that structure.
PERSON: Any natural person, association, partnership, corporation or other
legal entity capable of owning or using property.
PROSTITUTION, PIMPING AND PANDERING: Those acts or activities as defined in
Iowa Code.
SPECIFIED CRIME PROPERTY: Any real property on which the unauthorized delivery
or manufacture of a controlled substance, illegal gambling, bootlegging,
prostitution, pimping, or pandering, physical assault or threat of physical
assault, illegal use and possession of firearms or other weapons or the threat
to use a firearm or weapon illegally is occurring. (2007 Code § 33-101)
7-5C-2: SPECIFIED CRIME PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
No person shall knowingly use or allow to be used any structure as a specified
crime property. (2007 Code § 33-102)
7-5C-3: PREENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE:
Upon the direction of the chief of police, based on police information, or the
receipt by the chief of police of three (3) written complaints of activity as
set forth in the Iowa Code:
   A.   Notify Property Owner: A letter shall be sent to the property owner and
any occupant engaged in such activity by the chief of police, notifying the
owner and occupant that complaints have been received and advising the owner
and occupant of the provisions of this article.
   B.   Police Action: The chief of police shall take such action as may be
necessary to determine if the complaints are valid. (2007 Code § 33-103)
7-5C-4: PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Specified Crimes: When the chief of police has probable cause
to believe that a structure is being used or maintained in violation of this
article, the chief of police shall notify the owner of record in writing that
the structure is declared to be a specified crime property.
   B.   Probable Cause, Conditions: Probable cause shall include any condition
or activity carried out in the structure by a tenant, or any person on the
premises with the consent of the tenant, which constitutes a clear and present
danger to the health or safety of other tenants, the landlord, or the
landlord's employees or agents, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Possession of a controlled substance unless the controlled substance
was obtained directly from or pursuant to a valid prescription or order by a
licensed medical practitioner while acting in the course of the practitioner's
professional practice, or any combination of evidence of drug paraphernalia in
and around the structure, an increase in vehicular or pedestrian traffic in and
around the structure for the purpose of conducting illegal activity, and
observations of the exchange of money for controlled substances, or
unauthorized delivery or manufacture of a controlled substance;
      2.   Illegal gambling, bootlegging, prostitution, pimping or pandering;
      3.   Physical assault or threat of physical assault; or
      4.   Illegal use of firearms or other weapons, the threat to use a
firearm or other weapon illegally, or possession of an illegal firearm or
weapon. (2007 Code § 33-104)
7-5C-5: NOTICE:
The notice required by section
7-5C-4 of this article shall notify the owner and occupant that the structure
has been declared to be a specified crime property, and shall contain the
following information:
   A.   The street address and a description sufficient for identification of
the premises on which the structure is located; and
   B.   A statement that the chief of police has found the structure or portion
thereof to be in violation of this article together with a statement of the
condition or activity and the basis upon which the structure has been declared
a specified crime property. (2007 Code § 33-105)
7-5C-6: SERVICE OF NOTICE:
A copy of the notice shall be served on the owner not less than twenty (20)
days prior to the commencement of any judicial action by the city. Service
shall be made either personally or by mailing a copy of the notice by
registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the
owner at the owner's address as it appears in the records of the county
auditor. A copy of the notice shall also be served on the occupant of the
structure if the occupant is different from the owner not less than ten (10)
days prior to the commencement of any judicial action by the city and may be
made personally or by mailing a copy of the notice by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to the occupant at the structure. In the event that notice cannot be
served upon the occupant as set out above, a copy of the notice shall be posted
at the property after ten (10) days have elapsed from the service or mailing of
the notice to the occupant and no response or reply has been received by the
city from the owner or occupant during the ten (10) day period. (2007 Code §
33-106)
7-5C-7: EFFECT OF NOTICE:
   A.   Time Limit For Abatement: An owner shall have ten (10) days from the
date of receipt of the notice to abate the condition or activity specified in
the notice. In the case of a landlord tenant relationship, the owner shall be
deemed to have abated the activity or condition upon demonstration that the
owner has taken legal action as allowed by chapter 562A of the code of Iowa to
terminate the rental agreement, has continued in good faith to follow abatement
procedures, and has provided the chief of police with copies of all notices
served in accordance with chapter 562A of the code of Iowa.
   B.   Police Chief Testimony Regarding Forcible Entry: The chief of police
shall be available, upon reasonable notice, to testify in support of any
forcible entry and detainer action resulting from any action initiated by the
chief of police in furtherance of this article.
   C.   Failure To Abate; Police Chief Action: If the chief of police
determines that a specified crime property has not been abated as required by
this section, an action may be filed pursuant to the code of Iowa. (2007 Code §
33-107)
ARTICLE D. PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
7-5D-1: Definitions
7-5D-2: Reasonable Control Over Minor
7-5D-3: Violation
7-5D-4: Penalties
7-5D-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words have the following meanings when used in this article,
unless a different meaning is clear from context or usage:
MINOR: Any person who has not attained the age of eighteen (18) years.
PARENT: A father, mother, legal guardian or any other person having or who has
assumed the care, control or custody by birth, by court order, on a voluntary
basis, or otherwise. (Ord. 28-11, 3-21-2011)
7-5D-2: REASONABLE CONTROL OVER MINOR:
A parent must exercise reasonable control over the parent's minor to prevent
the minor from committing any unlawful act in violation of federal or state law
or city ordinances. (Ord. 28-11, 3-21-2011)
7-5D-3: VIOLATION:
A failure by a parent to exercise reasonable control over the parent's minor
which causes the minor to commit an unlawful act is a violation of this
article. (Ord. 28-11, 3-21-2011)
7-5D-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   For a first violation of section
7-5D-3 of this article, the city will issue the parent a warning letter that
the parent is in violation of section 7-5D-3 of this article with a description
of the nature of the parent's violation and a statement setting forth the fines
and/or consequences of future violations.
   B.   A second violation of section
7-5D-3 of this article is a municipal infraction for which the fine is two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). In lieu of a fine, and subject to the approval
of the chief of police, the parent may elect to attend, successfully complete,
and provide proof of completion within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
date of the notice of the violation, a recognized course of instruction on
parenting skills and/or techniques but only if the parent has not previously
attended such course under subsection B of this section.
   C.   A third violation of section
7-5D-3 of this article is a municipal infraction for which the fine is five
hundred dollars ($500.00). In lieu of a fine, and subject to the approval of
the chief of police, the parent may elect to attend, successfully complete, and
provide proof of completion within one hundred eighty (180) days of the date of
the notice of the violation, a recognized course of instruction on parenting
skills and/or techniques but only if the parent has not previously attended
such course under subsection B of this section.
   D.   A fourth and any subsequent violation of section
7-5D-3 of this article is a municipal infraction for which the fine is one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each such violation. In addition, the chief of
police will refer the violation to the county attorney for review of whether
the issuance of a criminal charge under Iowa Code section 709A.1 and/or whether
a proceeding under Iowa Code chapter 232, child or family in need of
assistance, is appropriate. (Ord. 28-11, 3-21-2011; amd. Ord. 2-20, 1-21-2020)
ARTICLE E. SOCIAL HOST RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
7-5E-1: Purpose
7-5E-2: Definitions
7-5E-3: Social Host Duties
7-5E-4: Prohibited Acts
7-5E-5: Exemption
7-5E-6: Affirmative Defense
7-5E-7: Evidence Of Possession And Consumption
7-5E-8: Penalties
7-5E-9: Enforcement
7-5E-10: Severability
7-5E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to prohibit the consumption of alcoholic
beverages by persons under the legal drinking age of twenty one (21) at
gatherings where social hosts know or have reason to know, allow, or permit
underage persons to drink alcoholic beverages on property such social hosts own
or control. This article is enacted to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the residents of the city of Dubuque and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and
convenience of the residents of the city of Dubuque. (Ord. 45-12, 7-16-2012)
7-5E-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this article, have the following
meaning:
ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, whiskey,
rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage in any form that contains more than one-half
(1/2) of one percent (1%) of alcohol by volume including alcoholic liquor,
wine, or beer.
CITY MANAGER: City manager or the city manager's designee.
EMERGENCY RESPONDERS: Firefighters, law enforcement officers, emergency medical
service personnel, and other personnel having emergency response duties.
ENFORCEMENT SERVICES: The salaries and benefits of emergency responders for the
amount of time spent responding to or remaining at an event, gathering, or
party and administrative costs attributable to the incident; the actual costs
for medical treatment for any injured emergency responder, and the costs of
repairing any damage to equipment or vehicles.
EVENT, GATHERING, OR PARTY: Any group of three (3) or more persons who have
assembled or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
LEGAL DRINKING AGE: Twenty one (21) years of age or older.
MINOR: A person under the age of eighteen (18).
PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a minor:
   A.   As a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent;
   B.   As a legal guardian; or
   C.   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the court.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, or any association of one or
more individuals.
POSSESSION OR CONTROL: Actual possession or constructive possession based on
facts, which permits the inference of intent to possess or control alcoholic
beverages.
PREMISES: Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment, condominium, hotel or
motel room, other dwelling unit, hall or meeting room, garage, barn, park,
tent, camper/RV, or any other place conducive to assembly, public or private,
whether occupied on a permanent or temporary basis, whether occupied as a
dwelling or specifically for an event, gathering, or party, and whether owned,
leased, rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
PUBLIC PLACE: The same as defined in Iowa Code section 123.3(36).
SOCIAL HOST: A. Any person who aids, allows, entertains, organizes, supervises,
controls, or permits an event, gathering, or party. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      1.    The person who owns, rents, leases, or otherwise has control of the
premises where the event, gathering, or party takes place;
      2.   The person(s) in charge of the premises; or
      3.    The person(s) responsible for organizing the event, gathering, or
party.
   B.   If the social host is a minor or under the legal drinking age, and the
social host's parent(s) are present on the premises and know or reasonably
should know of the event, gathering, or party and know or reasonably should
know that the consumption of alcohol is occurring, the parents are also social
hosts.
UNDERAGE PERSON: Any person under the age of twenty one (21). (Ord. 45-12, 7-
16-2012; amd. Ord. 46-12, 8-20-2012)
7-5E-3: SOCIAL HOST DUTIES:
It is the duty of the social host of an event, gathering, or party to take all
reasonable steps to prevent alcoholic beverages from being possessed or
consumed by underage persons on the premises. Reasonable steps include, but are
not limited to:
   A.   Controlling underage persons' access to alcoholic beverages;
   B.   Controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages;
   C.   Verifying the age of persons being served, in the possession of, or
consuming alcoholic beverages at the event, gathering, or party by inspecting
driver's licenses or other government issued identification cards;
   D.   Supervising the activities of underage persons at the party; and
   E.   Notifying law enforcement of underage possession or consumption of
alcoholic beverages, and allowing law enforcement to enter the premises for the
purpose of stopping the possession or consumption by underage persons. (Ord.
45-12, 7-16-2012)
7-5E-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any social host of an event, gathering, or party on
the social host's premises to knowingly permit or allow underage persons to
consume alcoholic beverages, or knowingly permit or allow underage persons to
possess alcoholic beverages on the premises, whether or not the social host is
present on the premises.
   B.   It is unlawful for any social host to host an event, gathering, or
party on premises when the person knows or reasonably should know that an
underage person has consumed an alcoholic beverage, or possesses an alcoholic
beverage with the intent to consume it, and the social host fails to take
reasonable steps to prevent the possession or consumption by the underage
person. A social host who hosts such an event, gathering, or party does not
have to be present at the time the prohibited act occurs. (Ord. 45-12, 7-16-
2012)
7-5E-5: EXEMPTION:
This article does not apply to the exceptions enumerated in Iowa Code section
123.47(2) for persons possessing alcohol while under the legal age or to
persons possessing alcohol as part of legally protected religious observances,
or to situations where underage persons are lawfully in possession of alcoholic
beverages during the course and scope of their employment. (Ord. 45-12, 7-16-
2012)
7-5E-6: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
A social host has an affirmative defense if the social host took reasonable
steps to prevent the possession or consumption of alcohol, or notified law
enforcement and allowed law enforcement to enter the premises for the purpose
of stopping the illegal activities. (Ord. 45-12, 7-16-2012)
7-5E-7: EVIDENCE OF POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION:
   A.   A specific legislative finding has been made by the city council that
preliminary breath screening tests (PBTs) which have been approved by the
department of public safety for use in public intoxication cases, are accurate
in determining the presence or absence of alcohol in a person's body. Such
devices are valuable tools in the investigation of unlawful consumption of
alcohol. Therefore, at trial, evidence obtained during the administration of
preliminary breath testing, including test results expressed in terms of
alcohol concentration, are admissible on the issue of whether a person under
the legal drinking age consumed alcohol.
   B.   A person under the legal drinking age who has consumed alcohol is
presumed to have had the same in his or her possession or control prior to its
consumption. (Ord. 45-12, 7-16-2012)
7-5E-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   A violation of section
7-5E-4 of this article will be punishable as outlined in either section
1-4-1 or
1-4-2 of this code.
   B.   The city may also seek reimbursement for enforcement services provided
by emergency responders related to the event, gathering, or party. (Ord. 46-12,
8-20-2012)
7-5E-9: ENFORCEMENT:
The city manager has primary but not exclusive enforcement responsibility for
this article. (Ord. 45-12, 7-16-2012)
7-5E-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, provision, sentence, clause, phrase, or part of this article is
adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the
validity of this article as a whole or any provision, section, subsection,
clause, phrase, or part hereof not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord.
45-12, 7-16-2012)
CHAPTER 6
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-6A-1: Sale Of Baby Chickens And Ducklings
7-6A-2: Restrictions On Maintaining Livestock
7-6A-3: Storage Of Animal Food
7-6A-1: SALE OF BABY CHICKENS AND DUCKLINGS:
   A.   Sale As Pets Or Novelties: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell,
or offer for sale, barter, or give away, baby chicks or ducklings or other fowl
as pets or novelties.
   B.   Selling For Commercial Purposes Allowed: This section shall not be
construed to prohibit the display or sale of natural chicks, ducklings in
proper brooder facilities, by hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of
selling the same to be raised for commercial purposes.
   C.   State License Required: No person shall engage in the business of
selling baby chicks, poultry or domestic fowl within the City unless such
person has been licensed to do so by the Department of Agriculture of the
State. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6A-2: RESTRICTIONS ON MAINTAINING LIVESTOCK:
   A.   Maintenance Of Pens, Yards And Enclosures: No person shall keep or
maintain within the corporate limits of the City any pens, buildings, yards,
sheds or enclosures wherein any cattle, sheep, swine or other livestock are
collected, kept or fed for commercial purposes unless such pens, buildings,
yards, sheds or enclosures are erected, constructed and maintained as provided
in this section.
   B.   Concrete Floors: All such pens, buildings, yards, sheds or enclosures
shall be erected and maintained with floors constructed of concrete at least
four inches (4") thick with a smoothly troweled wearing surface.
   C.   Drainage; Catch Basins: All such concrete floors shall be constructed
so as to drain to a catch basin or basins connected with the sanitary sewage
system of the City, or in the event there is no such sewage system within two
hundred feet (200') from the property line, such basin or basins shall be
connected with a sewage disposal system approved by the City Manager.
   D.   Controlled Livestock Grazing:
      1.   A controlled livestock grazing contractor may temporarily keep or
maintain within the corporate limits of the City any pens, yards, sheds or
enclosures wherein any grazing livestock approved by the City are temporarily
kept for the limited and express purposes of controlled livestock grazing in
accordance with the City's controlled livestock grazing program.
      2.   All such pens, yards, sheds or enclosures used for the limited and
express purpose of controlled livestock grazing will be temporary and may not
remain in place beyond the term of grazing approved at a particular location.
Due to the temporary nature of such pens, yards, sheds, or enclosures used for
the limited and express purpose of controlled livestock grazing, concrete
floors will not be required for pens, yards, sheds or enclosures used to
shelter and keep animals participating in controlled livestock grazing.
      3.   All fences used to keep or maintain livestock used for controlled
livestock grazing within corporate limits must comply with the fencing
regulations set forth in the City's Controlled Livestock Grazing Program.
      4.   Any controlled livestock grazing contractor who wishes to keep or
maintain livestock within the corporate limits for controlled livestock grazing
must obtain a permit from the City and comply with all terms and conditions of
the City's controlled livestock grazing program. (Ord. 27-18, 8-6-2018; amd.
Ord. 62-24, 12-16-2024)
7-6A-3: STORAGE OF ANIMAL FOOD:
All food and feed within the City for feeding chickens, cows, pigs, horses, and
other animals shall be stored in rat free and ratproof containers,
compartments, or rooms unless stored in a ratproof building. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-
2008)
ARTICLE B. DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
7-6B-1: Definitions
7-6B-2: Licensing; Tags And Fees
7-6B-3: Keeping Domestic Animals On Unoccupied Residential Property Or In
Dangerous Buildings Prohibited
7-6B-4: Harboring Vicious Dog Or Cat
7-6B-5: Nuisance
7-6B-6: Female Dogs In Season
7-6B-7: Running At Large
7-6B-8: Directing Dog With Malicious Intent
7-6B-9: Use Of Dog In Illegal Activity Prohibited
7-6B-10: Impoundment, Redemption And Disposition Of Unclaimed Animals
7-6B-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation of this article:
AT LARGE: Any dog, cat or livestock, fowl or ferret found off the premises of
the owner or keeper. A dog or cat shall not be deemed at large if the dog or
cat is:
   A.   Attached to a leash of sufficient strength and appropriate length to
control the animal where such leash is held by its owner or keeper; or
   B.   Restrained within an enclosed motor vehicle or by crate or leash of
sufficient strength and appropriate length to keep the dog or cat within the
motor vehicle; or
   C.   Housed in a licensed veterinarian's animal hospital; or
   D.   Accompanied by the owner or keeper on the premises of another with such
person's consent and restrained by an adequate protective fence or by leash,
cord, chain or other similar restraint that does not allow the dog or cat to go
beyond such person's property line or to come into contact with anyone outside
such person's property line.
CAT: Both male and female animals in the family Felis catus whether neutered or
not.
DOG: Both male and female animals of the canine species whether neutered or
not, but not including a law enforcement dog.
HEALTH CARE PROVIDER: A person who is trained and licensed to give health care.
KEEPER: Any person other than the owner keeping, sheltering, having control or
custody of or harboring an animal.
KENNEL: A place or establishment where dogs or cats are kept or raised for the
purpose of breeding, boarding, racing at a licensed parimutuel track, exchanged
or offered for sale to the general public and which are kept under constant
restraint.
NEUTERED: A surgical procedure that has been performed on a dog or a cat that
renders it incapable of siring or bearing offspring.
NUISANCE: A dog or cat shall be considered a nuisance if it:
   A.   Damages, soils, defiles or defecates on private property other than the
owner's or keeper's or on public walks and recreation areas unless such waste
is immediately removed and properly disposed of by the owner or keeper.
   B.   Causes unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions.
   C.   Causes a disturbance by excessive barking or other noisemaking that can
be heard from a position in the public right-of-way.
   D.   Chases vehicles, or molests, attacks or interferes with persons or
other domestic animals off the premises of the owner or keeper.
OWNER: Any person owning a cat, dog, or other animal.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: A vicious cat or dog is deemed so when it shall have attacked
or bitten any person on more than one (1) occasion without provocation or when
an attack or bite results in serious bodily injury. (Ord. 28-17, 6-5-2017)
7-6B-2: LICENSING; TAGS AND FEES:
   A.   License Required: No person shall keep a dog or cat in the City unless
such dog or cat is licensed by the City as provided in this article. This
section shall not apply to veterinary clinics and boarding facilities.
   B.   Application For License: The owner or keeper shall make application for
a license with the City Manager. The application shall give the name, physical
address, date of birth or social security number of the owner or keeper, the
sex and description of the dog or cat, and if known, its breed and age. In the
event of a change of ownership, the license holder shall notify the City
Manager of such change. All dogs and cats shall be licensed by not later than
six (6) months of age. If an animal is older than six (6) months of age, the
dog or cat must be licensed within thirty (30) days of ownership or residing in
the City of Dubuque, whichever is first.
   C.   Dogs:
      1.   License Fee; Neutering:
         a.   The license fee per calendar year, or fraction thereof, for a dog
license shall be as established by the City Manager.
         b.   The applicant or licensee shall furnish written proof from a
licensed veterinarian that surgical procedures have been performed that render
either male or female dogs incapable of reproduction, which may result in a
reduced licensed fee.
      2.   Expiration; Renewal; Delinquent Fee: All dog licenses issued under
this subsection shall expire one (1) year from the date the license was issued
and shall become delinquent thirty (30) days after the license anniversary
date. A delinquent fee as established by the City Manager, shall be added to
the required license fee for each delinquent dog license.
   D.   Cats:
      1.   License Fee; Neutering:
         a.   The license fee per calendar year, or fraction thereof, shall be
as established by the City Manager.
         b.   The applicant or licensee shall furnish written proof from a
licensed veterinarian that surgical procedures have been performed that render
either male or female cats incapable of reproduction, which may result in a
reduced licensed fee.
      2.   Expiration; Renewal; Delinquent Fees: All cat licenses issued under
this subsection shall expire one (1) year from the date the license was
purchased and shall become delinquent thirty (30) days after the license
anniversary date. A delinquent fee as established by the City Manager shall be
added to the required license fee for each delinquent cat license.
   E.   Tags:
      1.   Tags Not Transferable: A license issued for any dog or cat shall not
be transferred to another dog or cat.
      2.   Tags Attached To Collar Or Harness: The owner or keeper of a dog or
cat, upon procurement of the license, shall securely attach the license tag to
a collar or harness and this collar or harness, with the tag attached, shall at
all times be kept on the dog or cat. Any dog or cat found at large without a
collar or harness with license tag attached shall be deemed unlicensed and
shall be impounded.
   F.   Fee For Duplicate License: The fee for a duplicate license for either a
dog or cat shall be as established by the City Manager.
   G.   Consent Implied From Application And Receipt: The application for and
the receipt of a license as required in this section shall include an implied
consent by the owner or keeper to permit an inspection of both real and
personal property under the owner's or keeper's control for the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this article relating to the harborage of
vicious animals or to the control of rabies outbreak or relating to the
provisions of law relative to the prohibition of cruelty to animals. (Ord. 28-
17, 6-5-2017)
7-6B-3: KEEPING DOMESTIC ANIMALS ON UNOCCUPIED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY OR IN
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS PROHIBITED:
The owner or keeper of a dog or cat shall not keep or allow the dog or cat to
be kept on unoccupied property or in any building that meets the definition of
a dangerous building as set forth in section
14-3-2 of this Code. For purposes of this provision, "unoccupied property"
shall include but is not limited to property that is not the primary residence
of the owner or keeper or any other occupant. (Ord. 28-17, 6-5-2017)
7-6B-4: HARBORING VICIOUS DOG OR CAT:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to harbor or keep a vicious dog
or cat within the City. The City may abate violations of this section with
penalties including, but not limited to, euthanization of the animal. (Ord. 28-
17, 6-5-2017)
7-6B-5: NUISANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to permit a dog or cat to commit a
nuisance. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6B-6: FEMALE DOGS IN SEASON:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to allow a female dog in season to
run at large or to so confine such dog as to attract male dogs to the area and
by their presence cause a nuisance. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6B-7: RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to permit or allow a dog, cat,
ferret, livestock or fowl to run at large. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6B-8: DIRECTING DOG WITH MALICIOUS INTENT:
No person shall direct, encourage, cause, allow or otherwise aid or assist any
dog to threaten, charge at, intimidate, bite, harass, menace or attack any
person. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6B-9: USE OF DOG IN ILLEGAL ACTIVITY PROHIBITED:
No person shall keep, maintain, control or retain custody of any dog in
conjunction with, or for the purpose, whether in whole or in part, of aiding,
abetting or conducting illegal activity or committing any crime. (Ord. 76-08,
11-3-2008)
7-6B-10: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED ANIMALS:
   A.   Contract For Pound Or Shelter: The City Manager is hereby authorized to
contract from year to year with any pound or animal shelter as defined by
section 162.2 of the Code of Iowa for carrying out the provisions of this
article including the collection, protection and disposition of dogs, cats and
other animals and the collection of fees for licensing and care of seized and
impounded dogs and cats.
   B.   Impoundment: Any unlicensed dog or cat except kennel dogs or cats and
any licensed dog or cat found at large shall be subject to seizure and
impoundment in a place provided by the City.
   C.   Notice To Owners Of Licensed Dogs Or Cats: Whenever any licensed dog or
cat has been seized or impounded pursuant to this article, notice of such
action shall be given as provided in this article.
   D.   Redemption:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided, the possession of any licensed dog or
cat seized or impounded pursuant to this article may be obtained by the owner
or keeper by paying an impoundment fee as established by the City Manager,
together with the separate daily fee for keeping such dog or cat each day or
fraction thereof during the time that such dog or cat is impounded. Upon the
second subsequent impoundment of the same animal within three hundred sixty
five (365) days, an impoundment fee as established by the City Manager shall be
assessed together with the separate daily fee for keeping such dog or cat each
day or fraction thereof during the time which said dog or cat is impounded.
      2.   Upon proper identification the owner may redeem an unlicensed dog or
cat seized or impounded pursuant to this article after licensing the animal or
agreeing to purchase a license within ten (10) working days. Failure to do so
shall result in an additional fee as established by the City Manager, added to
the license fee.
   E.   Disposition Of Unredeemed Dogs:
      1.   Licensed Dog: If the owner or keeper of a licensed dog impounded
pursuant to this article does not redeem such animal within seven (7) days
after the mailing of the notice provided for in this article, the license shall
automatically be revoked and the animal disposed of as directed by the City
Manager.
      2.   Unlicensed Dog: Any unlicensed dog not redeemed by the owner within
three (3) days after it has been seized or impounded shall be disposed of as
directed by the City Manager.
   F.   Disposition Of Unredeemed Cats:
      1.   Licensed Cat: If the owner or keeper of a licensed cat impounded
pursuant to this article does not redeem such animal within five (5) days after
the mailing of the notice provided for in this article, the license shall
automatically be revoked and the animal disposed of as directed by the City
Manager.
      2.   Unlicensed Cat: Any unlicensed cat not redeemed by the owner within
three (3) days after it has been seized or impounded shall be disposed of as
directed by the City Manager. (Ord. 28-17, 6-5-2017)
ARTICLE C. RABIES CONTROL
SECTION:
7-6C-1: Vaccination Required
7-6C-2: Confinement Authorized
7-6C-3: Reporting Rabies; Notice To City Manager
7-6C-4: Notification To Police Or City Manager Of Dead Animals
7-6C-5: Punishment For Harboring Known Rabid Dog, Cat Or Other Domestic Animal
7-6C-6: Prohibited Actions After Mayor's Proclamation Of Emergency
7-6C-1: VACCINATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Dogs And Cats; Schedule: It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper
of any domesticated species of dog or cat to keep or maintain such animal
unless the dog or cat shall be vaccinated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian with a vaccine approved by the Iowa Department of Agriculture and
administered in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Class Of Animal Age At Primary Vaccination Booster1
Dogs            6 months                   1 year later, triennially thereafter
Cats            6 months                   Annually or 1 year later,
                                           triennially thereafter
 
   Note:
1.   Approved 3 year vaccine may be substituted.
   B.   Ferrets; Schedule: It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any
ferret to keep or maintain such animal unless the ferret shall be vaccinated
against rabies by a licensed veterinarian with a vaccine licensed for the use
in ferrets and administered in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Class Of Animal Age At Primary Vaccination Booster
Ferret          6 months                   Annually
 
   C.   Inactivated Nervous Tissue: Inactivated nervous tissue vaccine may only
be used in accordance with the rules of the Iowa State Department of
Agriculture.
   D.   Certificate Required: A copy of the official rabies vaccination
certificate approved by the Iowa State Department of Agriculture shall be a
condition precedent to the issuance of any license authorized by this article.
   E.   Veterinarian Furnish Copies: Each veterinarian within the City limits
shall forward to the City Manager by no later than the tenth of each month a
copy of each official rabies vaccination certificate, with the owner's or
keeper's address, issued by the veterinarian during the preceding month. (Ord.
28-17, 6-5-2017)
7-6C-2: CONFINEMENT AUTHORIZED:
   A.   Animal Suspected Of Having Rabies: The owner or keeper of any dog or
cat or other animal which has contracted rabies, or which has been subject to
rabies, or which has bitten or caused skin abrasion to any person shall produce
and surrender up such dog, cat or other animal to be held in confinement in a
licensed veterinarian's animal hospital under the supervision of a licensed
veterinarian and in quarantine for observation for a period of ten (10) days
from the date the bite occurred at the expense of the owner or keeper of the
animal.
   B.   Quarantine Of Animal Bitten By Rabid Animal: Any animal bitten or
attacked by any known rabid animal shall be quarantined under direction of the
Health Officer by being confined and in quarantine as provided above for a
minimum of ninety (90) days.
   C.   Application For Home Quarantine; Conditions: The owner or keeper of any
dog or cat or other animal which has bitten a person may apply to the City
Manager to have the animal released for the purpose of home quarantine. Home
quarantine may be permitted at the City Manager's sole discretion. If the City
Manager allows home confinement, all of the following conditions must be met,
including but not limited to:
      1.   The animal must have a current rabies vaccination. The vaccination
certification must bear the description of the animal, the type of vaccine
used, the expiration of the vaccination, and the signature of the veterinarian
administering the vaccination.
      2.   The animal must have a current City license, if the animal is six
(6) months of age or older.
      3.   The animal must not have been running at large at the time of the
bite.
      4.   The animal has not previously bitten any person.
      5.   Prior to approval of home quarantine, the owner or keeper must have
the animal examined by a veterinarian, licensed in the State of Iowa, who shall
certify that the animal appears to be free of rabies or any other zoonosis.
Such examination and certification must be repeated on the tenth day.
      6.   The owner or keeper must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City
Manager that the owner or keeper has the proper facilities and the ability to
adequately and properly confine the animal to the owner or keeper's home or
property during the quarantine period.
      7.   The owner or keeper must agree to immediately notify the City
Manager of any changes in the animal's health or disposition, to allow
representatives of the City Manager to enter upon the property and to examine
the animal at any time and to immediately take the animal to a licensed
veterinarian for examination at any time when directed by the City Manager.
      8.   The owner or keeper must agree to promptly pay all costs of
veterinarian examinations during the quarantine period.
      9.   The owner or keeper must further agree to immediately surrender the
animal at any time the City Manager determines that the home quarantine should
be terminated, or at any time that any provisions or conditions of home
quarantine are violated, in which event the animal shall be put in the custody
of a licensed veterinarian of the State of Iowa in the City of Dubuque for the
remainder of the quarantine period.
      10.   If the City Manager determines at any time that home confinement is
not appropriate for the animal, quarantine at a veterinary hospital shall be
ordered.
      11.   The person bitten, or, if a minor, the person's parent or guardian,
must sign an acknowledgment indicating that the person has been advised of the
risks of rabies, that if the animal disappears during home quarantine, the
person may have to undergo postexposure rabies prophylaxis, and that the person
does not object to home quarantine. The acknowledgment shall also relieve the
City of Dubuque, its agents, officers, and employees from any liability if the
animal disappears during home quarantine.
      12.   The owner or keeper shall also execute an indemnity agreement in
favor of the City of Dubuque, which shall provide that the owner or keeper
shall save harmless, defend and indemnify the City of Dubuque and its officers,
agents and employees from any or all claims of any kind arising out of the home
quarantine.
      13.   The owner or keeper shall agree in writing that if the animal
disappears during the home quarantine, the owner or keeper shall indemnify the
person bitten for any and all medical expenses incurred as a result of the
disappearance of the animal. Acceptance of any such payments by the person
bitten shall not in any way release the owner or keeper from any other
liability the owner may have to the person bitten by reason of the animal bite.
It shall be the sole responsibility of the person bitten, and not the
responsibility of the City, to enforce such agreement. This subsection shall
not apply if the person bitten is the owner or keeper of the animal or any
person residing with the owner or keeper.
   D.   Wild Animals: If an undomesticated or wild animal such as a skunk, bat,
fox, raccoon or other carnivore bites a person, whether or not the animal's
owner or keeper is known, the animal shall be humanely destroyed and examined
for rabies immediately. (Ord. 28-17, 6-5-2017)
7-6C-3: REPORTING RABIES; NOTICE TO CITY MANAGER:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the owner or keeper of any cat, dog or other
domesticated animal suspected of being rabid that has attacked, bitten or
caused any skin abrasion upon any person to report such incident to the City
Manager.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the victim who has been attacked, bitten or
caused a skin abrasion by any cat, dog or other domesticated animal suspected
of being rabid to report such incident to the City Manager.
   C.   It shall be the duty of any health care provider or veterinarian
practice immediately to transmit information to the City Manager that may come
to such health care provider or veterinarian practice through such health care
provider's or veterinarian practice's professional capacity with reference to
any person having been attacked, bitten or having skin abrasions by any dog,
cat or other domestic animal. (Ord. 28-17, 6-5-2017)
7-6C-4: NOTIFICATION TO POLICE OR CITY MANAGER OF DEAD ANIMALS:
Any person finding a dead dog or cat shall at once notify the Police Department
or the City Manager. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6C-5: PUNISHMENT FOR HARBORING KNOWN RABID DOG, CAT OR OTHER DOMESTIC ANIMAL:
Any person or keeper who shall knowingly harbor or keep any dog, cat or other
animal infected with rabies, or with knowledge that their animal was bitten by
a rabid animal, fails to report such incident to the City Manager or police,
shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6C-6: PROHIBITED ACTIONS AFTER MAYOR'S PROCLAMATION OF EMERGENCY:
When the Mayor, pursuant to resolution of the City shall declare an emergency
due to rabies:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog, cat or other domestic
animal to permit such animal to be at large. Any dog, cat or domesticated
animal found to be at large shall be deemed to be so with the permission or at
the sufferance of its owner or keeper.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person except the owner or keeper of a
dog, cat or other domestic animal, or the owner's or keeper's agent to open any
door or gate of any private premises for the purpose or result of setting such
animal at large.
   C.   Any licensed or unlicensed dog, cat or other domestic animal found at
large shall be impounded by the City Manager or Police Department. (Ord. 76-08,
11-3-2008)
ARTICLE D. DANGEROUS ANIMALS
SECTION:
7-6D-1: Definitions
7-6D-2: Dogs, Cats Exempted
7-6D-3: Keeping Of Dangerous Animals Restricted
7-6D-4: Exceptions To Keeping And Licensing Restrictions
7-6D-5: Regulations For Keeping
7-6D-6: General Prohibition And Duty
7-6D-7: Seizure, Impoundment And Disposition Of Dangerous Animals
7-6D-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a different
intention, the following terms shall, for the purpose of this article, have the
meanings in this section:
CITY: The City of Dubuque.
CITY MANAGER, CHIEF OF POLICE, AND CITY CLERK: Those employees of the City of
Dubuque duly appointed and holding those positions.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: A. Any animal which is not naturally tame or gentle, and
which is of a wild nature or disposition, and which is capable of killing,
inflicting serious injury upon, or causing disease among, human beings or
domestic animals and having known tendencies as a species to do so;
   B.   Any animal(s) declared to be dangerous by the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee; or
   C.   The following animals which shall be deemed to be dangerous animals per
se:
      1.   Lions, tigers, jaguars, leopards, cougars, lynx and bobcats;
      2.   Wolves, coyotes and foxes;
      3.   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, skunks and mink;
      4.   Raccoons;
      5.   Bears;
      6.   All apes, baboons, macaques, monkeys and chimpanzees;
      7.   Alligators and crocodiles;
      8.   Scorpions;
      9.   Snakes that are:
         a.   Any member of the family atractaspidae, including but not limited
to mole vipers and burrowing asps.
         b.   Any member of the family elapidae, voperidae, crotalidae,
atractaspidae, or hydrophidae which are venomous, including but not limited to
cobras, mambas, coral snakes, kraits, adders, vipers, rattlesnakes,
copperheads, pit vipers, keelbacks, cottonmouths, and sea snakes.
         c.   Any member of the superfamily henophidia, which are limited to
reticulated pythons, anacondas, and African rock pythons;
      10.   Reptiles that are venomous;
      11.   Gila monsters;
      12.   Opossums; and
      13.   Any crossbreed of such animals which have similar characteristics
of the animals specified above. (Ord. 28-17, 6-5-2017)
7-6D-2: DOGS, CATS EXEMPTED:
The provisions of this article shall not apply to domestic dogs or cats. (Ord.
76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6D-3: KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS RESTRICTED:
No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor for any purpose within the City a
dangerous animal except as provided in sections
7-6D-4,
7-6D-5, and
7-6D-7 of this article. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6D-4: EXCEPTIONS TO KEEPING AND LICENSING RESTRICTIONS:
The prohibition contained in section
7-6D-3 of this article and the provisions of section
7-6D-5 of this article shall not apply to the keeping of dangerous animals in
the following circumstances:
   A.   The keeping of dangerous animals in a public zoo, bona fide educational
or medical institution, humane society, or museum where they are kept as live
specimens for the public to view, or for the purpose of instruction, research
or study.
   B.   The keeping of dangerous animals for exhibition to the public by a bona
fide traveling circus, carnival, exhibit or show licensed to perform in the
City.
   C.   The keeping of dangerous animals in a bona fide, licensed veterinary
hospital for treatment.
   D.   The keeping of dangerous animals by a wildlife rescue organization,
with appropriate permit from the Iowa Conservation Commission or the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources.
   E.   Any dangerous animals under the jurisdiction of and in the possession
of the Iowa Conservation Commission, pursuant to chapter 717F of the Iowa Code.
   F.   A bona fide commercial pet shop licensed and inspected by the Iowa
Department of Agriculture. Any such pet shop shall post in a conspicuous place,
the following notice:
            NOTICE
      Section
7-6D-3 of the City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances prohibits the keeping,
sheltering or harboring for any purpose within the City of Dubuque, any
dangerous animal, as defined in Section
7-6D-1. Dangerous animal includes, but is not limited to, the following:
         1. Lions, tigers, jaguars, leopards, cougars, lynx and bobcats;
         2. Wolves, coyotes and foxes;
         3. Badgers, wolverines, weasels, skunks and mink;
         4. Raccoons;
         5. Bears;
         6. All apes, baboons, macaques, monkeys and chimpanzees;
         7. Alligators and crocodiles;
         8. Scorpions;
         9. Snakes that are:
              a. Any member of the family atractaspidae, including but not
limited to mole vipers and burrowing asps.
               b. Any member of the family elapidae, voperidae, crotalidae,
atractaspidae, or hydrophidae which are venomous, including but not limited to
cobras, mambas, coral snakes, kraits, adders, vipers, rattlesnakes,
copperheads, pit vipers, keelbacks, cottonmouths, and sea snakes.
               c. Any member of the superfamily henophidia, which are limited
to reticulated pythons, anacondas, and African rock pythons.
         10. Reptiles that are venomous;
         11. Gila monsters;
         12. Opossums; and
         13. Any crossbreed of such animals which have similar characteristics
of the animals specified above.
(Ord. 37-17, 8-7-2017)
7-6D-5: REGULATIONS FOR KEEPING:
   A.   Keeping Animal Confined: Any person keeping, sheltering or harboring a
dangerous animal shall at all times keep such animal securely confined within a
cage or other enclosure approved by the Health Services Officer.
   B.   Prohibited From Public Property: No person keeping, sheltering or
harboring a dangerous animal shall permit or allow such animal to enter upon or
traverse any public property, park property, public right-of-way, or any
business establishment licensed by the City, or the property of another except
when such animal is being transported while caged or confined.
   C.   Report Animal Missing: It shall be the duty of the animal keeper,
shelterer or harborer to report to the City Manager/Police Department when a
dangerous animal is found missing.
   D.   Keeping Animals Which Attack Or Bite Prohibited: No person shall keep,
shelter or harbor a dangerous animal which has demonstrated without provocation
to attack or bite. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6D-6: GENERAL PROHIBITION AND DUTY:
No person shall aid or cause any dangerous animal, whether owned by such person
or not, to escape confinement or impoundment, whether such confinement or
impoundment be upon such person's property or that of another by opening any
gate, door or window or making any opening of any fence, enclosure or structure
or by unleashing such animal. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6D-7: SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Authority To Destroy: In the event that a dangerous animal is found at
large upon public property, park property, public right(s)-of-way, or the
property of someone other than its keeper, harborer or shelterer thereby
creating a hazard to person or property, such animal may, in the discretion of
the City Manager, be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured. The City
shall be under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture of dangerous
animal found at large, nor shall it have a duty to notify the keeper, harborer,
or shelterer of such animal prior to its destruction.
   B.   Procedure Upon Complaint; Order Removal Of Animal: Upon the complaint
of any individual that a person is keeping, sheltering, or harboring a
dangerous animal on premises in the City in violation of sections
7-6D-3,
7-6D-5 and
7-6D-6 of this article or that a person is keeping, sheltering or harboring a
dangerous animal which has demonstrated a propensity to attack or bite without
provocation, the City Manager shall order the person named in the complaint to
safely remove such animal from the City, permanently place the animal with an
organization or group allowed under section
7-6D-4 of this article to possess dangerous animals, or destroy the animal,
within three (3) days of the receipt of such order. Such order shall be
contained in a notice to remove the dangerous animal, which notice shall be in
writing and delivered personally or by certified mail to the person keeping,
sheltering or harboring the dangerous animal. Such order and notice to remove
the dangerous animal shall not be required where the Health Services Officer
determines that such dangerous animal has previously caused serious physical
harm or death to any person in which case the Health Services Officer shall
cause the animal to be immediately seized and impounded or killed if seizure
and impoundment are not possible without risk of serious physical harm or death
to any person.
   C.   Appeal; Notice; Hearing: The order to remove a dangerous animal issued
by the City Manager may be appealed to the City Council. To appeal such order,
written notice of appeal stating the grounds for the appeal must be filed with
the City Clerk within three (3) days after receipt of the order and notice to
remove the dangerous animal. Failure to file such written notice of appeal
shall constitute a waiver of the right to appeal the order of the Health
Services Officer.
      1.   The hearing on the appeal shall be within fourteen (14) days of the
filing of the notice of appeal with the City Clerk. The hearing may be
continued for good cause.
      2.   After such hearing, the City Council may affirm or reverse the order
of the City Manager. Such determination shall be contained in a written
decision and shall be filed with the City Clerk within three (3) days after the
hearing, or any continued session thereof.
      3.   If the City Council affirms the action of the City Manager, the City
Council shall order in its written decision that the person sheltering,
harboring, or keeping such dangerous animal, remove such animal from the City,
permanently place such animal with an organization or group allowed under
section
7-6D-4 of this article to possess dangerous animals, or destroy it. The
decision and order shall immediately be served upon the person against whom
rendered in the same manner as the notice of removal.
   D.   Seizure And Impoundment: If the order of the City Manager is not
appealed and is not complied with within three (3) days of its issuance, the
City Manager is authorized to seize and impound such dangerous animal. If the
written decision of the City Council is not complied with within three (3) days
of this issuance, the City Manager is authorized to seize and impound such
dangerous animal. An animal so seized shall be impounded for a period of seven
(7) days.
   E.   Disposition Of Animal: If at the end of the impoundment period, the
person against whom the decision and order of the City Manager or City Council
was issued has not petitioned the Dubuque County District Court for review of
said order, the City Manager shall cause the animal to be disposed of by sale,
permanently place such animal to be disposed of by sale, permanently place such
animal with an organization or group allowed under section
7-6D-4 of this article to possess dangerous animals, or destroy such animal in
a humane manner. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
ARTICLE E. POTENTIALLY VICIOUS DOGS
SECTION:
7-6E-1: Definition
7-6E-2: Procedure For Declaration Of Potentially Vicious Dog
7-6E-3: Notification Of Status Of Potentially Vicious Dog
7-6E-4: Exceptions To Classification
7-6E-5: Disposition Of Potentially Vicious Dog
7-6E-1: DEFINITION:
A "potentially vicious dog" is a dog that:
   A.   When unprovoked, on two (2) separate occasions, has engaged in any
behavior that has required a defensive action by any person to prevent bodily
injury when the person and dog were off of the property of the owner or keeper
of the dog;
   B.   When unprovoked, has attacked or bitten a person;
   C.   When unprovoked, has inflicted a serious injury or caused the death of
a domestic animal, either on public or private property other than the property
of the owner or keeper; or
   D.   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person or domestic animal upon
the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property other than the
property of the owner or keeper, in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of
attack. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6E-2: PROCEDURE FOR DECLARATION OF POTENTIALLY VICIOUS DOG:
   A.   Basis For Declaration: The City Manager may find and declare an animal
potentially vicious based upon the following:
      1.   The written complaint of a citizen that the animal has acted in a
manner set forth in section
7-6E-1 of this article;
      2.   Dog bite reports filed with the Health Services Department;
      3.   Actions of the dog witnessed by any animal control officer or law
enforcement officer; or
      4.   Other substantial evidence.
   B.   Service Of Declaration Upon Owner: The declaration of a potentially
vicious dog shall be in writing and shall be served on the owner or keeper in
one (1) of the following methods: personally, by certified mail to the owner at
the owner's or keeper's last known address, or if the owner or keeper cannot be
served personally or by mail, by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the County.
   C.   Contents Of Declaration: The declaration shall state:
      1.   The description of the animal;
      2.   The name and address of the owner or keeper of the animal, if known;
      3.   The whereabouts of the animal, if not in the custody of the owner or
keeper;
      4.   The facts upon which the declaration of potentially vicious dog is
based;
      5.   The owner's or keeper's right to a hearing if the person objects to
the declaration;
      6.   The restrictions placed upon the animal as a result of the
declaration of potentially vicious dog; and
      7.   The penalties for a violation of such restrictions.
      8.   If the City Manager so determines, that the owner or keeper be
required to have microchip identification implanted in the dog.
   D.   Objections Of Owner: The owner or keeper may object to the declaration
of potentially vicious dog by requesting a hearing before the City Manager by
submitting a written request to the City Manager within ten (10) days of the
date of mailing of the declaration, or within ten (10) days of the publication
of the declaration.
      1.   If the City Manager finds that there is insufficient evidence to
support the declaration, it shall be rescinded, and the restrictions imposed
thereby annulled.
      2.   If the City Manager finds sufficient evidence to support the
declaration, the City Manager shall provide the owner with written notice of
such determination within five (5) working days after the hearing.
      3.   Prior to and pending the outcome of the hearing, the owner or keeper
of a dog that has been declared potentially vicious must comply with all
conditions and restrictions set forth by the City Manager.
      4.   If it is determined by the animal control officer or law enforcement
officer that probable cause exists to believe the dog in question poses an
immediate threat to public safety, then the animal control officer or law
enforcement officer may seize and impound the dog pending the hearing to be
held pursuant to this article. The owner or keeper of the dog shall be liable
to the City or County where the dog is impounded for the costs and expenses of
keeping the dog if the dog is later determined to be potentially vicious. When
a dog has been impounded and it is not contrary to public safety, the animal
control officer shall permit the animal to be confined at the owner's expense
in a Health Services Department approved kennel or veterinary facility. (Ord.
28-17, 6-5-2017)
7-6E-3: NOTIFICATION OF STATUS OF POTENTIALLY VICIOUS DOG:
   A.   The owner or keeper shall immediately notify the Health Services
Department when a dog which has been classified as potentially vicious:
      1.   Is loose or unconfined;
      2.   Has bitten a human being or attacked another animal;
      3.   Is sold or given away, or dies; or
      4.   Is moved to another address.
   B.   Prior to a potentially vicious dog being sold or given away, the owner
or keeper shall provide the name, address and telephone number of the new owner
or keeper to the Health Services Department. The new owner or keeper shall
comply with all the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6E-4: EXCEPTIONS TO CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   No dog may be declared potentially vicious if:
      1.   Any injury or damage was sustained by a person who, at the time of
the injury or damage was sustained, was committing a wilful trespass or other
tort upon premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the dog, or was teasing,
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or was committing or attempting to
commit a crime;
      2.   The dog was protecting or defending a person within the immediate
vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault; or
      3.   The injury or damage was sustained by a person or a domestic animal,
which at the time of the injury or damage was sustained, was teasing,
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog.
   B.   No dog may be declared potentially vicious if the injury or damage to a
domestic animal was sustained while the dog was working as a hunting dog,
herding dog or predator control dog on the property of, or under the control
of, its owner or keeper, and the damage or injury was to a species or type of
domestic animal appropriate to the work of the dog. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
7-6E-5: DISPOSITION OF POTENTIALLY VICIOUS DOG:
   A.   License And Vaccination; Fee: A potentially vicious dog shall be
properly licensed and vaccinated. The potentially vicious designation shall be
included in the registration records of the dog. The City may charge a
potentially vicious dog fee in addition to the regular licensing fee to provide
for the increased costs of maintaining the records of the dog.
   B.   Confinement; Restraint: A potentially vicious dog, while on the owner's
or keeper's property, shall at all times be kept indoors or in a securely
fenced yard from which the dog cannot escape and into which children cannot
trespass. A potentially vicious animal may be off the owner's or keeper's
premises only if restrained by a substantial leash, of appropriate length, and
if the dog is under the control of a responsible adult and is humanely muzzled.
   C.   Notice Of Change Of Ownership And Location: If a potentially vicious
dog dies, or is sold, transferred or permanently removed from the City, the
owner or keeper of the dog shall notify the Health Services Department of the
changed condition and new location of the dog in writing within two (2) working
days. (Ord. 76-08, 11-3-2008)
ARTICLE F. VICIOUS DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
7-6F-1: Definition
7-6F-2: Procedure For Declaration Of Vicious Animal
7-6F-3: Notification Of Status Of Vicious Animal
7-6F-4: Exceptions To Classification
7-6F-5: Disposition Of Vicious Animal
7-6F-1: DEFINITION:
A "vicious animal" is deemed so when it has attacked or bitten any person on
more than one (1) occasion without provocation or when an attack or bite
results in serious bodily injury. (Ord. 28-17, 6-5-2017)
7-6F-2: PROCEDURE FOR DECLARATION OF VICIOUS ANIMAL:
   A.   Basis For Declaration: The City Manager may find and declare an animal
vicious based upon the following:
      1.   When the animal has attacked or bitten any person on more than one
(1) occasion without provocation or when an attack or bite results in serious
bodily injury.
   B.   Service Of Declaration Upon Owner: The declaration of a vicious animal
shall be in writing and shall be served on the owner or keeper in one (1) of
the following methods: personally, by certified mail to the owner at the
owner's or keeper's last known address, or if the owner or keeper cannot be
served personally or by mail, by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the County.
   C.   Contents Of Declaration: The declaration shall state:
      1.   The description of the animal;
      2.   The name and address of the owner or keeper of the animal, if known;
      3.   The facts upon which the declaration of vicious animal is based;
      4.   The restrictions placed upon the animal as a result of the
declaration of vicious animal;
      5.   The penalties for a violation of such restrictions;
      6.   If the City Manager so determines, that the owner or keeper be
required to have microchip identification implanted in the animal; and
      7.   The owner or keeper must keep the vicious animal within the City and
under the owner or keeper's ownership until resolution of the matter through
City administration or the judicial system.
   D.   Seizure And Impoundment: If it is determined by the animal control
officer or law enforcement officer that probable cause exists to believe the
animal in question poses an immediate threat to public safety, then the animal
control officer or law enforcement officer may seize and impound the animal
pending the resolution pursuant to this article. The owner or keeper of the
animal shall be liable to the City or County where the animal is impounded for
the costs and expenses of keeping the animal if the dog is determined to be
vicious. (Ord. 28-17, 6-5-2017)
7-6F-3: NOTIFICATION OF STATUS OF VICIOUS ANIMAL:
   A.   The owner or keeper shall immediately notify the City Manager when an
animal which has been classified as vicious:
      1.   Is loose or unconfined;
      2.   Has bitten a human being or attacked another animal; or
      3.   Dies.
   B.   A vicious animal may not be sold, given away, or moved to another
location prior to resolution of the matter through City administration or the
judicial system. (Ord. 28-17, 6-5-2017)
7-6F-4: EXCEPTIONS TO CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   No animal may be declared vicious if:
      1.   Any injury or damage was sustained by a person who, at the time of
the injury or damage was sustained, was committing a wilful trespass or other
tort upon premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal, or was
teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal, or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime;
      2.   The animal was protecting or defending a person within the immediate
vicinity of the animal from an unjustified attack or assault; or
      3.   The injury or damage was sustained by a person or a domestic animal,
which at the time of the injury or damage was sustained, was teasing,
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal.
   B.   No animal may be declared vicious if the injury or damage to a domestic
animal was sustained while the animal was working as a hunting dog, herding dog
or predator control dog on the property of, or under the control of, its owner
or keeper, and the damage or injury was to a species or type of domestic animal
appropriate to the work of the dog. (Ord. 28-17, 6-5-2017)
7-6F-5: DISPOSITION OF VICIOUS ANIMAL:
   A.   License And Vaccination; Fee: A vicious animal shall be properly
licensed and vaccinated. The vicious designation shall be included in the
registration records of the animal. The City may charge a vicious animal fee in
addition to the regular licensing fee to provide for the increased costs of
maintaining the records of the animal.
   B.   Confinement; Restraint: A vicious animal, while on the owner's or
keeper's property, shall at all times be kept indoors or in a securely fenced
yard from which the animal cannot escape and into which people cannot trespass.
A vicious animal may be off the owner's or keeper's premises only if restrained
by a substantial leash, of appropriate length, and if the animal is under the
control of a responsible adult and is humanely muzzled.
   C.   Notice Of Death: If a vicious animal dies, the owner or keeper of the
animal shall notify the City Manager of the death of the animal in writing
within two (2) working days. (Ord. 28-17, 6-5-2017)
ARTICLE G. BEARS
SECTION:
7-6G-1: Definitions
7-6G-2: Prohibitions
7-6G-3: Removal Of Food Sources Upon Request
7-6G-4: Violation
7-6G-5: Exceptions
7-6G-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a different
intention, the following terms shall, for the purpose of this article, have the
meanings in this section:
ATTRACTANT: Any substance which does or could reasonably be expected to attract
bears, including, but not limited to, food products, pet food, feed, garbage,
compost, food scraps, grain, or salt.
BEAR: Any member the family Ursidae, typically characterized as large, heavy
mammals having shaggy hair, stocky legs, long snouts, rounded ears, plantigrade
paws, and short tails
FEED: The act of providing food or food waste, including but not limited to
leaving food, trash, or other attractants accessible to bears.
FOOD: Any attractant or food material attractive to bears, such as human,
livestock, and pet foods; garbage and refuse; livestock carrion; other edibles
and/or garbage which is allowed to accumulate, or the residue thereof.
HARASS: Any behavior that disturbs or disrupts the natural activities of a
bear, including but not limited to approaching, following, cornering, crowding,
taunting, chasing, or interfering with the bear's movement, behavior, or
environment in a manner that causes or is likely to cause the bear distress,
behavior change, or poses a risk to human safety.
WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES: Organizations or agencies responsible for
managing and conserving fish, wildlife, and their habitats. (Ord. 15-25, 5-5-
2025)
7-6G-2: PROHIBITIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Feed any bear for any purpose whatsoever;
   B.   Negligently or otherwise make any food of any kind available to bears;
   C.   Harass any bear, including, but not limited to, approaching any bear by
foot, vehicle, or drone, for any purpose, including photography; or
   D.   Disregard any law enforcement commands, orders, signs, or barriers
designed to protect bears and the public. (Ord. 15-25, 5-5-2025)
7-6G-3: REMOVAL OF FOOD SOURCES UPON REQUEST:
   A.   If a bear-related issue is reported or observed in the vicinity of a
property and authorities determine that an attractant or food is contributing
to the presence of the bear, the owner or occupant of the property shall be
immediately required to remove such attractant or food upon request.
   B.   Once the removal is required, the attractant or food must be eliminated
and not made available to the bear for a period of no less than ten (10) days.
   C.   This period of removal is mandatory, regardless of the presence or
absence of the bear, to minimize the risk of further habituation and potential
conflict.
   D.   Failure to comply with this section may result in enforcement actions,
including fines or other penalties as provided in Section
7-6G-4. (Ord. 15-25, 5-5-2025)
7-6G-4: VIOLATION:
   A.   A violation by any person of this article is punishable by issuance of
a municipal infraction pursuant to §
1-4-2. Each instance of noncompliance with this article is a separate offense.
   B.   In addition to monetary penalties, the court may order alternative
relief sought by the city and restitution for damage caused to wildlife or
property as a result of the violation. (Ord. 15-25, 5-5-2025)
7-6G-5: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Any actions taken by wildlife management authorities, law enforcement
officers, or other professionals authorized to handle bears in accordance with
public safety laws and regulations.
   B.   Regularly scheduled City of Dubuque refuse collection, unless ordered
otherwise by law enforcement. (Ord. 15-25, 5-5-2025)
CHAPTER 7
BICYCLES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Intent And Purpose
7-7-2 – 7-7-4: Reserved
7-7-5: Definitions
7-7-6: Equipment
7-7-7: Required Method Of Riding A Bicycle
7-7-8: Clinging To Vehicles
7-7-9: Following Fire Apparatus
7-7-10: Bicycle Parking
7-7-11: Bicycle To Be Driven To The Right
7-7-12: Bicycle Turn Signals
7-7-13: Left Turns By Bicycles
7-7-14: Passing On Right
7-7-15: Passing Within Lane Prohibited
7-7-16: Bicycle Not To Pass In Or Between Lanes
7-7-17: Riding Abreast
7-7-18: Bicycle In Crosswalk
7-7-19: Abandoned, Unlicensed, And Unattended Bicycles
7-7-20: Reckless Operator Of A Bicycle
7-7-21 – 7-7-29: Reserved
7-7-30: Registration Required
7-7-31: Registration Fees
7-7-32: Bicycle Records
7-7-33: Registration Sticker Or Decal
7-7-34: Replacement Of Registration Sticker Or Decal
7-7-35: Altering, Counterfeiting Of Registration Sticker Or Decal Prohibited
7-7-36: Rental Agencies
7-7-37: Bicycle Dealers And Repair Shops
7-7-38: Violation
7-7-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The city finds and declares that the regulation of the use of bicycles and the
licensing of bicycles is in the public interest for the following reasons:
   A.   To provide for the registration of all bicycles owned by residents;
   B.   To facilitate the identification and location of bicycles reported
stolen or missing;
   C.   To assist the police department in its efforts to prevent the theft of
bicycles;
   D.   To establish safety equipment requirements for the operators of
bicycles; and
   E.   To establish regulations governing the operation of bicycles on
streets, bike lanes, and sidewalks of the city. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-2 – 7-7-4: RESERVED:
(Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-5: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following
definitions:
BICYCLE: A device as defined in section
9-1-321.1 of this code.
BICYCLE PATH: A separate path that has been designated for use by bicycles by a
traffic control device or other sign and that is separated from the street for
other vehicular traffic by open space or a barrier.
BICYCLIST: A person operating or in actual physical control of a bicycle,
including a person on foot walking a bicycle.
FRAME NUMBER: A unique identifying number permanently stamped or cast on the
frame of a bicycle. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-6: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Each bicycle, when in use on the streets of the city at any time from
sunset to sunrise, and at such other times when conditions such as fog, snow,
sleet, or rain provide insufficient lighting to render clearly discernible
persons and vehicles at a distance of five hundred feet (500') ahead, shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white light visible from at
least three hundred feet (300') to the front and with a lamp on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of three hundred feet (300') to
the rear; except that a red reflector of a type approved by the United States
consumer products safety commission may be used in lieu of a rear light. Other
lamps are permissible if no red light is directed towards the front, nor white
light to the rear.
   B.   The use of sirens or whistles on a bicycle is prohibited.
   C.   No person shall drive a bicycle unless it is equipped with a functional
brake. Unicycles are exempt from the brake requirement.
   D.   A person propelling a bicycle on the streets of the city shall not ride
other than upon or astride a permanent and regular seat attached to the
bicycle.
   E.   Each bicycle driven along the streets of the city shall have such other
equipment, and the equipment shall be in such condition, as will allow it to be
operated safely. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-7: REQUIRED METHOD OF RIDING A BICYCLE:
   A.   No bicycle shall be used by either the driver or any passenger to carry
more passengers than the number for which it is designed or equipped.
   B.   An adult riding a bicycle may carry a child securely attached to the
person in a backpack or sling.
   C.   Every person driving a bicycle shall keep at least one hand on the
handlebars at all times and shall not carry any package, bundle, or article
that obstructs the driver's vision or prevents the use of both hands in the
control and operation of the bicycle.
   D.   Every person riding a bicycle upon a street shall have all of the
rights and duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle except as modified by
this chapter. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-8: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No bicyclist shall attach the bicycle or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway,
sidewalk, or bike path. This section shall not prohibit attaching a trailer or
semitrailer to a bicycle if that trailer or semitrailer is designed for such
attachment. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-9: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS:
No person riding a bicycle shall follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into or
park such bicycle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in response
to a fire alarm or other emergency. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-10: BICYCLE PARKING:
   A.   No person shall park a bicycle between the curb lines in such a way as
to:
      1.   Cause an obstruction to or impede the flow of traffic or of
pedestrians on public or private sidewalks;
      2.   Hinder or restrict access to handrails or ramps;
      3.   Lock the bicycle to a tree or fire hydrant;
      4.   Park on a street except in an area designated for bicycle parking;
or
      5.   Leave the bicycle locked to a pole or post owned by the city for
more than twelve (12) consecutive hours.
   B.   Persons stopping or parking bicycles shall obey all the provisions of
law regulating those activities on streets, but are exempt from other parking
provisions unless specifically mentioned. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-11: BICYCLE TO BE DRIVEN TO THE RIGHT:
   A.   Every person driving a bicycle shall ride in the right hand through
lane of the roadway except under any of the following conditions:
      1.   When driving a bicycle in a bicycle lane;
      2.   When preparing for a left turn;
      3.   When reasonably necessary for safety;
      4.   When overtaking and passing on the left of another vehicle;
      5.   When on a one-way street, driving in the left through lane; or
      6.   When driving on a sidewalk as permitted by section
7-7-18 of this chapter.
   B.   If any person drives a bicycle so slow as to impede or block the normal
and legal forward movement of traffic proceeding immediately behind such
vehicle, then such person shall drive within the right four feet (4') of the
street until such impeded traffic has passed by, except when reasonably
necessary for safety. A person driving on a one-way street may satisfy this
requirement by driving in the left four feet (4') of the street.
   C.   A bicycle may be driven on a paved shoulder if such driving does not
violate any section of law for passing or direction of traffic. (Ord. 48-09, 9-
21-2009)
7-7-12: BICYCLE TURN SIGNALS:
The driver of a bicycle is exempted from giving the hand and arm signal
continuously if the hand is needed in the control or operation of the bicycle,
but it shall be given for a substantial period while stopped waiting to turn.
The driver of a bicycle may signal a right turn by extending the right hand and
arm horizontally. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-13: LEFT TURNS BY BICYCLES:
   A.   The driver of a bicycle turning left in accordance with law may
approach the turn anywhere within any separate left turn lane and may finish
the turn by moving to the right lane as soon as it can be done in safety.
   B.   In addition to any other method specified by law, the driver of a
bicycle may make a left turn by crossing the intersection as close as
practicable to the right hand curb line to the far curb and then turning left
to proceed in the proper position on the other roadway. A person making a left
turn under the provisions of this subsection may do so only after complying
with all the obligations of drivers of vehicles approaching in the new
direction on the other roadway. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-14: PASSING ON RIGHT:
In addition to the permissible passing on the right specified in the code of
Iowa, the following overtaking and passing is permitted if completed in safety
on unobstructed paved streets of sufficient width, and the overtaking vehicle
is not stopped or slowed for a pedestrian:
   A.   The overtaking vehicle is a bicycle in a bike lane.
   B.   The overtaking vehicle is a bicycle that is traveling to the right of
vehicles stopped or moving in the right hand lane of travel, but the bicycle
may not pass the first vehicle stopped at an intersection unless the bicycle is
preparing to turn right and the vehicle is not signaling a right turn, nor may
the bicycle pass a moving vehicle that is signaling a right turn, nor may the
bicycle pass vehicles within an intersection except a vehicle signaling a left
turn. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-15: PASSING WITHIN LANE PROHIBITED:
Subject to special rules applicable to bicycles and rules permitting passing on
the right, no driver of any bicycle shall pass another vehicle other than a
bicycle within the same lane. But any bicycle may pass to the left of a bicycle
within the same lane if it is done in safety, and if the overtaking bicycle
does not come within three feet (3') of the bicycle. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-16: BICYCLE NOT TO PASS IN OR BETWEEN LANES:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the driver of a bicycle shall not
overtake or pass in the same lane occupied by a four (4) or more wheeled
vehicle being overtaken, nor shall any person overtake a bicycle between lanes
of traffic or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-
2009)
7-7-17: RIDING ABREAST:
Bicyclists on a street or a bicycle path shall not ride more than two (2)
abreast. Bicyclists operating bicycles two (2) abreast on a laned street shall
do so within a single lane. Bicyclists operating vehicles two (2) abreast on a
street should not impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic. (Ord.
48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-18: BICYCLE IN CROSSWALK:
   A.   A person driving a bicycle upon a sidewalk or in a crosswalk shall
yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible signal
before overtaking and passing any pedestrian.
   B.   A person shall not drive a bicycle upon a sidewalk or in a crosswalk in
those areas of the city where there is pedestrian congestion or at times in
other areas of the city where there is pedestrian congestion. In such event, a
bicyclist shall walk the bicycle if there is no street upon which a bicycle may
be driven with safety.
   C.   Persons driving bicycles across a street and along a crosswalk from a
sidewalk or bike path have all the duties applicable to pedestrians under the
same circumstances and similarly have such rights, but only when the approach
and entry into the street are made at a speed no greater than an ordinary walk
so that other drivers may anticipate the necessity to yield when required.
(Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-19: ABANDONED, UNLICENSED, AND UNATTENDED BICYCLES:
   A.   Every bicycle left at any place for such times and under such
circumstances as to cause the bicycle to reasonably appear to be abandoned or
parked in such manner as to cause an immediate safety hazard, or an obstruction
to the entry or exit of a building area constitutes a public nuisance. If the
person in possession of the bicycle is not present or is unwilling or unable to
provide for its immediate removal, a police officer may remove and impound the
bicycle.
   B.   Whenever any bicycle is found unlicensed by a police officer and there
is no person in attendance upon the parked bicycle, the police officer is
authorized to impound the bicycle.
   C.   Before the owner or person entitled to possession of any legally
impounded bicycle shall be permitted to remove it from the custody of the
bicycle pound or other authorized location, such person shall furnish evidence
of identity and ownership of the bicycle and evidence of a validly issued
bicycle license to be placed on the bicycle if no such license is permanently
affixed to the bicycle. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-20: RECKLESS OPERATOR OF A BICYCLE:
No bicyclist shall operate a bicycle recklessly or at a speed faster than is
reasonably proper or in a manner so as to endanger the life, limb, or property
of the bicyclist or of any other person. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-21 – 7-7-29: RESERVED:
(Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-30: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Every bicycle owned or ridden within this city shall be registered
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter within ten (10) days of the date the
bicycle is acquired or the residency of the owner is established.
   B.   Registration of bicycles shall be made at the city clerk's office and
at such other places and times as the police chief may determine to be in the
best interest of the public.
   C.   No bicycle shall be registered unless it displays a frame number. No
person engaged in the business of selling new or used bicycles at retail within
this city shall buy or sell any new or used bicycle unless such bicycle has a
frame number.
   D.   The city clerk's office and the police department shall not issue a
license for any bicycle when it is known or there are reasonable grounds to
believe that the applicant is not the owner of or entitled to the possession of
the bicycle.
   E.   Exempt from the registration requirements of this chapter are bicycles
in the possession of bicycle dealers and available for sale to others and
bicycles owned and operated by nonresidents of the city in competitive events
or demonstrations conducted within the city. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-31: REGISTRATION FEES:
   A.   For registrations on or after March 1, 2003, the fee for a bicycle
registration shall be five dollars ($5.00). The license shall be valid for the
length of time the bicycle is owned by the person to whom the license is
issued.
   B.   Bicycle registration fees shall not be prorated, refundable, or
transferred. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-32: BICYCLE RECORDS:
The police department shall keep a record of the number of each registration,
the date issued, the name and address of the person to whom issued, and the
number of the frame of the bicycle for which issued. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-33: REGISTRATION STICKER OR DECAL:
   A.   The chief of police shall prescribe a form of sticker or decal bearing
the registration number to be attached to the bicycle. The chief of police or
chief of police's designee may also prescribe an identifying marking to be
stamped into the frame of the bicycle if the bicycle does not have a unique
number stamped by the manufacturer.
   B.   The owner of a bicycle shall firmly attach the sticker or decal to the
frame of the bicycle for which issued.
   C.   No person shall remove a license sticker or decal from a bicycle except
upon transfer of ownership as provided herein or when the bicycle is dismantled
and no longer operated upon any street in this city. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-34: REPLACEMENT OF REGISTRATION STICKER OR DECAL:
In the event of loss or destruction of the original registration sticker or
decal, the owner of the bicycle may secure a replacement upon the payment of a
fee established by the city manager. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-35: ALTERING, COUNTERFEITING OF REGISTRATION STICKER OR DECAL PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to alter or counterfeit any registration
sticker or decal issued in conformity with this chapter. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-
2009)
7-7-36: RENTAL AGENCIES:
A rental agency shall not rent or offer to rent any bicycle unless:
   A.   The bicycle is registered;
   B.   A registration sticker or decal is attached to the frame of the
bicycle; and
   C.   The bicycle is equipped with the lamps and other equipment required by
state law or this chapter. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-37: BICYCLE DEALERS AND REPAIR SHOPS:
Upon receipt by any dealer or repair shop of a bicycle or portion thereof which
includes the frame, if the frame number or any portion of it has been removed,
tampered with, or in any manner made illegible, the dealer or repair shop shall
make an immediate report to the police department. (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
7-7-38: VIOLATION:
A violation of the provisions of this chapter is a scheduled violation in
accordance with section 805.8A of the code of Iowa. If a fine is not listed
under Iowa Code section 805.8A the scheduled fine shall be fifteen dollars
($15.00). (Ord. 48-09, 9-21-2009)
TITLE 8
HUMAN RIGHTS
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this title, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
herein unless the context otherwise requires:
AUXILIARY AIDS AND SERVICES: A. Qualified interpreters or other effective
methods of making aurally delivered materials available to individuals with
hearing impairments.
   B.   Qualified readers, taped texts, or other effective methods of making
visually delivered materials available to individuals with visual impairments.
   C.   Acquisition or modification of equipment or devices.
   D.   Other similar services and actions.
COMMISSION: The Dubuque human rights commission created by chapter 2 of this
title.
COURT: The Iowa district court in and for Dubuque County.
COVERED ENTITY: An employer, employment agency, labor organization, or joint
labor management committee.
DIRECT THREAT: A significant risk to the health or safety of others that cannot
be eliminated by reasonable accommodation.
DISABILITY: With respect to an individual:
   A.   A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more
major life activities of such individual and the condition of a person with a
positive human immunodeficiency virus test result, a diagnosis of acquired
immune deficiency syndrome, a diagnosis of acquired immune deficiency syndrome
related complex, or any other condition related to acquired immune deficiency
syndrome. The inclusion of a condition related to a positive human
immunodeficiency virus test results, in the meaning of "disability" under the
provisions of this title, does not preclude the application of the provisions
of this title to conditions resulting from other contagious or infectious
diseases.
      As described, major life activities:
      1.    Include, but are not limited to, caring for oneself, performing
manual tasks, seeing, hearing, eating, sleeping, walking, standing, lifting,
bending, speaking, breathing, learning, reading, concentrating, thinking,
communicating, and working.
      2.    Also include the operation of a major bodily function, including,
but not limited to, functions of the immune system, normal cell growth,
digestive, bowel, bladder, neurological, brain, respiratory, circulatory,
endocrine, and reproductive functions.
   B.   A record of such an impairment.
   C.   Being regarded as having such an impairment, as described:
      1.    An individual meets the requirement of being regarded as having
such an impairment if the individual establishes that he or she has been
subjected to an action prohibited under this title because of an actual or
perceived physical or mental impairment whether or not the impairment limits or
is perceived to limit a major life activity.
      2.   This provision shall not apply to impairments that are transitory
and minor. A "transitory impairment" is an impairment with an actual or
expected duration of six (6) months or less.
   D.   The definition of "disability" shall be construed in accordance with
the following:
      1.   In favor of broad coverage of individuals under this title, to the
maximum extent permitted by the terms of this title.
      2.   "Substantially limits" shall be interpreted consistently with the
findings and purposes of the ADA amendments act of 2008.
      3.    An impairment that substantially limits one major life activity
need not limit other major life activities in order to be considered a
disability.
      4.    An impairment that is episodic or in remission is a disability if
it would substantially limit a major life activity when active.
      5. a.    The determination of whether an impairment substantially limits
a major life activity shall be made without regard to the ameliorative effects
of mitigating measures such as:
            (1)    Medication, medical supplies, equipment, appliances, low
vision devices (which do not include ordinary eyeglasses or contact lenses),
prosthetics including limbs and devices, hearing aids and cochlear implants or
other implantable hearing devices, mobility devices, or oxygen therapy
equipment and supplies.
            (2)    Use of assistive technology.
            (3)    Reasonable accommodations or auxiliary aids or services.
            (4)    Learned behavioral or adaptive neurological modifications.
         b. The ameliorative effects of the mitigating measures of ordinary
eyeglasses or contact lenses shall be considered in determining whether an
impairment substantially limits a major life activity.
         c. As used in this section:
            (1)    "Ordinary eyeglasses" or "contact lenses" means lenses that
are intended to fully correct visual acuity or eliminate refractive error.
            (2)    "Low vision devices" means devices that magnify, enhance, or
otherwise augment a visual image.
DRUG: A controlled substance, as defined in the code of Iowa.
EMPLOYEE: An individual employed by an employer.
EMPLOYER: The state or any political subdivision, board, commission,
department, institution, or school district thereof, and every other person
employing employees within the state.
EMPLOYMENT AGENCY: Any person undertaking to procure employees or opportunities
to work for any other person or any person holding such person or itself to be
equipped to do so.
FAMILIAL STATUS: A. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of
eighteen (18) years being domiciled with:
      1.    A parent or other person having legal custody of such individual or
individuals.
      2.   The designee of such parent or other person having such custody,
with the written permission of such parent or other person.
   B.   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of
eighteen (18) years.
GENDER IDENTITY: A gender related identity of a person, regardless of the
person's assigned sex at birth.
LABOR ORGANIZATION: Any organization which exists for the purpose, in whole or
in part, of collective bargaining, dealing with employees concerning
grievances, terms, or conditions of employment, or other mutual aid or
protection in connection with employment.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, association, corporation, legal
representative, trustee, receiver, any other legal entity, and the state and
all political subdivisions and agencies thereof.
PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION: A. Each and every place, establishment, or facility of
whatever kind, nature, or class that caters or offers services, facilities, or
goods for a fee or charge to nonmembers of any organization or association
utilizing the place, establishment, or facility; provided, that any place,
establishment, or facility that caters or offers services, facilities, or goods
to the nonmembers gratuitously shall be deemed a "public accommodation", if the
accommodation receives any governmental support or subsidy.
   B.   "Public accommodation" shall not mean any bona fide private club or
other place, establishment, or facility which is by its nature distinctly
private, except when such distinctly private place, establishment, or facility
caters or offers services, facilities, or goods to the nonmembers for a fee or
charge or gratuitously, it shall be deemed a "public accommodation" during such
period.
   C.   "Public accommodation" includes each state and local government unit or
tax supported district of whatever kind, nature, or class that offers services,
facilities, benefits, grants, or goods to the public, gratuitously or
otherwise. This definition shall not be construed by negative implication or
otherwise to restrict any part or portion of the preexisting definition.
QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL WITH A DISABILITY: With respect to chapter 3, article A of
this title, an individual with a disability who, with or without reasonable
accommodation, can perform the essential functions of the employment position
that such individual holds or desires. For the purposes of this title,
consideration shall be given to the employer's judgment as to what functions of
a job are essential and if an employer has prepared a written description
before advertising or interviewing applicants for the job, this description
shall be considered evidence of the essential functions of the job.
READILY ACHIEVABLE: Easily accomplishable and able to be carried out without
much difficulty or expense. In determining whether an action is readily
achievable, factors to be considered include:
   A.   The nature and cost of the action needed under this title.
   B.   The overall financial resources of the facility or facilities involved
in the action, the number of persons employed at such facility, and the effect
on expenses and resources, or the impact otherwise of such accommodation upon
the operation of the facility.
   C.   The overall financial resources of the covered entity; the overall size
of the business of a covered entity with respect to the number of its
employees, and the number, type and location of its facilities.
   D.   The type of operation or operations of the covered entity, including
the composition, structure, and functions of the work force of such entity and
the geographic separateness, administrative, or fiscal relationship of the
facility or facilities in question to the covered entity.
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION: A. Making existing facilities used by employees
readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.
   B.   Job restructuring, part time or modified work schedules, reassignment
to a vacant position, acquisition or modification of equipment or devices,
appropriate adjustment or modifications of examinations, training materials or
policies, the provision of qualified readers or interpreters, and other similar
accommodations for individuals with disabilities.
SEXUAL ORIENTATION: A person's actual, history of, or perceived
heterosexuality, homosexuality, or bisexuality but not including participation
in conduct that is prohibited by law.
STATE: Each of the several states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands of the United States,
the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands.
UNDUE HARDSHIP: An action requiring significant difficulty or expense. In
determining whether an accommodation would impose an undue hardship on a
covered entity, factors to be considered include:
   A.   The nature and cost of the accommodation needed under this title.
   B.   The overall financial resources of the facility or facilities involved
in the provision of the reasonable accommodation, the number of persons
employed at such facility, the effect on expenses and resources, or the impact
otherwise of such accommodation upon the operation of the facility.
   C.   The overall financial resources of the covered entity, the overall size
of the business of a covered entity with respect to the number of its
employees, and the number, type, and location of its facilities.
   D.   The type of operation or operations of the covered entity including the
composition, structure, and functions of the work force of such entity and the
geographic separateness, administrative, or fiscal relationship of the facility
or facilities in question to the covered entity.
UNFAIR PRACTICE OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE: Those practices specified as unfair
or discriminatory in chapters 3 and 5 of this title. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009;
amd. Ord. 33-21, 10-4-2021; Ord. 30-25, 7-14-2025)
CHAPTER 2
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
SECTION:
8-2-1: Commission Created
8-2-2: Purpose
8-2-3: Internal Organization And Rules
8-2-4: Procedures For Operation
8-2-5: Membership
8-2-6: Oath
8-2-7: Terms
8-2-8: Vacancies
8-2-9: Officers; Organization
8-2-10: Meetings
8-2-11: Compensation
8-2-12: Removal
8-2-13: Powers, Duties, And Responsibilities
8-2-14: Records To Be Public; Exceptions
8-2-15: Confidentiality Of Complaints And Investigatory Materials
8-2-16: Subpoenas
8-2-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the human rights commission. (Ord. 45-15, 7-20-2015;
amd. Ord. 33-21, 10-4-2021; Ord. 30-25, 7-14-2025)
8-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commission is to establish a human rights commission in
conformance with the Iowa Civil Rights Act, to declare the public policy of
nondiscrimination in the city; to provide for educational programs to prevent
and eliminate discrimination in the city; and to cooperate with the Iowa Civil
Rights Commission in the fulfillment of contractual obligations and the
enforcement process. (Ord. 45-15, 7-20-2015; amd. Ord. 33-21, 10-4-2021; Ord.
61-24, 11-18-2024)
8-2-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The commission may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as may be necessary and which are not in conflict with this code or
the Iowa Code. The Commission has adopted Administrative Rules which shall
govern the work of the body and the enforcement process. (Ord. 45-15, 7-20-
2015; amd. Ord. 61-24, 11-18-2024)
8-2-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the city govern the commission in all its operations. (Ord. 45-15, 7-20-
2015)
8-2-5: MEMBERSHIP:
The commission comprises nine (9) residents of the city, appointed by the city
council from various racial, religious, cultural, and social groups within the
city. (Ord. 45-15, 7-20-2015; amd. Ord. 30-24, 6-17-2024)
8-2-6: OATH:
Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an oath of office
at the first meeting of the commission following the appointment or at the city
clerk's office any time prior to the first meeting of the commission. (Ord. 45-
15, 7-20-2015; amd. Ord. 30-24, 6-17-2024)
8-2-7: TERMS:
The term of office for commissioners is three (3) years or until such
commissioner's successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 45-15, 7-20-2015)
8-2-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original appointments. (Ord. 45-
15, 7-20-2015)
8-2-9: OFFICERS; ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Chair and Vice Chair. The commissioners must choose annually a
chairperson and vice chairperson, each to serve a term of one year.
   B.   Vacancies in Chair and Vice Chair. The commissioners must fill a
vacancy among its officers for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term.
   C.   Secretary. A city staff member shall serve as secretary. (Ord. 45-15,
7-20-2015; amd. Ord. 61-24, 11-18-2024)
8-2-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The commission will be scheduled to meet monthly and
must meet at least once per quarter.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairperson or
at the written request of a majority of the commissioners.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa open meetings law.
   D.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
meetings of the commission, without being excused by the chairperson, such
absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to the city council
that the position be declared vacant and a replacement appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
      3.   Remote attendance is allowed; arrangements should be made with city
staff in advance of the meeting.
   E.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the commission must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting, whichever is later.
   F.   Quorum: Five (5) commissioners constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the commissioners present
and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or resolution. (Ord. 45-
15, 7-20-2015; amd. Ord. 30-24, 6-17-2024; Ord. 61-24, 11-18-2024)
8-2-11: COMPENSATION:
Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official
commission business within the limits established in the city administrative
policies and budget. (Ord. 45-15, 7-20-2015; amd. Ord. 30-24, 6-17-2024)
8-2-12: REMOVAL:
The city council may remove any commissioner for cause upon written charges and
after public hearing. (Ord. 45-15, 7-20-2015)
8-2-13: POWERS, DUTIES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The commission serves in an advisory capacity to the City Council and has the
following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
   A.   To study the existence, character, causes, and extent of discrimination
in public accommodations, credit transactions, employment, apprenticeship
programs, on the job training programs, vocational schools, other educational
institutions, and housing in the city and to attempt the elimination of such
discrimination through education, conciliation, and recommended changes to
policy and practice.
   B.   To form subcommittees to address specifically identified goals or needs
in the community related to the elimination of discrimination.
   C.   To attend events and training opportunities both within the community
and beyond.
   D.   To actively promote human rights to various groups in the community
including governmental bodies, clubs, schools, and media.
   E.   To assist the City Manager, upon request, in the recruitment and
selection of staff.
   F.   To work with the staff appointed by the City Manager to:
      1.   Review and provide feedback to city staff on the annual report
prepared for transmission to the Mayor and City Council describing the work
performed by the staff and the commission;
      2.   Discuss, develop, and submit budget requests in furtherance of the
objectives and goals of the Commission and Department;
      3.   Review at the regular meetings intake and complaint data.
      4.   As needed, prepare for public hearings by attending training on the
procedures outlined in the Administrative Rules for conducting a hearing.
   G.   To make recommendations to the City Council concerning the promotion
and advancement of respect and belonging in the community and addressing
discrimination in order to improve quality of life and livability for all
residents, including the adjustment or adoption of regulations consistent with
and necessary for the civil rights enforcement provisions of this Title.
   H.   To cooperate, within the limits of any appropriations made for its
operation, with other agencies or organizations, both public and private, whose
purposes are consistent with those of this chapter, in the planning and
conducting of programs designed to advance respect and belonging and eliminate
discrimination and tensions.
   I.   To receive, administer, dispense, and account for any restricted funds
that may be donated to the commission and any grants that may be awarded the
commission for furthering the purposes of this title. No disbursements will be
made of any restricted funds without authority from the City Council.
   J.   On occasion, and pursuant to this Title, the adopted Administrative
Rules, the City contract with the Iowa Civil Rights Commission, and the Iowa
Code, hold hearings upon a complaint made against a covered person or entity
alleging a violation of the protections afforded by this Title for which
conciliation efforts have failed to resolve the complaint. (Ord. 45-15, 7-20-
2015; amd. Ord. 33-21, 10-4-2021; Ord. 61-24, 11-18-2024; Ord. 30-25, 7-14-
2025)
8-2-14: RECORDS TO BE PUBLIC; EXCEPTIONS:
All records of the commission are public except charges, complaints, reports of
investigations, statements, and other documents or records obtained in
investigation of any charges. (Ord. 45-15, 7-20-2015)
8-2-15: CONFIDENTIALITY OF COMPLAINTS AND INVESTIGATORY MATERIALS:
No member of the commission will disclose the filing of a charge, the
information gathered during the investigation, or the endeavors to eliminate
such discriminatory or unfair practice by conference, conciliation, or
persuasion unless such disclosure is made in connection with the conduct of
such investigation or after the commission has held a public hearing upon a
complaint filed in connection with such charge. This section does not prevent
any complainant, witness, or other person from publicizing the filing of a
charge or complaint or the matter therein complained of. (Ord. 45-15, 7-20-
2015; amd. Ord. 61-24, 11-18-2024)
8-2-16: SUBPOENAS:
The staff assigned to the commission may issue subpoenas and order discovery in
aid of investigations under this title pursuant to the Administrative Rules.
Such subpoenas and discovery may be ordered to the same extent and subject to
the same limitations as would apply for county attorney subpoenas. (Ord. 45-15,
7-20-2015; amd. Ord. 61-24, 11-18-2024)
CHAPTER 3
UNFAIR AND DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Generally
8-3-2: Accommodations Or Services
8-3-3: Employment Practices
8-3-4: Credit
8-3-5: Education
8-3-1: GENERALLY:
   A.   Aiding Or Abetting: It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice
for:
      1.   Any person to intentionally aid, abet, compel, or coerce another
person to engage in any of the practices declared unfair or discriminatory by
this title.
      2.   Any person to discriminate against another person in any of the
rights protected against discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color,
sex, national origin, familial status, religion, age, disability, marital
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity by this chapter because such
person has lawfully opposed any practice forbidden under this chapter, obeys
the provisions of this chapter, or has filed a complaint, testified, or
assisted in any proceeding under this title.
      3.   Any person to discriminate against another person because of the
person's relationship or association with a person protected under this title.
   B.   Sex And Age Discrimination Provisions Not Applicable To Retirement
Plans; Exception: The provisions of this title relating to discrimination
because of sex or age shall not be construed to apply to any retirement plan or
benefit system of any employer unless such plan or system is a mere subterfuge
adopted for the purposes of evading the provisions of this title.
      1.   However, a retirement plan or benefit system shall not require the
involuntary retirement of a person because of that person's age.
      2.   A health insurance program provided by an employer may exclude
coverage of abortion, except where the life of the mother would be endangered
if the fetus were carried to term or where medical complications have arisen
from an abortion.
      3.   An employee welfare plan may provide life, disability, or health
insurance benefits which vary by age based on actuarial differences if the
employer contributes equally for all the participating employees or may provide
for employer contributions differing by age if the benefits for all the
participating employees do not vary by age.
   C.   Sexual Harassment Victim Protection: Evidence concerning the past
sexual behavior of an alleged victim of sexual harassment shall not be
admissible in any proceeding before the human rights commission. (Ord. 18-09,
4-6-2009)
8-3-2: ACCOMMODATIONS OR SERVICES:
   A.   Prohibited Practices: It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice
for any owner, lessee, sublessee, proprietor, manager, or superintendent of any
public accommodation or any agent or employee thereof:
      1.   To refuse or deny to any person because of race, creed, color, sex,
age, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, or gender identity the
accommodations, advantages, facilities, services, or privileges thereof, or
otherwise to discriminate against any person because of race, creed, color,
sex, age, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, or gender identity in
the furnishing of such accommodations, advantages/facilities, services, or
privileges.
      2.   To directly or indirectly advertise or in any other manner indicate
or publicize that the patronage of persons of any particular race, creed,
color, sex, age, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, or gender
identity is unwelcome, objectionable, not acceptable, or not solicited.
   B.   Exemptions: This section shall not apply to:
      1.   Any bona fide religious institution with respect to any
qualifications the institution may impose based on religion when such
qualifications are related to a bona fide religious purpose.
      2.   The rental or leasing to transient individuals of less than four (4)
rooms within a single housing accommodation if the occupant or owner or members
of the owner's or occupant's family reside therein.
      3.   Discounts for services or accommodations based upon age. (Ord. 18-
09, 4-6-2009)
8-3-3: EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES:
   A.   Prohibited Practices: It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice
for any:
      1.   Person to refuse to hire, accept, register, classify, or refer for
employment, to discharge any employee, or to otherwise discriminate in
employment against any applicant for employment or any employee because of the
race, creed, color, sex, age, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, or
gender identity of such applicant or employee, unless based upon the nature of
the occupation.
      2.   Labor organizations or the employees, agents, or members thereof to
refuse to admit to membership any applicant, to expel any member, or to
otherwise discriminate against any applicant for membership or any member in
the privileges, rights, or benefits of such membership because of the race,
creed, color, sex, age, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, or
gender identity of such applicant or member.
      3.   Employer, employment agency, labor organization, or the employees,
agents, or members thereof, to directly or indirectly advertise or in any other
manner indicate or publicize that individuals of any particular race, creed,
color, sex, age, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, or gender
identity are unwelcome, objectionable, not acceptable, or not solicited for
employment or membership, unless based upon the nature of the occupation.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   The prohibition by this section of discrimination based on sexual
orientation shall not apply to any bona fide religious institution with respect
to any qualifications for employment by such institution.
      2.   This section shall not apply to:
         a.   Any employer who regularly employs less than four (4)
individuals. For purposes of this subsection, the owners, owners' spouses, and
children shall not be counted as employees.
         b.   The employment of individuals for work within the home of the
employer if the employer or members of the employer's family reside therein
during such employment.
         c.   The employment of individuals to render personal service to the
person of the employer or members of the employer's family.
         d.   Any bona fide religious institution or its educational
association, corporation, or society with respect to any qualifications for
employment based on religion when such qualifications are related to a bona
fide religious purpose. A religious qualification for instructional, personnel,
or administrative officer serving in a supervisory capacity of a bona fide
religious educational facility or religious institution shall be presumed to be
a bona fide occupational qualification.
         e.   Discrimination on the basis of age if the person subject to the
discrimination is under the age of eighteen (18) years, unless that person is
considered by law to be an adult.
         f.   A State or Federal program designed to benefit a specific age
classification which serves a bona fide public purpose. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-3-4: CREDIT:
It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for any:
   A.   Creditor to refuse to enter into a consumer credit transaction or
impose finance charges or other terms or conditions more onerous than those
regularly extended by that creditor to consumers of similar economic
backgrounds and current situations because of age, color, creed, national
origin, race, religion, marital status, sex, physical disability, sexual
orientation, familial status, or gender identity.
   B.   Person authorized or licensed to do business in this State pursuant to
chapters 524, 533, 534, 536, or 536A of the Code of Iowa to refuse to loan or
extend to persons of similar economic backgrounds because of age, color, creed,
national origin, race, religion, marital status, sex, physical disability,
sexual orientation, familial status, or gender identity.
   C.   Creditor to refuse to offer credit life or health and accident
insurance because of color, creed, national origin, race, religion, marital
status, age, physical disability, sex, sexual orientation, familial status, or
gender identity. Refusal by a creditor to offer credit life or health and
accident insurance based upon the age or physical disability of the consumer
shall not be an unfair or discriminatory practice if such denial is based
solely upon bona fide underwriting considerations not prohibited by the Code of
Iowa or United States Code.
   D.   The provisions in this section shall not be construed by negative
implications or otherwise to narrow or restrict any other provisions of this
title. (Ord. 47-17, 12-18-2017)
8-3-5: EDUCATION:
   A.   Prohibited Practices; Exceptions:
      1.   It is an unfair or discriminatory practice for any educational
institution to discriminate on the basis of race, creed, color, sex, national
origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity in any
program or activity. Such discriminatory practices shall include, but not be
limited to, the following practices:
         a.   Exclusion of a person or persons from participation in, denial of
the benefits of, or subject to discrimination in any academic, research,
occupational training, or other program or activity except athletic programs.
         b.   Denial of comparable opportunity in intramural and
interscholastic athletic programs.
         c.   Discrimination among persons in employment and the conditions of
employment.
         d.   On the basis of sex, the application of any rule concerning the
actual or potential parental, family, or marital status of a person or the
exclusion of any person from any program or activity or employment because of
pregnancy or related conditions dependent upon the physician's diagnosis and
certification.
      2.   For the purposes of this section, "educational institution" includes
any preschool, elementary, secondary, or community college, area education
agency, postsecondary college or university, and their governing boards. This
section does not prohibit an educational institution from maintaining separate
toilet facilities, locker rooms, or living facilities for the different sexes
so long as comparable facilities are provided. Nothing in this subsection shall
be construed as prohibiting any bona fide religious institution from imposing
qualifications based on religion when such qualifications are related to a bona
fide religious purpose or any institution from admitting students of only one
sex.
   B.   Examinations And Courses: Any person that offers examinations or
courses related to applications, licensing, certification, or credentialing for
secondary or postsecondary education, professional, or trade purposes shall
offer such examinations or courses in a place and manner accessible to persons
with disabilities or offer alternative accessible arrangements for such
individuals. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
ARTICLE A. DISABILITY DISCRIMINATION
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Employment Prohibited Practices
8-3A-2: Defenses, Exemptions And Exclusions
8-3A-3: Construction
8-3A-4: Illegal Use Of Drugs And Alcohol
8-3A-5: Public Accommodations; Prohibited Practices
8-3A-6: New Construction And Alteration Of Public Accommodations
8-3A-1: EMPLOYMENT PROHIBITED PRACTICES:
   A.   General Rule: No person shall discriminate against a qualified
individual on the basis of disability in regard to job application procedures,
the hiring, advancement, or discharge of employees, employee compensation, job
training, and other terms, conditions, and privileges of employment.
   B.   Construction: As used in subsection A of this section, the term
"discriminate against an individual on the basis of disability" includes:
      1.   Limiting, segregating, or classifying a job applicant or employee in
a way that adversely affects the opportunities or status of such applicant or
employee because of the disability of such applicant or employee.
      2.   Participating in a contractual or other arrangement or relationship
that has the effect of subjecting a covered entity's qualified applicant or
employee with a disability to the discrimination prohibited by this title. Such
relationship includes a relationship with an employment or referral agency,
labor union, an organization providing fringe benefits to an employee of the
covered entity, or an organization providing training and apprenticeship
programs.
      3.   Utilizing standards, criteria, or methods of administration:
         a.   That have the effect of discrimination on the basis of
disability.
         b.   That perpetuate the discrimination of others who are subject to
common administrative control.
      4.   Excluding or otherwise denying equal jobs or benefits to a qualified
individual because of the known disability of an individual with whom the
qualified individual is known to have a relationship or association.
      5.   Not making reasonable accommodations to the known physical or mental
limitations of an otherwise qualified individual with a disability who is an
applicant or employee, unless such covered entity can demonstrate that the
accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of the business
of such covered entity, or denying employment opportunities to a job applicant
or employee who is an otherwise qualified individual with a disability, if such
denial is based on the need of such covered entity to make reasonable
accommodation to the physical or mental impairments of the employee or
applicant.
      6.   Using qualification standards, employment tests, or other selection
criteria that screen out or tend to screen out an individual with a disability
or a class of individuals with disabilities unless the standard test or other
selection criteria, as used by the covered entity, is shown to be job related
for the position in question and is consistent with business necessity.
      7.   Failing to select and administer tests concerning employment in the
most effective manner to ensure that when such test is administered to a job
applicant or employee who has a disability that impairs sensory, manual, or
speaking skills, such test results accurately reflect the skills, aptitude, or
whatever other factor of such applicant or employee that such test purports to
measure, rather than reflecting the impaired sensory, manual, or speaking
skills of such employee or applicant, except where such skills are the factors
that the test purports to measure.
      8.   Soliciting or requiring as a condition of employment of any employee
or prospective employee a test for the presence of the antibody to the human
immunodeficiency virus or affecting the terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment or terminating the employment of any employee solely as a result of
the employee obtaining a test for the presence of the antibody to the human
immunodeficiency virus. An agreement between an employer, employment agency,
labor organization, or their employees, agents, or members and an employee or
prospective employee concerning employment, pay, or benefits to an employee or
prospective employee in return for taking a test for the presence of the
antibody to the human immunodeficiency virus is prohibited. The prohibitions of
this subsection do not apply if the state epidemiologist determines and the
state director of public health declares through the utilization of guidelines
established by the center for disease control of the United States department
of health and human services that a person with a condition related to acquired
immune deficiency syndrome poses a significant risk of transmission of the
human immunodeficiency virus to other persons in a specific occupation.
   C.   Medical Examinations And Inquiries:
      1.   In General: The prohibition against discrimination as referred to in
subsection A of this section shall include medical examinations and inquiries.
      2.   Preemployment:
         a.   Prohibited Examination Or Inquiry: Except as provided in
subsection C3 this section, a covered entity shall not conduct a medical
examination or make inquiries of a job applicant as to whether such applicant
is an individual with a disability or as to the nature or severity of such
disability.
         b.   Acceptable Inquiry: A covered entity may make preemployment
inquiries into the ability of an applicant to perform job related functions.
      3.   Employment Entrance Examination: A covered entity may require a
medical examination after an offer of employment has been made to a job
applicant and prior to the commencement of the employment duties of such
applicant and may condition an offer of employment on the results of such
examination, if:
         a.   All entering employees are subjected to such an examination
regardless of disability.
         b.   Information obtained regarding the medical condition or history
of the applicant is collected and maintained on separate forms and in separate
medical files and is treated as a confidential medical record, except that:
            (1)   Supervisors and managers may be informed regarding necessary
restrictions on the work or duties of the employee and necessary
accommodations.
            (2)   First aid and safety personnel may be informed, when
appropriate, if the disability might require emergency treatment.
            (3)   Government officials investigating compliance with this
chapter shall be provided relevant information on request.
         c.   The results of such examination are used only in accordance with
this chapter.
      4.   Examination And Inquiry:
         a.   Prohibited Examinations And Inquiries: A covered entity shall not
require a medical examination and shall not make inquiries of an employee as to
whether such employee is an individual with a disability or as to the nature or
severity of the disability, unless such examination or inquiry is shown to be
job related and consistent with business necessity.
         b.   Acceptable Examinations And Inquiries: A covered entity may
conduct voluntary medical examinations, including voluntary medical histories,
which are part of an employee health program available to employees at the work
site. A covered entity may make inquiries into the ability of an employee to
perform job related functions.
         c.   Requirement: Information obtained under subsection C4b of this
section regarding the medical condition or history of any employee is subject
to the requirements of subsections C3b and C3c of this section. (Ord. 18-09, 4-
6-2009)
8-3A-2: DEFENSES, EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   Defenses:
      1.   In General: It may be a defense to a charge of discrimination under
this article that an alleged application of qualification standards, tests, or
selection criteria that screen out or otherwise deny a job or benefit to an
individual with a disability has been shown to be job related and consistent
with business necessity, and such performance cannot be accomplished by
reasonable accommodation, as required under this title.
      2.   Qualification Standards: The term "qualification standards" may
include a requirement that an individual shall not pose a direct threat to the
health or safety of other individuals in the workplace.
      3.   Qualification Standards And Tests Related To Uncorrected Vision:
Notwithstanding the provisions under the definition of "disability" in section
8-1-1 of this title, a covered entity shall not use qualification standards,
employment tests, or other selection criteria based on an individual's
uncorrected vision unless the standard, test, or other selection criteria, as
used by the covered entity, is shown to be job related and consistent with
business necessity.
      4.   Reasonable Accommodation And Good Faith Effort: In cases where a
discriminatory practice involves the provision of a reasonable accommodation
pursuant to this subsection, actual damages other than damages for back pay may
not be awarded under this title where the covered entity proves, by a
preponderance of the evidence, good faith efforts, in consultation with the
person with the disability who has informed the covered entity that
accommodation is needed, to identify and make a reasonable accommodation that
would provide such individual with an equally effective opportunity and would
not cause an undue hardship on the operation of the business.
      5.   List Of Infectious And Communicable Diseases:
         a.   Applications: In any case in which an individual has an
infectious or communicable disease that is transmitted to others through the
handling of food that is included on the list developed by the secretary of
health and human services under 42 USC 12113(d) and which cannot be eliminated
by reasonable accommodation, a covered entity may refuse to assign or continue
to assign such individual to a job involving food handling.
         b.   Construction: Nothing in this article shall be construed to
preempt, modify, or amend any local law, ordinance, or regulation applicable to
food handling which is designed to protect the public health from individuals
who pose a significant risk to the health or safety of others, which cannot be
eliminated by reasonable accommodation, pursuant to the list of infectious or
communicable diseases and the modes of transmissibility published by the
secretary of health and human services.
   B.   Exemptions: This article shall not apply to:
      1.   Any employer who regularly employs less than four (4) individuals.
For purposes of this subsection, the owner(s), the owner(s)' spouse(s), and
children shall not be counted as employees.
      2.   The employment of individuals for work within the home of the
employer if the employer or members of the employer's family reside therein
during such employment.
      3.   The employment of individuals to render personal service to the
person of the employer or members of the employer's family.
      4.   An employer's qualifications for a job may include a requirement
that an individual shall not pose a direct threat to the health or safety of
other individuals in the workplace. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
   C.   Exclusions: For purposes of the definition of "disability" in section
8-1-1 of this title, the following are not impairments and as such are not
disabilities under this article:
      1.   Homosexuality, bisexuality, transvestism, transsexualism, and gender
identity disorders not resulting from physical impairments;
      2.   Pedophilia, exhibitionism, voyeurism, or other sexual behavior
disorders;
      3.   Compulsive gambling, kleptomania, or pyromania; or
      4.   Psychoactive substances use disorders resulting from current illegal
use of drugs. (Ord. 31-13, 7-1-2013)
8-3A-3: CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Insurance:
      1.   This title shall not be construed to prohibit or restrict:
         a.   An insurer, hospital, or medical service company, health
maintenance organization, or any agent or entity that administers benefit plans
or similar organizations from underwriting risks, classifying risks, or
administering such risks that are based on or not inconsistent with other laws
of this state.
         b.   A person or organization covered by this title from establishing,
sponsoring, observing, or administering the terms of a bona fide benefit plan
that are based on underwriting risks, classifying risks, or administering such
risks that are based on or not inconsistent with other laws of this state.
         c.   A person or organization covered by this title from establishing,
sponsoring, observing, or administering the terms of a bona fide benefit plan
that is subject to the laws of this state that regulate insurance.
      2.   Subsection A1 of this section shall not be used as subterfuge to
evade the purposes of this title.
   B.   Accommodations And Services: Nothing in this title shall be construed
to require an individual with a disability to accept an accommodation, aid,
service, opportunity, or benefit which such individual chooses not to accept.
   C.   Smoking: Nothing in this article shall be construed to preclude the
prohibition of or the imposition of restrictions on smoking in places of
employment or in public accommodations. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-3A-4: ILLEGAL USE OF DRUGS AND ALCOHOL:
   A.   Qualified Individual With A Disability: For purposes of this article, a
qualified individual with a disability shall not include any employee or
applicant who is currently engaging in the illegal use of drugs, when the
covered entity acts on the basis of such use.
   B.   Rules Of Construction: Nothing in subsection A of this section shall be
construed to exclude as a qualified individual with a disability an individual
who:
      1.   Has successfully completed a supervised drug rehabilitation program
and is no longer engaging in the illegal use of drugs or has otherwise been
rehabilitated successfully and is no longer engaging in such use.
      2.   Is participating in a supervised rehabilitation program and is no
longer engaging in such use.
      3.   Is erroneously regarded as engaging in such use, but is not engaging
in such use; except that it shall not be a violation of this title for a
covered entity to adopt or administer reasonable policies or procedures
including, but not limited to, drug testing designed to ensure that an
individual described in subsection B1 or B2 of this section is no longer
engaging in the illegal use of drugs. However, nothing in this section shall be
construed to encourage, prohibit, restrict, or authorize the conducting of
testing for the illegal use of drugs.
   C.   Authority Of Covered Entity: A covered entity:
      1.   May prohibit the illegal use of drugs and the use of alcohol at the
workplace by all employees.
      2.   May require that employees shall not be under the influence of
alcohol or be engaging in the illegal use of drugs at the workplace.
      3.   May hold an employee who engages in the illegal use of drugs or who
is an alcoholic to the same qualification standards for employment or job
performance and behavior that such entity holds other employees, even if any
unsatisfactory performance or behavior is related to the drug use or alcoholism
of such employee.
   D.   Drug Testing:
      1.   In General: For purposes of this title, a test to determine the
illegal use of drugs shall not be considered a medical examination.
      2.   Construction: Nothing in this title shall be construed to encourage,
prohibit, or authorize the conducting of drug testing for the illegal use of
drugs by job applicants or employees or making employment decisions based on
such test results.
   E.   Governmental Regulations: Nothing in this title shall be construed to
encourage, prohibit, restrict, or authorize the otherwise lawful exercise by
entities subject to the jurisdiction of the Iowa department of transportation
or any other state or federal agency of authority to:
      1.   Test employees of such entities in, and applicants for, positions
involving safety sensitive duties for the illegal use of drugs and for on duty
impairment by alcohol.
      2.   Remove such persons who test positive for illegal use of drugs and
on duty impairment by alcohol pursuant to subsection E1 of this section from
safety sensitive duties in implementing subsection C of this section. (Ord. 18-
09, 4-6-2009)
8-3A-5: PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS; PROHIBITED PRACTICES:
   A.   It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for any person on the
basis of disability to refuse or deny full and equal enjoyment of the goods,
services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or other public accommodations.
   B.   It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice not to afford an
individual or class of individuals on the basis of disability the full and
equal enjoyment of a facility in an integrated setting appropriate to the needs
of the individual.
   C.   It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for any person to
discriminate against an individual or class of individuals in any of the
following:
      1.   It shall be discriminatory to provide an individual or class of
individuals, on the basis of a disability or disabilities of such individual or
class, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements with a
good, service, facility, privilege, advantage, or accommodation that is
different or separate from that provided to other individuals, unless such
action is necessary to provide the individual or class of individuals with a
good, service, facility, privilege, advantage, accommodation, or other
opportunity that is as effective as that provided to others.
      2.   Notwithstanding the existence of separate or different programs or
activities provided in accordance with this section, an individual with a
disability shall not be denied the opportunity to participate in such programs
or activities that are not separate or different.
      3.   A public accommodation shall not, directly or through contractual or
other arrangements, utilize standards or criteria or methods of administration:
         a.   That have the effect of discriminating on the basis of
disability.
         b.   That perpetuate the discrimination of others who are subject to
common administrative control.
      4.   It shall be discriminatory to exclude or otherwise deny equal goods,
services, facilities, privileges, advantages, accommodations, or other
opportunities to a person because of the known disability of an individual with
whom the individual or entity is known to have a relationship or association.
   D.   For purposes of subsection A of this section, discrimination includes:
      1.   The imposition or application of eligibility criteria that screen
out or tend to screen out an individual with a disability or any class of
individuals with disabilities from fully and equally enjoying any goods,
services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations, unless such
criteria can be shown to be necessary for the provision of the goods, services,
facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations being offered.
      2.   A failure to make reasonable modifications in policies, practices,
or procedures when such modifications are necessary to afford such goods,
services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations to individuals
with disabilities, unless the entity can demonstrate that making such
modifications would fundamentally alter the nature of such goods, services,
facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations.
      3.   A failure to take such steps as may be necessary to ensure that no
individual with a disability is excluded, denied services, segregated, or
otherwise treated differently than other individuals because of the absence of
auxiliary aids and services, unless the entity can demonstrate that taking such
steps would fundamentally alter the nature of the goods, service, facility,
privilege, advantage, or accommodation being offered or would result in an
undue burden.
      4.   A failure to remove architectural barriers and communication
barriers that are structural in nature, in existing facilities, and
transportation barriers in existing vehicles and rail passenger cars used by an
establishment for transporting individuals (not including barriers that can
only be removed through the retrofitting of vehicles or rail passenger cars by
the installation of hydraulic or other lift), where such removal is readily
achievable.
      5.   Where an entity can demonstrate that the removal of a barrier under
subsection D4 this section is not readily achievable, a failure to make such
goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations
available through alternative methods if such methods are readily achievable.
   E.   Nothing in this section shall require an entity to permit an individual
to participate in or benefit from the goods, services, facilities, privileges,
advantages, and accommodations of such entity where such individual poses a
direct threat to the health or safety of others. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-3A-6: NEW CONSTRUCTION AND ALTERATION OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS:
   A.   It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for any person on the
basis of disability to:
      1.   Fail to design and construct all public accommodations built after
September 1, 1996, so that they are readily accessible to and usable by
individuals with disabilities, except where an entity can demonstrate that it
is structurally impracticable to meet such requirements.
      2.   With respect to a facility or part thereof that is altered by, on
behalf of, or for the use of an establishment in a manner that affects or could
affect the usability of the facility or part thereof, a failure to make
alterations in such a manner that, to the maximum extent feasible, the altered
portions of the facility are readily accessible to and usable by individuals
with disabilities, including individuals who use wheelchairs. Where the entity
is undertaking an alteration that affects or could affect usability of or
access to an area of the facility containing a primary function, the entity
shall also make the alterations in such a manner that, to the maximum extent
feasible, the path of travel to the altered area and the bathrooms, telephones,
and drinking fountains serving the altered area are readily accessible to and
usable by individuals with disabilities where such alterations to the path of
travel or the bathrooms, telephones, and drinking fountains serving the altered
area are not disproportionate to the overall alterations in terms of cost and
scope.
   B.   Subsections A1 and A2 of this section shall not be construed to require
the installation of an elevator for facilities that are less than three (3)
stories or have less than three thousand (3,000) square feet per story unless
the building is a shopping center, a shopping mall, or the professional office
of a healthcare provider. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 4
ENFORCEMENT OF CIVIL RIGHTS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Filing Complaints
8-4-2: Amendments Of Complaints
8-4-3: Time Limitation For Filing Complaint
8-4-4: Commission Staff Proceedings On Complaints
8-4-5: Commission Proceedings Upon Failure To Reach Settlement By Conciliation
8-4-6: Commission Orders
8-4-7: Release From Administrative Process; Alternative Judicial Proceedings
Upon Complaints
8-4-8: Provisional Remedies
8-4-9: Judicial Review; Enforcement Actions
8-4-10: Rule Of Construction
8-4-1: FILING COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Filing Of Verified, Written Complaint: All persons claiming to be
aggrieved by a discriminatory or unfair practice within this city may sign and
file with the commission a verified, written complaint in triplicate which
shall state the name and address of the person alleged to have committed the
discriminatory or unfair practice of which complained, shall set forth the
particulars thereof, and shall contain such other information as may be
required by the commission. The commission, a commissioner, or the city
attorney's office may in like manner sign and file such complaint.
   B.   Protection Of Person's Identity: A person who has tested positive for
human immunodeficiency virus or who has a diagnosis of acquired immune
deficiency syndrome or a person who is perceived to have human immunodeficiency
virus or acquired immune deficiency may file a disability charge utilizing
"John Doe", "Jane Doe", or a coded number to protect the person's identity. The
name of the charging party shall be disclosed to the respondent. It shall be a
discriminatory practice for any person to disclose the name of the coded person
or information that would lead to that person's identity. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-
2009)
8-4-2: AMENDMENTS OF COMPLAINTS:
The commission or the complainant shall have the power to reasonably and fairly
amend any complaint and the respondent shall have like power to amend such
respondent's answer at any time prior to hearing. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-4-3: TIME LIMITATION FOR FILING COMPLAINT:
   A.   A claim under this title shall not be maintained unless a complaint is
filed with the commission within three hundred (300) days after the alleged
discriminatory or unfair practice occurred.
   B.   For purposes of this section, an unlawful employment practice occurs,
with respect to discrimination in compensation in violation of this title, when
a discriminatory compensation decision or other practice is adopted, when an
individual becomes subject to a discriminatory compensation decision or other
practice, or when an individual is affected by application of a discriminatory
compensation decision or other practice, including each time wages, benefits,
or other compensation is paid, resulting in whole or in part from such a
decision or other practice. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-4-4: COMMISSION STAFF PROCEEDINGS ON COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Notice To Respondent: After the filing of a verified complaint, a true
copy shall be served within twenty (20) days by personal service, certified
mail, or overnight mail with tracking to ensure service, on the person against
whom the complaint is filed.
   B.   Screening: The director shall review each complaint and is authorized
to administratively close a case when the city manager finds any of the
following:
      1.   Lack of jurisdiction.
      2.   Minimal impact on civil rights in the community.
      3.   Further processing is not warranted.
   C.   Investigation By Staff; Probable Cause Determination By Administrative
Law Judge: An authorized member of the commission shall make a prompt
investigation and shall issue a recommendation to an administrative law judge
under the jurisdiction of the commission, who shall then issue a determination
of probable cause or no probable cause.
      1.   For purposes of this chapter, an administrative law judge issuing a
determination of probable cause or no probable cause under this section shall
be exempt from section 17A.17 of the code of Iowa.
      2.   If the administrative law judge concurs with the investigating
official that probable cause exists regarding the allegations of the complaint,
the staff of the commission shall promptly endeavor to eliminate the
discriminatory or unfair practice by conference, conciliation, and persuasion.
If the administrative law judge finds that no probable cause exists, the
administrative law judge shall issue a final order dismissing the complaint and
the commission shall promptly mail a copy to the complainant and to the
respondent by certified mail.
A finding of probable cause shall not be introduced into evidence in an action
brought under section
8-4-7 of this chapter.
   D.   Conciliation Conference And Persuasion Procedures: The commission staff
must endeavor to eliminate the discriminatory or unfair practice by
conciliation conference and persuasion for a period of thirty (30) days
following the initial conciliation meeting between the respondent and the
commission staff after a finding of probable cause. After the expiration of
thirty (30) days, the city manager may order the conciliation conference and
persuasion procedure provided in this section to be bypassed when the city
manager determines the procedure is unworkable by reason of past patterns and
practices of the respondent or a statement by the respondent that the
respondent is unwilling to continue with the conciliation. Upon the bypassing
of conciliation, the city manager shall state in writing the reasons for
bypassing. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-4-5: COMMISSION PROCEEDINGS UPON FAILURE TO REACH SETTLEMENT BY CONCILIATION:
   A.   Notice Of Hearing: When the city manager is satisfied that further
endeavor to settle a complaint by conference, conciliation, and persuasion is
unworkable and should be bypassed and the thirty (30) day period provided for
in section
8-4-4 of this chapter has expired without agreement, the city manager, with the
approval of a commissioner, shall issue and cause to be served a written
notice:
      1.   Specifying the charges in the complaint as they may have been
amended and the reasons for bypassing further conciliation.
      2.   Requiring the respondent to answer the charges of the complaint at a
hearing before the commission, a commissioner, or a person designated by the
commission to conduct the hearing, hereafter referred to as the administrative
law judge.
      3.   Specifying a time and place.
   B.   Participation Of Commission Personnel: The case in support of such
complaint shall be presented at the hearing by one of the commission's
attorneys or agents. The investigating official shall not participate in the
hearing except as a witness, nor shall the official participate in the
deliberations of the commission in such case.
   C.   Conduct Of Hearing: The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 17A of the code of Iowa for contested cases. The
burden of proof in such a hearing shall be on the commission.
   D.   Proposed Order By Hearing Panel Or Judge: In the case of a proposed
order by a hearing panel or administrative law judge, the commission may review
such proposed order within sixty (60) days. If the commission fails to review
such proposed order within sixty (60) days, the proposed order shall become the
final order of the commission. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-4-6: COMMISSION ORDERS:
   A.   Upon Finding Of Discriminatory, Unfair Practice: If, upon taking into
consideration all of the evidence at a hearing, the commission determines that
the respondent has engaged in a discriminatory or unfair practice, the
commission shall state its findings of fact and conclusions of law and shall
issue an order requiring the respondent to cease and desist from the
discriminatory or unfair practice and to take the necessary remedial action as
in the judgment of the commission will carry out the purposes of this chapter.
A copy of the order shall be delivered to the respondent, the complainant, and
to any other public officers and persons as the commission deems proper.
      1.   Remedial Actions: For the purposes of this subsection and pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter, remedial action includes, but is not limited
to, the following:
         a.   Hiring, reinstatement, or upgrading of employees with or without
pay. Interim earned income and unemployment compensation shall operate to
reduce the pay otherwise allowable.
         b.   Admission or restoration of individuals to a labor organization,
admission to or participation in a guidance program, apprenticeship training
program, on the job training program, or other occupational training or
retraining program with the utilization of objective criteria in the admission
of individuals to such programs.
         c.   Admission of individuals to a public accommodation or an
education institution.
         d.   Sale, exchange, lease, rental, assignment, or sublease of real
property to an individual.
         e.   Extension to all individuals of the full and equal enjoyment of
the advantages, facilities, privileges, and services of the respondent denied
to the complainant because of the discriminatory or unfair practice.
         f.   Reporting as to the manner of compliance.
         g.   Posting notices in conspicuous places in the respondent's place
of business in form prescribed by the commission and inclusion of notices in
advertising material.
         h.   Payment to the complainant of damages for an injury caused by the
discriminatory or unfair practice, which damages shall include, but are not
limited to, damages and reasonable attorney fees.
         i.   Reimbursement to the commission for contested case costs.
      2.   Requirements To Cease And Desist Certifications To Licensing And
Contracting Agencies: In addition to the remedies provided in the preceding
provisions of this section, the commission may issue an order requiring the
respondent to cease and desist from the discriminatory or unfair practice and
may take such affirmative action as in the judgment of the commission will
carry out the purposes of this chapter as follows:
         a.   In the case of a respondent operating by virtue of a license
issued by the state or a political subdivision or agency, if the commission,
upon notice to the respondent with an opportunity to be heard, determines that
the respondent has engaged in a discriminatory or unfair practice and that the
practice was authorized, requested, commanded, performed, or knowingly or
recklessly tolerated by the board of directors of the respondent or by an
officer or executive agent acting within the scope of such officer's or
executive agent's employment, the commission shall so certify to the licensing
agency. Unless the commission finding of a discriminatory or unfair practice is
reversed in the course of judicial review, the finding of discrimination is
binding on the licensing agency.
         b.   In the case of a respondent who is found by the commission to
have engaged in a discriminatory or unfair practice in the course of performing
under a contract or subcontract with the state or political subdivision or
agency, if the practice was authorized, requested, commanded, performed, or
knowingly or recklessly tolerated by the board of directors of the respondent
or by an officer or executive agent acting within the scope of such officer's
or executive agent's employment, the commission shall so certify to the
contracting agency. Unless the commission's finding of a discriminatory or
unfair practice is reversed in the course of judicial review, the finding of
discrimination is binding on the contracting agency.
   B.   Upon Hearing Finding Of No Discriminatory, Unfair Practice: If, upon
taking into consideration all of the evidence at a hearing, the commission
finds that a respondent has not engaged in any such discriminatory or unfair
practice, the commission shall issue an order denying relief and stating the
findings of fact and conclusions of the commission and shall cause a copy of
the order dismissing the complaint to be served by regular mail on the
complainant and the respondent.
   C.   Upon Conciliation Agreements:
      1.   The terms of a conciliation agreement reached with the respondent
may require the respondent to refrain in the future from committing
discriminatory or unfair practices of the type stated in the agreement, to take
remedial action as in the judgment of the commission will carry out the
purposes of this code, and to consent to the entry in an appropriate district
court of a consent decree embodying the terms of the conciliation agreement.
Violation of such a consent decree may be punished by contempt by the court in
which it is filed upon a showing by the commission of the violation at any time
within six (6) months of its occurrence. In all cases where a conciliation
agreement is entered into, the commission shall issue an order stating its
terms and furnish a copy of the order to the complainant, the respondent, and
such other persons as the commission deems proper.
      2.   At any time, in its discretion, the commission may investigate
whether the terms of the agreement are being complied with by the respondent.
Upon a finding that the terms of the conciliation agreement are not being
complied with by the respondent, the commission shall take appropriate action
to assure compliance. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-4-7: RELEASE FROM ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS; ALTERNATIVE JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS
UPON COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Administrative Release: A person claiming to be aggrieved by an unfair
or discriminatory practice must initially seek an administrative relief by
filing a complaint with the commission in accordance with section
8-4-1 of this chapter. A complainant, after the proper filing of a complaint
with the commission, may subsequently commence an action for relief in the
district court if all of the following conditions have been satisfied:
      1.   The complainant has timely filed the complaint with the commission
as provided in section
8-4-3 of this chapter.
      2.   The complaint has been on file with the commission at least sixty
(60) days and the commission has issued a release to the complainant pursuant
to this section.
      3.   The complainant has requested an administrative release from the
Iowa civil rights commission via the Dubuque human rights commission.
      4.   The complainant has received an administrative release from the Iowa
civil rights commission.
   B.   Screening Of Complaint: It is the legislative intent of this section
that every complaint be at least preliminarily screened during the first sixty
(60) days. This subsection does not authorize administrative closures if an
investigation is warranted. (Ord. 37-14, 6-2-2014)
8-4-8: PROVISIONAL REMEDIES:
If, any time after the filing of a complaint, it shall appear to the commission
that there is reason to believe that the party charged has violated this
chapter and there is reason to believe that the person charged is about to
commit acts which would make impossible compliance with an order of the
commission to alleviate the grievance, or it appears that a complainant may
suffer irreparable injury as a result of alleged violation, the commission's
attorney may seek a temporary injunction restraining the party charged from
doing these acts pending completion of the proceedings under this chapter. A
temporary injunction may be issued only after the respondent has been notified
and afforded the opportunity to be heard, except that an ex parte temporary
injunction may be issued when the complainant alleges housing discrimination.
(Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-4-9: JUDICIAL REVIEW; ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS:
   A.   Filing Petition For Judicial Review: Judicial review of the actions of
the commission may be sought in accordance with the terms of the Iowa
administrative procedure act 1 . Notwithstanding the terms of such act,
petition for judicial review may be filed in the district court in which an
enforcement proceeding under subsection B of this section may be brought. For
purposes of the time limit for filing a petition for judicial review under the
Iowa administrative procedure act, the issuance of a final decision of the
commission under this chapter occurs on the date notice of the decision is
mailed by regular mail to the parties. Notwithstanding the time limit provided
in section 17A.19, subsection 3 of the code of Iowa, a petition for judicial
review of no probable cause decisions and other final agency actions which are
not of general applicability must be filed within thirty (30) days of the
issuance of the final agency action.
   B.   Order For Enforcement: The commission may obtain an order for the
enforcement of commission orders in a proceeding as provided in this section.
Such an enforcement proceeding shall be brought in the district court of the
district in the county in which the alleged discriminatory or unfair practice
which is the subject of the commission's order was committed, or in which any
respondent required in the order to cease or desist from a discriminatory or
unfair practice or take other affirmative action, resides or transacts
business.
   C.   Transcript Of Record Of Hearing Filed With Court: Such an enforcement
proceeding shall be initiated by the filing of a petition in such court and the
service of a copy thereof upon the respondent. Thereupon, the commission shall
file with the court a transcript of the record of the hearing before it. The
court shall have power to grant such temporary relief or restraining order as
it deems just and proper, and to make and enter upon the pleadings, testimony,
and proceedings set forth in such transcript an order enforcing, modifying, and
enforcing as so modified, or setting aside the order of the commission, in
whole or in part.
   D.   Consideration Of Objection: An objection that has not been urged before
the commission shall not be considered by the court in an enforcement
proceeding unless the failure or neglect to urge such objection shall be
excused because of extraordinary circumstances.
   E.   Remission Of Case To Commission: Any party to the enforcement
proceeding may move the court to remit the case to the commission in the
interests of justice for the purposes of adducing additional specified and
material evidence and seeking findings thereof, provided such party shall show
reasonable grounds for the failure to adduce such evidence before the
commission.
   F.   Determination Under State Statute: In the enforcement proceeding, the
court shall determine its order on the same basis as it would in a proceeding
reviewing commission action under section 17A.19 of the code of Iowa.
   G.   Availability Of Testimony: The commission's copy of the testimony shall
be available to all parties for examination at all reasonable times, without
cost, and for the purpose of judicial review of the commission's orders.
   H.   Commission Attorney Appearance In Court: The commission may appear in
court by its own attorney.
   I.   Expeditious Hearing On Petitions: Petitions filed under this section
shall be heard expeditiously and determined upon the transcript filed without
requirement for hearing.
   J.   Failure To Obtain Judicial Review: If no proceeding to obtain judicial
review is instituted within thirty (30) days from the service of an order of
the commission under section
8-4-6 of this chapter, the commission may obtain an order of the court for the
enforcement of such order upon showing that respondent is subject to the
jurisdiction of the commission and resides or transacts business within the
county in which the petition for enforcement is brought. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. IC ch. 17A.
8-4-10: RULE OF CONSTRUCTION:
This chapter shall be construed liberally to effectuate its purpose. (Ord. 18-
09, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 5
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Prohibitions
8-5-3: Exemptions
8-5-4: Discrimination In Residential Real Estate Related Transactions
8-5-5: Discrimination In Provision Of Brokerage Services
8-5-6: Administrative Enforcement; Preliminary Matters
8-5-7: Probable Cause Determination And Effect
8-5-8: Subpoenas; Giving Of Evidence
8-5-9: Enforcement By Commission
8-5-10: Review By Commission; Service Of Final Order
8-5-11: Judicial Review
8-5-12: Enforcement By Private Persons
8-5-13: Enforcement By City Attorney's Office
8-5-14: Cooperation With State And Federal Agencies
8-5-15: Interference, Coercion Or Intimidation; Enforcement By Civil Action
8-5-16: Violations; Bodily Injury; Death; Penalties
8-5-17: Disclaimer Of Preemptive Effect
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
AGGRIEVED PERSON: Any person who:
   A.   Claims to have been injured by discriminatory housing practice.
   B.   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
COMPLAINANT: The person who files a complaint under section
8-5-6 of this chapter.
CONCILIATION: The attempted resolution of issues raised by a complaint, or by
the investigation of such complaint, through informal negotiations involving
the aggrieved person, the respondent, and the commission.
CONCILIATION AGREEMENT: A written agreement setting forth the resolution of the
issues in conciliation.
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under section
8-5-2,
8-5-4, or
8-5-5 of this chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
FAMILY: A single individual.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, partnership, association, labor
organization, legal representative, mutual company, joint stock company, trust,
unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustee in cases under title 11 of the
United States code, receiver, fiduciary, or any other legal entity.
PREVAILING PARTY: The same as such term has in section 722 of the revised
statutes of the United States (42 USC 1988).
RESPONDENT: A. The person or other entity accused in a complaint of an unfair
housing practice.
   B.   Any other person or entity identified in the course of investigation
and notified as required with respect to respondents so identified under
subsection
8-5-6A of this chapter.
SECRETARY: The U.S. secretary of housing and urban development.
STATE: The state of Iowa and any of its political subdivisions.
TO RENT: To lease, sublease, let, and otherwise grant for consideration the
right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-5-2: PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be unlawful:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status, national origin, creed, age, disability, sexual orientation, or gender
identity.
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provisions of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, national origin, creed, age, disability, sexual orientation,
or gender identity.
   C.   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin, creed, age,
disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity, or an intention to make any
such preference, limitation, or discrimination.
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, national origin, creed, age, disability, sexual orientation,
or gender identity that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   E.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or disabled persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, national origin, creed, age, disability, sexual
orientation, or gender identity.
   F.   1.   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         a.   That buyer or renter.
         b.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented, or made available.
         c.   Any person associated with that buyer or renter.
      2.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provisions of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
         a.   That person.
         b.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented, or made available.
         c.   Any person associated with that person.
      3.   For purposes of this subsection, discrimination includes:
         a.   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter, agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the
condition that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear
excepted.
         b.   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling.
         c.   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after March 13, 1991, a failure to design
and construct those dwellings in such a manner that:
            (1)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons.
            (2)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs.
            (3)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
   (A)   An accessible route into and through the dwelling.
   (B)   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations.
   (C)   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation of grab
bars.
   (D)   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a wheelchair
can maneuver about the space.
      4.   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American
national standard for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically disabled persons (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of subsection F3c(3) of this section.
      5.   As used in this subsection, the term "covered multi-family
dwellings" means:
         a.   Buildings consisting of four (4) or more units if such buildings
have one or more elevators.
         b.   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four (4) or
more units.
      6.   Nothing in this subsection requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009;
amd. Ord. 30-25, 7-14-2025)
8-5-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Exemptions Enumerated: Nothing in section
8-5-2 of this chapter, other than subsection
8-5-2C of this chapter, shall apply to:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that:
         a.   The private individual owner does not own more than three (3)
such single-family houses at any one time.
         b.   In the sale of any single-family house, the private individual
owner does not reside in, nor is the most recent resident of such house prior
to such sale; the exemption granted by this subsection shall apply to only one
such sale within a twenty four (24) month period.
         c.   The bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on the owner's behalf, under express of
voluntary agreement, title to, or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of more than three (3) such single-family houses at one
time.
         d.   There is no utilization in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent,
salesperson, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker,
agent, salesperson, or person.
         e.   There is no publication, posting, or mailing, after notice, of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection
8-5-2C of this chapter. Nothing in this subsection prohibits the utilization of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      2.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   B.   Selling Or Renting Dwellings: For the purposes of subsection A of this
section, a person shall be deemed to be in the business of selling or renting
dwellings if:
      1.   The person has, within the preceding twelve (12) months,
participated as principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein.
      2.   The person has, within the preceding twelve (12) months,
participated as agent, other than in the sale of the person's own personal
residence, in providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services
in two (2) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or
any interest therein.
      3.   The person is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families.
   C.   Religious Or Nonprofit Organizations: Nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit a religious organization, association, or society or any nonprofit
institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, from
limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or from
giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such religion is
restricted on account of race, color, sex, familial status, national origin,
creed, age, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Nor shall
anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodging which it owns or operates for other occupancy of such lodging to its
members or from giving preference to its members.
   D.   Applicability Of Housing Regulations; Housing For Older Persons:
      1.   Nothing in this chapter limits the applicability of title 14,
chapter 1 of this code regarding the maximum number of occupants permitted to
occupy a dwelling. Nor does any provision in this chapter regarding familial
status or age apply with respect to housing for older persons.
      2.   As used in this section, "housing for older persons" means housing:
         a.   Provided under any state or federal program that the secretary
determines is specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons, as
defined in the state or federal program.
         b.   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons sixty two (62)
years of age or older.
         c.   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person fifty
five (55) years of age or older per unit. In determining whether housing
qualifies as housing for older persons under this subsection, the commission
shall develop regulations which require at least the following factors:
            (1)   That at least eighty percent (80%) of the units are occupied
by at least one person fifty five (55) years of age or older per unit.
            (2)   The publication of and adherence to policies and procedures
which demonstrate an intent by the owner or manager to provide housing for
persons fifty five (55) years of age or older.
      3.   Housing shall not fail to meet the requirements for housing for
older persons by reason of:
         a.   Persons residing in such housing as of the date of enactment of
this chapter who do not meet the age requirements of subsection D2b or D2c of
this section; provided, that new occupants of such housing meet the age
requirements of subsection D2b or D2c of this section.
         b.   Unoccupied units; provided, that such units are reserved for
occupancy by persons who meet the age requirements of subsection D2b or D2c of
this section.
      4.   Nothing in this chapter prohibits conduct against a person because
such person has been convicted by any court of competent jurisdiction of the
illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance as defined in the
controlled substances act (21 USC 802) or a violation of the controlled
substances chapter of the Iowa Code 1 . (Ord. 31-16, 6-20-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. IC ch. 124.
8-5-4: DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTIONS:
   A.   In General: It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose
business includes engaging in residential real estate related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, national origin, creed, age, disability, sexual
orientation, or gender identity.
   B.   Definition: As used in this section, the term "residential real estate
related transaction" means any of the following:
      1.   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         a.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling.
         b.   Secured by residential real estate.
      2.   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   C.   Appraisal Exemption: Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged
in the business of furnishing appraisals of real property to take into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
national origin, creed, age, disability, sexual orientation, or gender
identity. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-5-5: DISCRIMINATION IN PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing services, real estate brokers'
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against such
person in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation,
on account of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin,
creed, age, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity. (Ord. 18-09, 4-
6-2009)
8-5-6: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT; PRELIMINARY MATTERS:
   A.   Complaints And Answers:
      1.   An aggrieved person may, not later than three hundred (300) days
after an alleged discriminatory housing practice has occurred or terminated,
file a complaint with the commission alleging such discriminatory housing
practice. The commission, on the commission's own initiative, a commissioner,
or the city attorney's office may also file such a complaint.
      2.   Such complaints shall be in writing and shall contain such
information and be in such form as the commission requires.
      3.   The commission may also investigate housing practices to determine
whether a complaint should be brought under this section.
      4.   Upon the filing of such a complaint:
         a.   The commission shall serve notice upon the aggrieved person
acknowledging such filing and advising the aggrieved person of the time limits
and choice of forums provided under this chapter;
         b.   The commission shall, not later than ten (10) days after such
filing or the identification of an additional respondent under subsection A7 of
this section, serve on the respondent a notice identifying the alleged
discriminatory housing practice and advising such respondent of the procedural
rights and obligations of respondents under this chapter, together with a copy
of the original complaint;
         c.   Each respondent may file, not later than ten (10) days after
receipt of notice from the commission, an answer to such complaint; and
         d.   The commission shall make an investigation of the alleged
discriminatory housing practice and complete such investigation within one
hundred (100) days after the filing of the complaint unless it is impracticable
to do so.
      5.   If the commission is unable to complete the investigation within one
hundred (100) days after the filing of the complaint, the commission shall
notify the complainant and respondent in writing of the reasons for not doing
so.
      6.   Complaints and answers shall be under oath or affirmation and may be
reasonably and fairly amended at any time.
      7.   A person who is not named as a respondent in a complaint, but who is
identified as a respondent in the course of investigation, may be joined as an
additional or substitute respondent upon written notice. Such notice, in
addition to meeting the requirements of subsection A of this section, shall
explain the basis for the commission's belief that the person to whom the
notice is addressed is properly joined as a respondent.
   B.   Investigative Report And Conciliation:
      1.   Beginning with the filing of a complaint, the commission shall, to
the extent feasible, engage in conciliation with respect to such complaint.
      2.   A conciliation agreement arising out of such conciliation shall be
an agreement between the respondent and the complainant and shall be subject to
approval by the commission.
      3.   A conciliation agreement may provide for binding arbitration of the
dispute arising from the complaint. Any such arbitration that results from a
conciliation agreement may award appropriate relief, including monetary relief.
      4.   Each conciliation agreement shall be made public unless the
complainant and respondent otherwise agree and the commission determines that
disclosure is not required to further the purposes of this chapter.
      5.   a. At the end of each investigation under this section, the
commission shall prepare a final investigative report containing:
            (1)   The names and dates of contacts with witnesses.
            (2)   A summary and the dates of correspondence and other contacts
with the aggrieved person and the respondent.
            (3)   A summary description of other pertinent records.
            (4)   A summary of witness statements.
            (5)   Answers to interrogatories.
         b.   A final report under this subsection may be amended if additional
evidence is later discovered.
   C.   Failure To Comply With Conciliation Agreement: Whenever the commission
has probable cause to believe that a respondent has breached a conciliation
agreement, the commission shall refer the matter to the city attorney's office
with a recommendation that a civil action be filed for the enforcement of such
agreement.
   D.   Prohibitions And Requirements With Respect To Disclosure Of
Information:
      1.   Nothing said or done in the course of conciliation under this
chapter may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under
this chapter without the written consent of the persons concerned.
      2.   Notwithstanding subsection D1 of this section, the commission shall
make available to the aggrieved person and the respondent, at any time, upon
request following completion of the commission's investigation, information
derived from an investigation and any final investigative report relating to
that investigation.
   E.   Prompt Judicial Action: If the commission concludes at any time
following the filing of a complaint that prompt judicial action is necessary to
carry out the purposes of this chapter, the commission may authorize a civil
action for appropriate temporary or preliminary relief pending final
disposition of the complaint under this section. Upon receipt of such
authorization, the city attorney's office shall promptly commence and maintain
such an action. Any temporary restraining order or other order granting
preliminary or temporary relief shall be issued in accordance with the Iowa
rules of civil procedure. The commencement of a civil action under this
subsection does not affect the initiation of continuation of administrative
proceedings under this chapter. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-5-7: PROBABLE CAUSE DETERMINATION AND EFFECT:
   A.   Issuance Of Determination: If the commission determines that probable
cause exists to believe that a discriminatory housing or real estate practice
has occurred or is about to occur, the commission shall immediately issue a
determination unless the commission determines that the legality of a zoning or
land use law or ordinance is involved as provided in subsection D of this
section.
   B.   Conditions Of Determination: A cause determination must:
      1.   Consist of a short and plain statement of the facts on which the
commission has found probable cause to believe that a discriminatory housing or
real estate practice has occurred or is about to occur.
      2.   Be based on the final investigative report.
      3.   Need not be limited to the facts or grounds alleged in the
complaint.
   C.   Distribution Of Copies Of Determination: Not later than twenty (20)
days after the commission issues a cause determination, the commission shall
send a copy of the determination with information as to how to make an election
under section
8-5-9 of this chapter to all of the following persons:
      1.   Each respondent.
      2.   Each aggrieved person on whose behalf the complaint was filed.
   D.   Land Use Issues: If the commission determines that the matter involves
the legality of a state or local zoning or other land use ordinance, the
commission shall not issue a determination and shall immediately refer the
matter to the city attorney's office for appropriate action.
   E.   Dismissal Of Complaint: If the commission determines that no probable
cause exists to believe that a discriminatory housing or real estate practice
has occurred or is about to occur, the commission shall promptly dismiss the
complaint. The commission shall make public disclosure of each dismissal under
this chapter.
   F.   Trial Or Civil Action: The commission shall not issue a determination
under this subsection regarding an alleged discriminatory housing or real
estate practice after the beginning of the trial of a civil action commenced by
the aggrieved party under federal or state law seeking relief with respect to
the discriminatory housing or real estate practice. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-5-8: SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE:
   A.   In General: The commission may issue subpoenas and order discovery in
aid of investigations and hearings under this chapter. Such subpoenas and
discovery may be ordered to the same extent and subject to the same limitations
as would apply for county attorney subpoenas.
   B.   Criminal Penalties:
      1.   Any person who wilfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or
to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other
evidence, if it is in such person's power to do so, in obedience to a subpoena
or other lawful order under subsection A of this section, shall be referred to
the city attorney's office or the county attorney's office for prosecution.
      2.   Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead another person in any
proceeding under this chapter, does the following shall be referred to the city
attorney's office or the county attorney's office for prosecution:
         a.   Makes or causes to be made any false entry or statement of fact
in any report, account, record, or other document produced pursuant to subpoena
or other lawful order under subsection A of this section;
         b.   Wilfully neglects or fails to make or to cause to be made full,
true, and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records, or other
documents;
         c.   Wilfully mutilates, alters, or by any other means falsifies any
documentary evidence. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-5-9: ENFORCEMENT BY COMMISSION:
   A.   Election Of Judicial Determination: When a probable cause determination
has been issued, a complainant, a respondent, or an aggrieved person on whose
behalf the complaint was filed may elect to have the claims asserted in that
complaint decided in a civil action under section
8-5-12 of this chapter in lieu of a hearing under subsection F of this section.
The election must be made not later than twenty (20) days after the receipt by
the electing person of service under section
8-5-7 of this chapter, or, in the case of the commission, not later than twenty
(20) days after such service. The person making such election shall give notice
of doing so to the commission and to all other complaints and respondents to
whom the complaint relates.
   B.   Administrative Law Judge Hearing In Absence Of Election: If an election
is not made under subsection A of this section with respect to a complaint, the
commission shall provide an opportunity for a hearing on the record with
respect to the complaint issued under section
8-5-6 of this chapter. The commission shall delegate the conduct of a hearing
under this section to an administrative law judge appointed by the commission.
   C.   Rights Of Parties: At a hearing under this section, each party may
appear in person, be represented by counsel, present evidence, cross examine
witnesses, and obtain the issuance of subpoenas under section
8-5-8 of this chapter. Any aggrieved person may intervene as a party in the
proceeding. The Iowa rules of evidence apply to the presentation of evidence in
such hearing as they would in a civil action in the Iowa district court.
   D.   Expedited Discovery And Hearing:
      1.   Discovery in administrative proceedings under this section shall be
conducted as expeditiously and inexpensively as possible, consistent with the
need of all parties to obtain relevant evidence.
      2.   A hearing under this section shall be conducted as expeditiously and
inexpensively as possible, consistent with the needs and rights of the parties
to obtain a fair hearing and a complete record.
   E.   Resolution Of Charge: Any resolution of a charge before a final order
under this section shall require the consent of the aggrieved person on whose
behalf the charge is issued.
   F.   Hearings, Findings, Conclusions And Order:
      1.   The administrative law judge shall commence the hearing under this
section no later than one hundred twenty (120) days following the probable
cause determination, unless it is impracticable to do so. If the administrative
law judge is unable to commence the hearing within one hundred twenty (120)
days after the determination, the administrative law judge shall notify the
commission, the aggrieved person on whose behalf the charge was filed, and the
respondent, in writing, of the reasons for not doing so.
      2.   The administrative law judge shall make findings of fact and
conclusions of law within sixty (60) days after the end of the hearing under
this section, unless it is impracticable to do so. If the administrative law
judge is unable to make findings of fact and conclusions of law within such
period, or any succeeding sixty (60) day period thereafter, the administrative
law judge shall notify the commission, the aggrieved person on whose behalf the
charge was filed and the respondent, in writing, of the reasons for not doing
so.
      3.   If the administrative law judge finds that a respondent has engaged
or is about to engage in a discriminatory housing practice, such administrative
law judge shall promptly issue an order for such relief as may be appropriate,
which may include actual damages suffered by the aggrieved person and
injunctive or other equitable relief. Such order may, to vindicate the public
interest, assess a civil penalty against the respondent in an amount not to
exceed those established by the federal fair housing act in section 42 USC
3612.
      4.   No such order shall affect any contract, sale, encumbrance, or lease
consummated before the issuance of such order and involving a bona fide
purchaser, encumbrancer, or tenant without actual notice of the charge filed
under this chapter.
      5.   In the case of an order with respect to a discriminatory housing
practice that occurred in the course of a business subject to licensing or
regulation by a governmental agency, the commission shall, not later than
thirty (30) days after the date of the issuance of such order or if such order
is judicially reviewed, thirty (30) days after such order is in substance
affirmed upon such review:
         a.   Send copies of the findings of fact, conclusion of law, and the
order to that governmental agency.
         b.   Recommend to that governmental agency appropriate disciplinary
action including, where appropriate, the suspension or revocation of the
license of the respondent.
      6.   If the administrative law judge finds that the respondent has not
engaged or is not about to engage in a discriminatory housing practice, as the
case may be, such administrative law judge shall enter an order dismissing the
charge. The commission shall make public disclosure of each such dismissal.
      7.   An administrative law judge may not continue administrative
proceedings under this section regarding any alleged discriminatory housing
practice after the beginning of the trial of a civil action commenced by the
aggrieved party under a federal or state law, seeking relief with respect to
that discriminatory housing practice. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-5-10: REVIEW BY COMMISSION; SERVICE OF FINAL ORDER:
   A.   The commission may review any finding, conclusion, or order issued
under section
8-5-9 of this chapter. Such review shall be completed not later than sixty (60)
days after the finding, conclusion, or order is so issued; otherwise the
finding, conclusion, or order becomes final.
   B.   The commission shall cause the findings of fact and conclusions of law
made with respect to any final order for relief under this section, together
with a copy of such order, to be served on each aggrieved person and each
respondent in the proceeding. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-5-11: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
   A.   Review Of Order: Any party aggrieved by a final order for relief under
this section granting or denying in whole or in part the relief sought may
obtain review of such order by filing a petition for review not later than
thirty (30) days after the order is issued in the Iowa district court pursuant
to chapter 17A, code of Iowa.
   B.   Court Enforcement Of Administrative Order Upon Petition By Commission:
      1.   The commission may petition the Iowa district court in which any
respondent resides or transacts business for the enforcement of the order of
the administrative law judge and for appropriate temporary relief or
restraining order by filing in such court a written petition praying that such
order be enforced and for appropriate temporary relief or restraining order.
      2.   The commission shall file in court with the petition the record of
the proceeding. A copy of such petition shall be forthwith transmitted by the
commission to the parties to the proceeding before the administrative law
judge.
   C.   Relief Which May Be Granted:
      1.   Upon the filing of a petition under section
8-5-6 of this chapter, the court may, pursuant to section 216.17 of the code of
Iowa:
         a.   Grant to the petitioner, or any other party, such temporary
relief, restraining order, or other order as the court deems just and proper.
         b.   Affirm, modify, or set aside, in whole or in part, the order, or
remand the order for further proceedings.
         c.   Enforce such order to the extent that such order is affirmed or
modified.
      2.   Any party to the proceeding before the administrative law judge may
intervene on appeal to the court.
      3.   No objection not made before the administrative law judge shall be
considered by the court, unless the failure or neglect to urge such objection
is excused because of extraordinary circumstances.
   D.   Court Enforcement Of Administrative Order Upon Petition Of Any Person
Entitled To Relief: After a final order of the commission, any person entitled
to relief under the order may petition for a decree enforcing the order in the
Iowa district court in Dubuque County, Iowa.
   E.   Civil Action For Enforcement When Election Is Made For Such Civil
Action:
      1.   If an election is made under subsection 8-5-7C of this chapter, the
commission shall authorize, not later than thirty (30) days after the election
is made, the city attorney's office to commence and maintain a civil action on
behalf of the aggrieved person in the Iowa district court in and for Dubuque
County seeking relief under this subsection in accordance with section 216.16A
of the code of Iowa.
      2.   Any aggrieved person with respect to the issues to be determined in
a civil action under this subsection may intervene as of right in that civil
action.
      3.   In a civil action under this subsection, if the court finds that a
discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, the court
may grant as relief any relief which a court could grant with respect to such
discriminatory housing practice in a civil action under section
8-5-12 of this chapter. Any relief so granted that would accrue to an aggrieved
person in a civil action commenced by that aggrieved person under section
8-5-12 of this chapter shall also accrue to that aggrieved person in a civil
action under this subsection. If monetary relief is sought for the benefit of
an aggrieved person who does not intervene in the civil action, the court shall
not award such relief if that aggrieved person has not complied with discovery
orders entered by the court.
   F.   Attorney Fees: In any administrative proceeding brought under this
section or any court proceeding arising therefrom or any civil action, the
administrative law judge or the court, as the case may be, in its discretion,
may allow the prevailing party, other than the commission, reasonable attorney
fees and costs. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-5-12: ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS:
   A.   Civil Action:
      1.   An aggrieved person may commence a civil action in an appropriate
United States district court or state court not later than two (2) years after
the occurrence or the termination of an alleged discriminatory housing
practice, or the breach of a conciliation agreement entered into under this
chapter, whichever occurs last, to obtain appropriate relief with respect to
such discriminatory housing practice or breach.
      2.   The computation of such two (2) year period shall not include any
time during which an administrative proceeding under this chapter was pending
with respect to a complaint or charge under this chapter based upon such
discriminatory housing practice. This subsection does not apply to actions
arising from a breach of a conciliation agreement.
   B.   Conciliation Agreement Precludes Action: An aggrieved person may
commence a civil action under this subsection whether or not a complaint has
been filed under section
8-5-6 of this chapter and without regard to the status of any such complaint,
but if the commission or the Iowa civil rights commission has obtained a
conciliation agreement with the consent of an aggrieved person, no action may
be filed under this subsection by such aggrieved person with respect to the
alleged discriminatory housing practice which forms the basis for such
complaint except for the purpose of enforcing the terms of such an agreement.
   C.   Administrative Hearing Precludes Civil Action: An aggrieved person may
not commence a civil action under this subsection with respect to an alleged
discriminatory housing practice if an administrative law judge has commenced a
hearing on the record under this chapter with respect to such charge.
   D.   Appointment Of Attorney By Court: Upon application by a person alleging
a discriminatory housing practice or a person against whom such a practice is
alleged, the court may:
      1.   Appoint an attorney for such person.
      2.   Authorize the commencement or continuation of a civil action under
subsection A of this section without the payment of fees, costs, or security if
in the opinion of the court such person is financially unable to bear the costs
of such action.
   E.   Relief Which May Be Granted:
      1.   In a civil action under subsection A of this section, if the court
finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur,
the court may award to the plaintiff actual and punitive damages and, subject
to subsection F of this section, may grant as relief, as the court deems
appropriate, any permanent or temporary injunction, temporary restraining
order, or other order, including an order enjoining the defendant from engaging
in such practice or ordering such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
      2.   In a civil action under subsection A of this section, the court, in
its discretion, may allow the prevailing party reasonable attorney fees and
costs.
   F.   Effect On Certain Sales, Encumbrances And Rentals: Relief granted under
this section shall not affect any contract, sale, encumbrance, or lease
consummated before the granting of such relief and involving a bona fide
purchaser, encumbrancer, or tenant without actual notice of the filing of a
complaint or civil action under this chapter.
   G.   Intervention By City Attorney's Office: Upon timely application, the
city attorney's office may intervene in such civil action, if the city
attorney's office certifies that the case is of general public importance. Upon
such intervention, the city attorney's office may obtain such relief as would
be available to the city attorney's office under section
8-5-13 of this chapter in a civil action to which such section applies. (Ord.
18-09, 4-6-2009; amd. Ord. 35-23, 8-7-2023)
8-5-13: ENFORCEMENT BY CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE:
   A.   Probable Cause: On the request of the commission, the city attorney's
office may file a civil action in the district court for appropriate relief if
the commission has probable cause to believe that any of the following applies:
      1.   A person is engaged in a pattern or practice of resistance to the
full enjoyment of any housing right granted by this chapter.
      2.   A person has been denied any housing right granted by this chapter
and that denial raises an issue of general public importance.
   B.   Legal Action; Enforcement: The commission may request the city
attorney's office to take appropriate legal action of a discriminatory housing
practice or to enforce a conciliation agreement.
      1.   The city attorney's office may commence a civil action in any
appropriate court for appropriate relief with respect to a discriminatory
housing practice referred to the city attorney's office.
      2.   A civil action under this subsection may be commenced no later than
the expiration of the two (2) years after the date of the occurrence of the
termination of the alleged discriminatory housing practice as provided in
section 216.16A of the code of Iowa.
      3.   The city attorney's office may commence a civil action in any
appropriate court for appropriate relief with respect to breach of a
conciliation agreement referred to the city attorney's office by the
commission.
      4.   A civil action may be commenced under this subsection no later than
the expiration of ninety (90) days after the referral of the alleged breach
under subsection 8-5-6C of this chapter.
      5.   The city attorney's office, on behalf of the commission or other
party at whose request a subpoena is issued under this chapter, may enforce
such subpoena in appropriate proceedings in the district court for the district
in which the person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or
transacts business.
      6.   Relief may be granted in civil actions under subsections A and B of
this section in accordance with section 216.17A of the code of Iowa. In a civil
action under subsection A or B of this section, the court:
         a.   May award such preventive relief, including a permanent or
temporary injunction, restraining order, or other order against the person
responsible for a violation of this chapter as is necessary to assure the full
enjoyment of the rights granted by this chapter.
         b.   May award such other relief as the court deems appropriate,
including monetary damages to the person aggrieved.
         c.   May, to vindicate the public interest, assess a civil penalty
against the respondent:
            (1)   In an amount not exceeding fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) for a first violation.
            (2)   In an amount not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) for any subsequent violation.
   C.   Attorney Fees And Costs: In a civil action under this section, the
court, in its discretion, may allow the prevailing party reasonable attorney
fees and costs.
   D.   Intervention In Civil Actions: Upon timely application, any person may
intervene in a civil action commenced by the city attorney's office under
subsection A or B of this section, which involves an alleged discriminatory
housing practice with respect to which such person is an aggrieved person or a
conciliation agreement to which such person is a party. The court may grant
such appropriate relief to any such intervening party as is authorized to be
granted to a plaintiff in a civil action under section
8-5-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-5-14: COOPERATION WITH STATE AND FEDERAL AGENCIES:
The commission may cooperate with state and federal agencies charged with the
administration of state and federal fair housing laws and, with the consent of
such agencies, utilize the services of such agencies and their employees and,
in furtherance of such cooperative efforts, the commission may enter into
written agreements with such state or federal agencies. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-5-15: INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION; ENFORCEMENT BY CIVIL ACTION:
It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of such person having
aided or encouraged any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right
granted or protected by this chapter. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-5-16: VIOLATIONS; BODILY INJURY; DEATH; PENALTIES:
Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of force
wilfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate, or interfere with the following described persons shall be referred
to the county attorney's office for prosecution:
   A.   Any person because of such person's race, religion, sex, familial
status, national origin, creed, age, disability, sexual orientation, or gender
identity and because such person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting,
financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase,
rental, financing, or occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or
participating in any service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings.
   B.   Any person because such person is or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      1.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, national origin, creed, age, disability, sexual
orientation, or gender identity in the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in subsection A of this section.
      2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   C.   Any citizen because such person is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin, creed, age,
disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity in any of the activities,
services, organizations, or facilities described in subsection A of this
section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to so participate. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
8-5-17: DISCLAIMER OF PREEMPTIVE EFFECT:
Nothing in this chapter limits any right, procedure, or remedy available under
the federal or state constitution. (Ord. 18-09, 4-6-2009)
TITLE 9
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-321.1: Definitions
9-1-321.2: Applicability Of Title
9-1-321.1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this title shall, for the purpose
of this title, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE: A motor vehicle designed to travel on three (3) or more
wheels and designed primarily for off road use. "All-terrain vehicle" includes
off road utility vehicles as defined in Iowa Code section 321I.1, but does not
include farm tractors or equipment, construction equipment, forestry vehicles,
or lawn and grounds maintenance vehicles when used for farming, construction,
commercial deliveries, forestry, lawn and grounds maintenance, or towing for
utility as opposed to recreational uses.
ALLEY: A thoroughfare laid out, established, and platted as such by constituted
authority.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the fire department, police vehicles,
ambulances, and emergency vehicles owned by the United States, this state, or
any subdivision of this state or any municipality of the state, and such
privately owned ambulances, fire, rescue, or disaster vehicles as are
designated or authorized by the director.
BICYCLE:
   A.    A device having two (2) or three (3) wheels and having at least one
(1) saddle or seat for the use of a rider which is propelled by human power; or
   B.   A low-speed electric bicycle.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of three
hundred feet (300') or more is occupied by buildings in use for business.
CHAUFFEUR: Any person who operates a motor vehicle, including a school bus, in
the transportation of persons for wages, compensation, or hire, or a person who
operates a truck tractor, road tractor, or any motor truck which is required to
be registered at a gross weight classification exceeding five (5) tons, or any
such motor vehicle exempt from registration which would be within the gross
weight classification if not so exempt. A person is not a chauffeur when the
operation of the motor vehicle, other than a truck tractor, by the owner or
operator is occasional and merely incidental to the owner's or operator's
principal business. A person is not a chauffeur when the operation is by a
volunteer firefighter operating fire apparatus, or is by a volunteer ambulance
or rescue squad attendant operating ambulance or rescue squad apparatus. If a
volunteer firefighter, ambulance, or rescue squad operator receives nominal
compensation not based upon the value of the services performed, the
firefighter or operator shall be considered to be receiving no compensation and
classified as a volunteer. A farmer or the farmer's hired help is not a
chauffeur when operating a truck, other than a truck tractor, owned by the
farmer and used exclusively in connection with the transportation of the
farmer's own products or property.
CITY MANAGER: The official having jurisdiction to post signs or direct the
placement of signs consistent with this title includes the city manager's
designee.
CROSSWALK: That portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at intersections,
or any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by
lines or other markings on the surface.
CURB: The lateral line of a sidewalk nearest the surface of the street upon
which vehicles travel.
DEPARTMENT: The state department of transportation.
DIRECTOR: The director of the state department of transportation or the
director's designee.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE: A device, powered by an electric
propulsion system designed to transport one person, with a maximum speed on a
paved level surface of less than twenty five (25) miles per hour with an
average power of seven hundred fifty (750) watts or one horsepower.
EXPLOSIVE: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that on ignition by fire, friction, concussion,
percussion, or detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause such
a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects or of
destroying life and limb.
FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Any liquid which has a flashpoint of seventy degrees
Fahrenheit (70°F) or less, as determined by a Tagliabue or equivalent closed
cup test.
GROSS WEIGHT: The empty weight of a vehicle, plus the maximum load to be
carried thereon. The maximum load to be carried by a passenger carrying vehicle
shall be determined by multiplying one hundred fifty (150) pounds by the number
of passenger seats carried by such vehicle.
HOLIDAYS: Shall be January 1, Memorial Day, July 4, the first Monday in
September, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving Day,
December 24, December 25, December 31, and the following Monday whenever any of
the foregoing named holidays fall on a Sunday.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE: A device having a saddle or seat for the use of a
rider, two (2) or three (3) wheels equipped with fully operable pedals, and an
electric motor of less than seven hundred fifty (750) watts that meets the
requirements of one of the following classes:
   Class 1 low-speed electric bicycle: A low-speed electric bicycle equipped
with a motor that may be used to provide assistance only when the rider is
pedaling and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed
of twenty (20) miles per hour or more.
   Class 2 low-speed electric bicycle: A low-speed electric bicycle equipped
with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the bicycle and that is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of twenty (20)
miles per hour or more.
   Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle: A low-speed electric bicycle equipped
with a motor that may be used to provide assistance only when the rider is
pedaling and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed
of twenty-eight (28) miles per hour or more.
METAL TIRE: Every tire, the surface of which in contact with the highway, is
wholly or partly of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle without motive power used or so manufactured or
constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets
and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed as will permit the
vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or more persons.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle or seat for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground including a motor scooter but excluding a tractor an autocycle, a
low-speed electric bicycle, and a motorized bicycle.
MOTORIZED BICYCLE OR MOTOR BICYCLE: A motor vehicle having a saddle or seat for
the use of a rider, designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in
contact with the ground, and not capable of operating at a speed in excess of
thirty-nine (39) miles per hour on level ground unassisted by human power, but
excluding a low-speed electric bicycle.
MOTOR TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed primarily for carrying livestock,
merchandise, freight of any kind, or over nine (9) persons as passengers.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled but not including vehicles
known as trackless trolleys which are propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires but not operated upon rails. The terms "car", "new car",
"used car", or "automobile" shall be synonymous with the term "motor vehicle".
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle or seat for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground including a motor scooter but excluding a tractor and a motorized
bicycle.
MOTORIZED BICYCLE OR MOTOR BICYCLE: A motor vehicle having a saddle or a seat
for the use of a rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels
in contact with the ground, and not capable of operating at a speed in excess
of thirty nine (39) miles per hour on level ground unassisted by human power.
OFFICIAL PARKING SIGNS: Any such signs as have been erected by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating
parking.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings, and devices not
inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of a public body or
official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding
traffic.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
OPERATOR: Every person, other than a chauffeur, who is in actual physical
control of a motor vehicle upon a highway.
OWNER: A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of a security agreement with an immediate right of
possession vested in the debtor, then such debtor shall be deemed the owner for
the purpose of this title.
PARK: The stopping or standing of a motor vehicle either attended or unattended
by a driver or occupant.
PARKING LOT: A lot in the city where motor vehicles are parked for a fee.
PARKING METER: Any mechanical device located upon a public street or sidewalk
in a place regularly designated as a parking zone. This device shall record a
certain number of minutes by the use of a clock mechanism determining the
number of minutes for which parking privileges may be extended to any person
depositing the coin or coins required.
PEACE OFFICER: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations, in addition to its meaning
in section 801.4, code of Iowa.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PNEUMATIC TIRE: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner but not by other persons.
RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL: Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of a
public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or of the approach of a railroad train.
RAILROAD TRAIN: An engine or locomotive, with or without cars coupled thereto,
operated upon rails.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory within a city or town contiguous to and
including a highway, not comprising a business, suburban, or school district,
where forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage on such highway for a
distance of three hundred feet (300') or more is occupied by dwellings or by
dwellings and buildings in use for residence.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the highway.
ROAD WORK ZONE: The portion of a highway which is identified by posted or
moving signs at the site of construction, maintenance, survey, or utility work.
The zone starts upon meeting the first sign identifying the zone and continues
until a posted or moving sign indicates that the work zone has ended.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
SCHOOL DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway for a
distance of two hundred feet (200') in either direction from a schoolhouse in a
city.
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle. Wherever the word "trailer" is used in this title, the same shall be
construed to also include "semitrailer". A "semitrailer" shall be considered in
this title separately from its power unit.
SIDEWALK: That portion of street between the curb lines or the lateral lines of
a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of pedestrians.
SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient materials which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular traffic.
SUBURBAN DISTRICT: All other parts of a city or town not included in the
business, school, or residence districts.
THROUGH (OR THRU) STREET: Every street or portion thereof at the entrances to
which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to stop
before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are erected as
provided by law or such entrances are controlled by a peace officer or traffic
control signal. The term "arterial" shall be synonymous with "through" or
"thru" when applied to streets of this city.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other conveyances
either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of travel.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
U-TURN: The turning from one side to the other on a street and proceeding in a
reverse direction.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway. "Vehicle" does not include:
   A.   Any device moved by human power, including a low-speed electric
bicycle.
   B.   Any device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   C.   Any integral part of a truck-tractor or road tractor which is mounted
on the frame of the truck-tractor or road tractor immediately behind the cab
and which may be used to transport persons and property but which cannot be
drawn upon the highway by the truck-tractor or another motor vehicle.
   D.   Any steering axle, dolly, auxiliary axle, or other integral part of
another vehicle which in and of itself is incapable of commercially
transporting any person or property but is used primarily to support another
vehicle. (Ord. 43-08, 6-16-2008; amd. Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008; Ord. 39-09, 8-3-
2009; Ord. 53-09, 11-2-2009; Ord. 33-10, 6-21-2010, eff. 7-1-2010; Ord. 65-10,
12-20-2010; Ord. 51-12, 9-17-2012; Ord. 56-14, 9-2-2014; Ord. 44-21, - -2021)
9-1-321.2: APPLICABILITY OF TITLE:
   A.   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon
the streets shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the
United States, this state, or any county, city, town, district, or any other
political subdivision of the state, subject to specific exceptions as are set
forth in the laws of Iowa and the ordinances of the city with reference to
authorized emergency vehicles.
   B.   This title, except section
9-7-321.277 of this title, does not apply to persons and motor vehicles and
other equipment while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway
officially closed to traffic but does apply to such persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from such work. The provisions of section
9-7-321.294 and subsection
9-7-321.297B of this title do not apply to road workers operating maintenance
equipment owned by or under lease to any state or local authority while engaged
in road maintenance, road blading, snow and ice control and removal, and
granular resurfacing work on a highway, whether or not the highway is closed to
traffic. A chauffeur's license shall not be required for a person to operate
road construction and maintenance equipment while engaged in road construction
and maintenance work, including the movement of the road construction and
maintenance equipment to and from the work site under its own power.
   C.   Every person riding a bicycle or animal, or driving any animal drawing
a vehicle upon a street, shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle except those provisions which by their
nature can have no application.
   D.   The provisions of this title relating to the operation of vehicles
refers exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways
except:
      1.   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section.
      2.   The provisions of chapter 3 and section
9-7-321.277 of this title shall apply upon the streets and highways and
elsewhere throughout the city. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 2
REGISTRATION, CERTIFICATION OF TITLE, AND PROOF OF SECURITY AGAINST FINANCIAL
LIABILITY
SECTION:
9-2-321.17: Registration Required
9-2-321.18 – 9-2-321.31: Reserved
9-2-321.32: Registration Card Carried In Vehicle
9-2-321.33 – 9-2-321.36: Reserved
9-2-321.37: Display Of Plates
9-2-321.38: Method Of Attaching Plates
9-2-321.39 – 9-2-321.77: Reserved
9-2-321.17: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It is a misdemeanor for any person to drive or move or for an owner knowingly
to permit to be driven or moved upon any street or highway any vehicle of a
type required to be registered according to such laws. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-2-321.18 – 9-2-321.31: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-2-321.32: REGISTRATION CARD CARRIED IN VEHICLE:
A vehicle's registration card shall at all times be carried in the vehicle to
which it refers and shall be shown to any peace officer upon the officer's
request. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-2-321.33 – 9-2-321.36: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-2-321.37: DISPLAY OF PLATES:
   A.   Registration plates issued for a motor vehicle other than a motorcycle,
motorized bicycle, or a truck tractor shall be attached to the motor vehicle,
one in the front and the other in the rear. The registration plate issued for a
motorcycle or other vehicle required to be registered hereunder shall be
attached to the rear of the vehicle. The registration plate issued for a truck
tractor shall be attached to the front of the truck tractor. The special plate
issued to a dealer shall be attached on the rear of the vehicle when operated
on the roadways of this state.
   B.   It is unlawful for the owner of a vehicle to place any frame around or
over the registration plate which does not permit full view of all numerals and
letters printed on the registration plate. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-2-321.38: METHOD OF ATTACHING PLATES:
Every registration plate shall at all times be securely fastened in a
horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent the
plate from swinging and at a height of not less than twelve inches (12") from
the ground measuring from the bottom of the plate, in a place and position to
be clearly visible, and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in
a condition to be clearly legible. An imitation plate or plates imitating or
purporting to imitate the official registration plate of any other state or
territory of the United States or of any foreign government shall not be
fastened to the vehicle. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-2-321.39 – 9-2-321.77: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 3
SPECIAL ANTITHEFT LAW
SECTION:
9-3-321.78: Vandalism
9-3-321.79 – 9-3-321.89: Reserved
9-3-321.78: VANDALISM:
   A.   Any person who either individually or in association with one or more
other persons wilfully injures or tampers with any vehicle or breaks or removes
any part or parts of or from a vehicle without the consent of the owner is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Any person who with intent to commit any malicious mischief, injury, or
other crime climbs into or upon a vehicle, whether it is in motion or at rest,
or with like intent attempts to manipulate any of the levers, starting
mechanism, brakes, or other mechanism or device of a vehicle while the same is
at rest and unattended or with like intent sets in motion any vehicle while the
same is at rest and unattended, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-3-321.79 – 9-3-321.89: RESERVED:
(Ord. 24-09, 4-20-2009)
CHAPTER 4
DRIVERS' LICENSES
SECTION:
Division 1. Generally
9-4-321.90 - 9-4-321.97: Reserved
9-4-321.98: Operation Without Registration
9-4-321.99 - 9-4-321.173: Reserved
9-4-321.174: Operator's License; Operation Of Commercial Motor Vehicles
9-4-321.174A: Operation Of Motor Vehicle With Expired License
9-4-321.175 - 9-4-321.192: Reserved
9-4-321.193: Restricted Licenses
9-4-321.194 - 9-4-321.215: Reserved
Division 2. Licensees And Nonoperators Identification Cards; Violations
9-4-321.216: Unlawful Use Of License
9-4-321.217 - 9-4-321.218: Reserved
9-4-321.219: Permitting Unauthorized Minor To Drive
9-4-321.220: Permitting Unauthorized Person To Drive
9-4-321.221: Employing Unlicensed Chauffeur
9-4-321.222: Renting Motor Vehicle To Unlicensed Persons
9-4-321.223: Inspection Of License Prior To Renting
9-4-321.224: Records Of Rentals
9-4-321.225 - 9-4-321.228: Reserved
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
9-4-321.90 - 9-4-321.97: RESERVED:
(Ord. 24-09, 4-20-2009)
9-4-321.98: OPERATION WITHOUT REGISTRATION:
   A.   Except as otherwise expressly permitted in this chapter, a person shall
not operate and an owner shall not knowingly permit to be operated upon any
highway any vehicle required to be registered and titled under this chapter
unless:
      1.   A valid registration card and registration plate or plates issued
for the vehicle for the current registration year are attached to and displayed
on the vehicle when and as required by this chapter; and
      2.   A certificate of title has been issued for the vehicle.
   B.   Any violation of this section is a simple misdemeanor punishable as a
scheduled violation under Iowa Code section 805.8A, subsection 2. (Ord. 3-14,
1-6-2014)
9-4-321.99 - 9-4-321.173: RESERVED:
(Ord. 24-09, 4-20-2009)
9-4-321.174: OPERATOR'S LICENSE; OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   A person, except those expressly exempted, shall not operate any motor
vehicle upon any street of this city unless the person has a driver's license
issued by the department valid for the vehicle's operation.
   B.   A person operating a commercial motor vehicle shall not have more than
one driver's license. A nonresident may operate a commercial motor vehicle in
Iowa if the nonresident has been issued a license by another state, a
nonresident commercial driver's license, or a driver's license issued by a
foreign jurisdiction which the federal highway administration has determined to
be issued in conformity with the federal commercial driver testing and
licensing standards, if the license, commercial driver's license, or driver's
license is valid for the vehicle operated.
   C.   Every licensee shall have an operator or instruction permit in
immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle and shall
display the same upon demand of a judicial magistrate, district associate
judge, peace officer, or a field deputy or examiner of the department. However,
no person charged with violating this provision shall be convicted if such
person produces in court, within a reasonable time, an operator or instruction
permit theretofore issued to such person and valid at the time of such person's
arrest. (Ord. 24-09, 4-20-2009)
9-4-321.174A: OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE WITH EXPIRED LICENSE:
A person shall not operate a motor vehicle upon a city street with an expired
driver's license. (Ord. 24-09, 4-20-2009)
9-4-321.175 - 9-4-321.192: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-4-321.193: RESTRICTED LICENSES:
   A.   The department may either issue a special restricted license or may set
forth such restrictions upon the usual license form.
   B.   The department shall not require a person issued a valid operator's or
chauffeur's license to comply with any other licensing requirements in order to
operate a motorized bicycle.
   C.   It is a misdemeanor for any person to operate a motor vehicle in any
manner in violation of the restrictions imposed in a restricted license issued
to such person. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-4-321.194 - 9-4-321.215: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 2. LICENSEES AND NONOPERATORS IDENTIFICATION CARDS; VIOLATIONS
9-4-321.216: UNLAWFUL USE OF LICENSE:
It is a simple misdemeanor for any person:
   A.   To display or cause a permit to be displayed or have in the person's
possession any canceled, revoked, suspended, fictitious, or fraudulently
altered temporary driver's permit, temporary instruction permit, motorized
bicycle license, operator's license, or chauffeur's license.
   B.   To lend that person's temporary driver's permit, temporary instruction
permit, motorized bicycle license, operator's license, or chauffeur's license
to any other person or knowingly permit the use thereof by another.
   C.   To display or represent as one's own any temporary driver's permit,
temporary instruction permit, motorized bicycle license, operator's license, or
chauffeur's license not issued to that person.
   D.   To fail or refuse to surrender to the department upon its lawful demand
any temporary driver's permit, temporary instruction permit, motorized bicycle
license, operator's license, or chauffeur's license which has been suspended,
revoked or canceled.
   E.   To use a false or fictitious name in any application for a temporary
driver's permit, temporary instruction permit, motorized bicycle license,
operator's license, or chauffeur's license or to knowingly make a false
statement or to knowingly conceal a material fact or otherwise commit a fraud
in any such application.
   F.   To permit any unlawful use of a temporary driver's permit, temporary
instruction permit, motorized bicycle license, operator's license, or
chauffeur's license issued.
   G.   To obtain, possess, or have in one's control or on one's premises blank
motor vehicle license forms. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-4-321.217 - 9-4-321.218: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-4-321.219: PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED MINOR TO DRIVE:
No person shall cause or knowingly permit such person's child or ward under the
age of eighteen (18) years to drive a motor vehicle upon any street when such
minor is not authorized according to law. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-4-321.220: PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSON TO DRIVE:
A person shall not knowingly authorize or permit a motor vehicle owned by the
person or under the person's control to be driven upon a highway by a person
who is not issued a driver's license valid for the vehicle's operation. (Ord.
44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-4-321.221: EMPLOYING UNLICENSED CHAUFFEUR:
No person shall employ as a chauffeur of a motor vehicle any person not then
licensed as provided by law. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-4-321.222: RENTING MOTOR VEHICLE TO UNLICENSED PERSONS:
No person shall rent a motor vehicle to any other person unless the latter
person is then duly licensed according to the laws of the state, or in the case
of a nonresident, then duly licensed under the laws of the state or country of
such person's residence except a nonresident whose home state or country does
not require that an operator be licensed. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-4-321.223: INSPECTION OF LICENSE PRIOR TO RENTING:
No person shall rent a motor vehicle to another until such person has inspected
the operator's or chauffeur's license of the person to whom the vehicle is to
be rented and compared and verified the signature thereon with the signature of
such person written in such person's presence. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-4-321.224: RECORDS OF RENTALS:
Every person renting a motor vehicle to another shall keep a record of the
registration number of the motor vehicle so rented, the name and address of the
person to whom the vehicle is rented, the number of the license of said latter
person, and the date and place when and where said license was issued. Such
record shall be open to inspection by any peace officer, as defined in section
801.4, subsection 11, paragraphs a, b, c, and h of the code of Iowa, or
employee of the department. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-4-321.225 - 9-4-321.228: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 5
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
SECTION:
9-5-321.229: Obedience To Peace Officers Required
9-5-321.230: Reserved
9-5-321.231: Privileges Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
9-5-321.232 – 9-5-321.234: Reserved
9-5-321.234A: All-Terrain Vehicles
9-5-321.235 – 9-5-321.236: Reserved
9-5-321.229: OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS REQUIRED:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-5-321.230: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-5-321.231: PRIVILEGES OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an
emergency call, when in pursuit of an actual or suspected perpetrator of a
felony, in response to an incident dangerous to the public, or when responding
to but not upon returning from a fire alarm may exercise the privileges set
forth in this section.
   B.   The driver of any authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park or stand an authorized emergency vehicle irrespective of the
provisions of this title.
      2.   Disregard laws or regulations governing direction of movement for
the minimum distances necessary before an alternative route that conforms to
the traffic laws and regulations is available.
   C.   The driver of a fire department vehicle, police vehicle, or ambulance
may:
      1.   Proceed past a red stop signal or stop sign but only after slowing
down as may be necessary for safe operations.
      2.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as the driver does not
endanger life or property.
   D.   The exemptions granted to an authorized emergency vehicle under
subsection B of this section and for fire department vehicle, police vehicle,
or ambulance as provided in subsection C of this section shall apply only when
such vehicle is making use of an audible signaling device or a visual signaling
device except that use of an audible or visual signaling device shall not be
required when exercising the exemptions granted under subsection C2 of this
section when the vehicle is operated by a peace officer pursuing a suspected
violator of the speed restrictions imposed by or pursuant to this code for the
purpose of determining the speed of travel of such suspected violator.
   E.   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
the driver's reckless disregard for the safety of others. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-5-321.232 – 9-5-321.234: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-5-321.234A: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES:
   A.   Roadway Use:
      1.   All-terrain vehicles shall not be operated on a roadway unless one
or more of the following conditions apply:
         a.   The operation is between sunrise and sunset and is incidental to
the vehicle's use for agricultural purposes. For purposes of this paragraph,
"incidental to the vehicle's use for agricultural purposes" includes stopping
in the course of agricultural use to obtain fuel for the all-terrain vehicle or
to obtain food or a nonalcoholic beverage for the operator. (Ord. 34-10, 6-21-
2010, eff. 7-1-2010)
         b.   The all-terrain vehicle's operation is incidental to the
vehicle's use for the purpose of surveying by a licensed engineer or land
surveyor.
         c.   The all-terrain vehicle is operated by an employee or agent of a
political subdivision or public utility for the purpose of construction or
maintenance on or adjacent to the highway.
      2.   A person operating an all-terrain vehicle on a roadway shall have a
valid operator's license.
      3.   The all-terrain vehicle shall be operated at speeds of thirty (30)
miles per hour or less.
      4.   When operated on a roadway, an all-terrain vehicle shall have a
bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five feet (5') above the ground
attached to the rear of the vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than thirty (30) square inches, be
day glow in color, and shall be in lieu of the reflective equipment required by
section 32-321.383 of the code of Iowa.
   B.   Private Property:
      1.   All-terrain vehicles shall not be operated on private or public
property unless the following conditions apply:
         a.   The operation is between sunrise and sunset.
         b.   The property is not less than one acre in size.
         c.   The property is zoned agricultural (AG) or is zoned planned urban
development (PUD) and used for agricultural purposes.
         d.   If the operator of the all-terrain vehicle is not the property
owner, the operator must have the written permission of the property owner.
         e.   The all-terrain vehicle shall be operated at speeds of thirty
(30) miles per hour or less.
      2.   The provisions of subsection B1 of this section shall not apply to
zoned institutional districts (ID).
   C.   Right Of Way: All-terrain vehicles shall not be operated on land
adjacent to a highway, other than an interstate road, unless the following
provisions apply:
      1.   The operator of the all-terrain vehicle is the property owner or a
member of the owner's family.
      2.   The all-terrain vehicle is operated on the portion of the highway
right of way that is between the shoulder of the roadway, or at least five feet
(5') from the edge of the roadway and the owner's property line.
      3.   A person operating an all-terrain vehicle within the highway right
of way under this subsection shall comply with the registration, safety, and
age requirements under Iowa Code, chapter 321I.
   D.   Disabled Persons: The provisions of this section shall not apply to use
of a wheelchair or other similar conveyance when used for transportation by any
temporarily or permanently disabled person.
   E.   Parades, Exhibitions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to
the above proscribed conveyances when used in any parade, exhibition, or
gathering of persons which has been authorized by permit from the city manager.
   F.   Emergency Services: The provisions of this section shall not apply to
all-terrain vehicles operated by an employee or agent of a public agency for
the purpose of providing emergency services or rescue.
   G.   Violation: A person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty
of a simple misdemeanor punishable as a scheduled violation under Iowa Code
section 805.8A. (Ord. 39-09, 8-3-2009)
9-5-321.235 – 9-5-321.236: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 6
POWERS OF LOCAL AUTHORITIES
SECTION:
9-6-321.237: Posting Required
9-6-321.238 – 9-6-321.248: Reserved
9-6-321.249: School Zones
9-6-321.250 – 9-6-321.255: Reserved
9-6-321.237: POSTING REQUIRED:
No traffic regulation establishing regulations for specific streets or portions
thereof within the city shall be effective until signs giving notice of such
regulations as called for are posted upon or at the entrances to the street or
part thereof affected. The city manager is hereby authorized to post signs or
direct the placement of signs consistent with this chapter. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-6-321.238 – 9-6-321.248: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-6-321.249: SCHOOL ZONES:
   A.   School zones are hereby established and shall embrace all the territory
contiguous to and including streets for a distance of two hundred feet (200')
in either direction from a school building or buildings. All vehicular traffic
shall stop when approaching such zones in obedience to movable stop signs
placed in the streets at the limits of the same.
   B.   The city manager is authorized to erect school type traffic control
signals at the entrance to each school zone in the city and at such other
crossings or other intersections as the city council may designate. (Ord. 44-
08, 6-16-2008)
9-6-321.250 – 9-6-321.255: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 7
OPERATION
SECTION:
Division 1. Traffic Signs, Signals And Markings
9-7-321.256: Obedience To Official Traffic Control Devices
9-7-321.257: Official Traffic-Control Signal
9-7-321.258: Reserved
9-7-321.259: Unauthorized Signs, Signals, Or Markings
9-7-321.260: Interference With Signs, Signals, Or Devices; Unlawful Possession
9-7-321.261: Reserved
Division 2. Accidents
9-7-321.262: Duty Of Driver When Damage Is To Vehicle Only
9-7-321.263: Duty Of Driver To Give Information, Aid
9-7-321.264: Duty Of Driver Upon Striking Unattended Vehicle
9-7-321.265: Duty Of Driver Upon Striking Fixtures Upon Highway
9-7-321.266: Reports Required
Division 3. Operation Of Motorcycles And Motorized Bicycles
9-7-321.275: Motorcycles And Motorized Bicycles
9-7-321.275A: Use Of Bicycles, Motorcycles In Parks
9-7-321.276: Use Of Certain Nonmotorized Vehicles, Conveyances, And Equipment
In Municipal Parking Ramps Or Lots And In Certain Other Places In City
9-7-321.276A: Electric Personal Assistive Mobility Devices
Division 4. Criminal Offenses
9-7-321.277: Reckless Driving
9-7-321.277A: Careless Driving
9-7-321.278: Drag Racing Prohibited
9-7-321.279 - 9-7-321.283: Reserved
9-7-321.284: Open Containers In Motor Vehicles; Drivers
9-7-321.284A: Open Containers In Motor Vehicles; Passengers
Division 5. Speed Restrictions
9-7-321.285: Limits Generally
9-7-321.286: Automated Speed Enforcement
9-7-321.287: Reserved
9-7-321.288: Control Of Vehicle
9-7-321.289: Signs To Be Erected
9-7-321.290: Reserved
9-7-321.291: Speeding Violation Form
9-7-321.292 - 9-7-321.293: Reserved
9-7-321.294: Minimum Speed
9-7-321.295 - 9-7-321.296: Reserved
Division 6. Driving On Right Side Of Roadway; Overtaking And Passing
9-7-321.297: Driving On Right Hand Side Of Roadway; Exceptions
9-7-321.298: Meeting And Turning To Right
9-7-321.299: Passing Generally
9-7-321.300 - 9-7-321.301: Reserved
9-7-321.302: Overtaking, Passing On Right
9-7-321.303: Limitations On Overtaking On Left
9-7-321.304: Prohibited Passing
9-7-321.305: One-Way Streets
9-7-321.306: Roadways Laned For Traffic
9-7-321.307: Following Too Closely
Division 7. Turning And Starting And Signals On Stopping And Turning
9-7-321.311: Turning At Intersections
9-7-321.312: Turning On Curves, Hills
9-7-321.313: Starting Parked Vehicle
9-7-321.314: Signals Required When Turning
9-7-321.315: Turn Signal To Be Continuous
9-7-321.316: Signal Required When Stopping Or Decreasing Speed Suddenly
9-7-321.317: Signals To Be By Hand And Arm Or Signal Device
9-7-321.318: Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals
Division 8. Right-Of-Way
9-7-321.319: Entering Intersections From Different Highways
9-7-321.320: Left Turns At Intersections
9-7-321.321: Entering Through Streets
9-7-321.322: Stop And Yield Intersections
9-7-321.323: Backing Vehicle On Highway
9-7-321.324: Operation On Approach Of Emergency Vehicles
9-7-321.324A: Funeral Processions
DIVISION 1. TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
9-7-321.256: OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this title unless at
the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted to the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-7-321.257: OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, "stop at the official traffic-control
signal" means stopping at the first opportunity at either the clearly marked
stop line or before entering the crosswalk or before entering the intersection.
   B.   Official traffic-control signals consisting of colored lights or
colored lighted arrows shall regulate vehicle and pedestrian traffic in the
following manner:
      1.   A "steady circular red" or "steady red arrow" light means vehicular
traffic shall stop. Vehicular traffic shall remain standing until a signal to
proceed is shown or vehicular traffic, unless prohibited by a sign, may
cautiously enter the intersection to make a right turn from the right lane of
traffic or a left turn from a one-way street to a one-way street from the left
lane of traffic on a one-way street onto the leftmost lane of traffic on a one-
way street. Turns made under this paragraph shall be made in a manner that does
not interfere with other vehicular or pedestrian traffic lawfully using the
intersection. Pedestrian traffic facing a steady circular red light shall not
enter the roadway unless the pedestrian can safely cross the roadway without
interfering with any vehicular traffic.
      2.   A "steady circular yellow" or "steady yellow arrow" light means
vehicular traffic is warned that the related green movement is being terminated
and vehicular traffic shall no longer proceed into the intersection and shall
stop. If the stop cannot be made in safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously
through the intersection. Pedestrian traffic is warned that there is
insufficient time to cross the intersection and any pedestrian starting to
cross the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
      3.   A "steady circular green" light means vehicular traffic may proceed
straight, turn right or turn left through the intersection unless otherwise
specifically prohibited. Vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicular and pedestrian traffic lawfully within the intersection.
      4.   A "steady green arrow" light shown alone or with another official
traffic-control signal means vehicular traffic may cautiously enter the
intersection and proceed in the direction indicated by the arrow. Vehicular
traffic shall yield the right- of-way to other vehicles and pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection.
      5.   A "flashing circular red" light means vehicular traffic shall stop
and after stopping may proceed cautiously through the intersection yielding to
all vehicles not required to stop or yield which are within the intersection or
approaching so closely as to constitute a hazard, but then may proceed.
      6.   A "flashing yellow" light means vehicular traffic shall proceed
through the intersection or past such signal with caution.
      7.   A "flashing yellow arrow" light shown alone or with another official
traffic-control signal means vehicular traffic may cautiously enter the
intersection and proceed only in the direction indicated by the arrow.
Vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection and any vehicle on the opposing
approach which is approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time the driver is moving within the intersection.
      8.   A "don't walk" or "steady upraised hand" light is a pedestrian
signal which means that pedestrian traffic facing the illuminated pedestrian
signal shall not start to cross the roadway in the direction of the pedestrian
signal, and pedestrian traffic in the crossing shall proceed to a safety zone.
      9.   A "flashing upraised hand" or "upraised hand with countdown" light
is a pedestrian signal which means that pedestrian traffic facing the
illuminated pedestrian signal shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the pedestrian signal, and pedestrian traffic in the crossing
shall proceed to a safety zone. The "upraised hand with countdown" light is a
pedestrian signal that also provides the time remaining for the pedestrian to
complete the crossing.
      10.   A "walk" or "walking person" light is a pedestrian signal which
means that pedestrian traffic facing the illuminated pedestrian signal may
proceed to cross the roadway in the direction of the pedestrian signal and
shall be given the right- of-way by drivers of all vehicles. (Ord. 36-17, 7-17-
2017)
9-7-321.258: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.259: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, OR MARKINGS:
   A.   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
street or highway any sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be or
is an imitation of or resembles an official parking sign, curb, or other
marking, traffic control device, or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any railroad sign
or signal, if such sign, signal, marking, or device has not been authorized by
the department and city with reference to streets and highways under their
jurisdiction, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public
authority permit upon any street or highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   B.   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway is hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed
without notice. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.260: INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS, SIGNALS, OR DEVICES; UNLAWFUL POSSESSION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and intentionally,
without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact, alter, deface, injure, knock
down, or remove any official traffic control device, any authorized warning
sign, or signal or barricade, whether temporary or permanent, any railroad sign
or signal, any inscription, shield, or insignia on any of such devices, signs,
signals, or barricades, or any other part thereof.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in such person's possession
any official traffic control device except by reason of such person's
employment. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.261: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 2. ACCIDENTS
9-7-321.262: DUTY OF DRIVER WHEN DAMAGE IS TO VEHICLE ONLY:
The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage to a
vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop such
vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible but shall
forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of such
accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of section
9-7-321.263 of this chapter. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.263: DUTY OF DRIVER TO GIVE INFORMATION, AID:
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or attended
by any person shall give such driver's name, address, and the registration
number of the vehicle such driver is driving and shall, upon request and if
available, exhibit such driver's, operator's, or chauffeur's license to the
person struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle
collided with and shall render to any person injured in such accident
reasonable assistance, including the carrying or the making of arrangements for
the carrying of such person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or
surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or if
such carrying is requested by the injured person.
   B.   If the accident causes the death of any person, the surviving driver
shall not leave the scene of the accident except to seek necessary aid for
himself or to report the accident to law enforcement authorities. Before
leaving the scene of the accident, the surviving driver shall leave such
driver's automobile registration receipt or other identification data at the
scene of the accident. After leaving the scene of the accident, the surviving
driver shall promptly report the accident by telephone to law enforcement
authorities and shall immediately return to the scene of the accident or shall
inform the authorities where such driver can be located. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-7-321.264: DUTY OF DRIVER UPON STRIKING UNATTENDED VEHICLE:
The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is unattended
shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the
operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the driver and of
the owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle or shall leave in a
conspicuous place on the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name and
address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking and a
statement of the circumstances thereof. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.265: DUTY OF DRIVER UPON STRIKING FIXTURES UPON HIGHWAY:
The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in damage to
property legally upon or adjacent to a highway shall take reasonable steps to
locate and notify the owner, a peace officer, or person in charge of such
property of such fact and of the driver's name and address and of the
registration number of the vehicle causing the damage and shall, upon request
and if available, exhibit the driver's, operator's, or chauffeur's license and
shall make report of such accident when and as required in section
9-7-321.266 of this chapter. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.266: REPORTS REQUIRED:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to
or death of any person shall immediately, by the quickest means of
communication, give notice of such accident to the city manager.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in total
property damage to an apparent extent of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
more shall report said accident to the police department within seventy two
(72) hours.
   C.   Every peace officer, who in the regular course of duty, investigates a
motor vehicle accident of which a report must be made as required in this
section, either at the time of and at the scene of the accident or thereafter
by interviewing witnesses, shall within twenty four (24) hours after completing
such investigation, file a written report of such accident.
   D.   Any carrier transporting hazardous materials by rail, air, water, or
upon a roadway in this city, in the case of accident, shall immediately notify
the city manager. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 3. OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES
9-7-321.275: MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES:
   A.   General: The motor vehicle laws apply to the operators of motorcycles
and motorized bicycles to the extent practically applicable.
   B.   Riders:
      1.   Motorized Bicycles: A person operating a motorized bicycle shall not
carry any other person on the vehicle.
      2.   Motorcycles: A person shall not operate or ride a motorcycle with
another person on the motorcycle unless the motorcycle is designed to carry
more than one person. The additional passenger may ride upon the permanent and
regular seat if designed for two (2) persons or upon another seat firmly
attached to the motorcycle at the rear of the operator. The motorcycle shall be
equipped with footrests for the passenger unless the passenger is riding in a
sidecar or enclosed cab. The motorcycle operator shall not carry any person nor
shall any other person ride in a position that will interfere with the
operation or control of the motorcycle or the view of the operator. (Ord. 44-
08, 6-16-2008)
   C.   Sitting Position: A person operating a motorcycle or motorized bicycle
shall ride only upon the vehicle's permanent and regular attached seat. A
person operating a motorcycle or motorized bicycle must keep at least one hand
on the handlebars at all times. Every person riding upon the vehicle shall be
sitting astride the seat facing forward with one leg on either side of the
vehicle. (Ord. 22-13, 4-15-2013)
   D.   Use Of Traffic Lanes: Persons shall not operate motorcycles or
motorized bicycles more than two (2) abreast in a single lane. Except for
persons operating such vehicles two (2) abreast, a motor vehicle shall not be
operated in a manner depriving a motorcycle or motorized bicycle operator of
the full use of a lane. A motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall not be operated
between lanes of traffic or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles. The
operator of a motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall not overtake and pass in
the same lane occupied by the vehicle being overtaken unless the vehicle being
overtaken is a motorcycle or motorized bicycle.
   E.   Headlights Turned On: A person shall not operate a 1977 or later model
year motorcycle or any model year motorized bicycle upon the highways without
displaying at least one lighted headlamp of the type described in section
9-12-321.409 of this title. However, this subsection is subject to the
exceptions with respect to parked vehicles as provided in this title.
   F.   Packages: The operator of a motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall not
carry any package, bundle, or other article which prevents the operator from
keeping both hands on the handlebars.
   G.   Handlebars: A person shall not operate a motorcycle or motorized
bicycle with handlebars more than fifteen inches (15") in height above that
portion of the seat occupied by the operator.
   H.   Parades: The provisions of this section do not apply to motorcycles or
motorized bicycles when used in a parade authorized by proper permit from local
authorities. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.275A: USE OF BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES IN PARKS:
   A.   The use of bicycles, skateboards and other nonmotorized conveyances and
motorcycles, motor scooters, go-carts, cars, trucks, and other motor driven
vehicles other than those vehicles engaged in authorized park maintenance and
security in any park, recreation facility, or trail may be prohibited by the
park and recreation advisory commission.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any car, truck, motorcycle, or
any other type vehicle to stop, stand, or park upon any roadway or in any
parking areas in any park, recreation facility, or trail in such manner as to
obstruct the flow of traffic.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to play games, catch,
throw frisbees or other objects, gather in groups on any roadway or parking
areas in any park, recreation facility, or trail as to obstruct the flow of
traffic.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to park any car, truck, motorcycle, or other type
of vehicle along any roadway or area in any park or recreation facility that is
posted prohibiting such parking.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any car, truck, motorcycle, or any other type
of motorized vehicle to drive on and/or park on any grass area, sidewalk, or
trail in any park, recreation facility, or trail except with the express
permission of the parks and recreation director's designee.
   F.   The scheduled fine for a violation of this section shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008; amd. Ord. 5-25, 2-17-2025)
9-7-321.276: USE OF CERTAIN NONMOTORIZED VEHICLES, CONVEYANCES, AND EQUIPMENT
IN MUNICIPAL PARKING RAMPS OR LOTS AND IN CERTAIN OTHER PLACES IN CITY:
   A.   No person shall be upon and make use of roller skates, skateboards,
bicycles, or other wheeled recreational vehicles or conveyances within any
municipal parking ramp or municipal parking lot. This provision shall not apply
to use of a wheelchair or other similar conveyance when used for transportation
by any temporarily or permanently disabled person or to a wagon being pulled by
a pedestrian at a walking speed.
   B.   No person shall use roller skates, skateboards, wagons, or other
wheeled or nonmotorized recreational vehicles, with the exception of bicycles,
upon the roadway portion of any right of way, except that a person may use any
of the above proscribed conveyances in any marked or unmarked crosswalk. Any
person using any of the above proscribed conveyances in crossing a roadway at a
place other than a marked or unmarked crosswalk shall be subject to the
requirements set forth in section
9-8-321.328 of this title.
   C.   The city manager is hereby authorized to designate and post signs in
areas where skateboarding, skating, and riding bicycles and scooters is
prohibited. No person shall skateboard, skate, or ride a bicycle or a scooter
in any such area.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the above proscribed
conveyances when used in any parade, exhibition, or gathering of persons which
has been authorized by permit from the city manager.
   E.   The scheduled fine for a violation of this section shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.276A: ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES:
   A.   No person under sixteen (16) years of age may operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device in the city of Dubuque.
   B.   No operator's permit or license shall be required for the operation of
an electric personal assistive mobility device.
   C.   No licensure or registration of the electric personal assistive
mobility device is required.
   D.   No proof of financial responsibility is required.
   E.   A person shall operate an electric personal assistive mobility device
in a safe and nonhazardous manner so as not to endanger himself or herself or
any other person or property.
   F.   There shall be no prohibition against any person riding an electric
personal assistive mobility device upon a sidewalk or bicycle path within the
city, so long as the rider does not create a hazard; provided, that no person
shall operate an electric personal assistance mobility device upon a sidewalk
within the city on those sidewalks expressly designated by the city manager as
prohibited and appropriate signs to such effect are posted.
   G.   Any person riding an electric personal assistive mobility device upon a
sidewalk shall yield the right of way to pedestrians, and shall travel at a
speed no greater than is safe for the conditions then existing on the sidewalk.
   H.   A person propelling an electric personal assistive mobility device upon
and along a sidewalk or while crossing a roadway in a crosswalk shall have all
the rights and duties applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances,
except that the electric personal assistive mobility device operator must yield
to pedestrians on the sidewalk or crosswalk.
   I.   The operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device emerging
from, or entering an alley, driveway, or building shall, upon approaching a
sidewalk, or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right
of way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk, and upon entering the
roadway in a crosswalk shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching
on said roadway.
   J.   Electric personal assistive mobility devices shall not be used on
roadways, except when using a crosswalk or on side streets where there is not a
sidewalk adjacent to the street.
   K.   A person shall not operate an electric personal assistive mobility
device at the times specified in section
9-12-321.384 of this title, unless the person or the electric personal
assistive mobility device is equipped with a headlight visible from the front
of the electric personal assistive mobility device and at least one red
reflector visible from the rear of the electric personal assistive mobility
device.
   L.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to use of a wheelchair
or other similar conveyance when used for transportation by any temporarily or
permanently disabled person.
   M.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the above proscribed
conveyances when used in any parade, exhibition or gathering of persons which
has been authorized by permit from the city manager.
   N.   The provision of this section shall not apply to the above proscribed
conveyances when used by the fire or police departments.
   O.   The scheduled fine for a violation of this section shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 4. CRIMINAL OFFENSES
9-7-321.277: RECKLESS DRIVING:
Any person who drives any vehicle in such manner as to indicate either a wilful
or a wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of
reckless driving. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.277A: CARELESS DRIVING:
A person commits careless driving if the person intentionally operates a motor
vehicle, motorcycle, motorized bicycle, motor bicycle, bicycle, skateboard, or
electric personal assistive mobility device, on a public road, highway,
sidewalk, bicycle path, or trail in any one of the following ways:
   A.   Creates or causes unnecessary tire squealing, skidding, or sliding upon
acceleration or stopping.
   B.   Simulates a temporary race.
   C.   Causes any wheel or wheels to unnecessarily lose contact with the
ground.
   D.   Causes the vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway.
   E.   Creates or causes unnecessary danger to himself or herself or any other
person or property. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.278: DRAG RACING PROHIBITED:
No person shall engage in any motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of
speed on any street or highway of this state, and no person shall aid or abet
any motor vehicle speed contest or speed exhibition on any street or highway of
this state, except that a passenger shall not be considered as aiding or
abetting. "Motor vehicle speed contest" or "exhibition of speed" is defined as
one or more persons competing in speed in excess of the applicable speed limit
in vehicles on the public streets or highways. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.279 - 9-7-321.283: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.284: OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; DRIVERS:
A driver of a motor vehicle upon a public street or highway shall not possess
in the passenger area of the motor vehicle an open or unsealed bottle, can,
jar, or other receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage. "Passenger area"
means the area designed to seat the driver and passengers while the motor
vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to the driver
or a passenger while in their seating positions, including the glove
compartment. An open or unsealed receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage
may be transported in the trunk of the motor vehicle. An unsealed receptacle
containing alcoholic beverage may be transported behind the last upright seat
of the motor vehicle if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk. A person
convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of a simple misdemeanor
punishable as a scheduled violation under Iowa Code section 805.8A. (Ord. 23-
09, 4-20-2009)
9-7-321.284A: OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; PASSENGERS:
   A.   A passenger in a motor vehicle upon a public street or highway shall
not possess in the passenger area of the motor vehicle an open or unsealed
bottle, can, jar, or other receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage.
"Passenger area" means the area of a motor vehicle designed to seat the driver
and passengers while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is
readily accessible to the driver or a passenger while in their seating
positions, including the glove compartment. An open or unsealed receptacle
containing an alcoholic beverage may be transported in the trunk of the motor
vehicle. An unsealed receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage may be
transported behind the last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle does not have a trunk.
   B.   This section does not apply to a passenger being transported in a motor
vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily for the transportation of
persons for compensation, or a passenger being transported in the living
quarters of motor home, manufactured or mobile home, travel trailer, or fifth
wheel travel trailer.
   C.   A person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of a simple
misdemeanor punishable as a scheduled violation under Iowa Code section 805.8A.
(Ord. 23-09, 4-20-2009)
DIVISION 5. SPEED RESTRICTIONS
9-7-321.285: LIMITS GENERALLY:
   A.   Any person driving a motor vehicle on any street of this city shall
drive the same at a careful and prudent speed not greater than or less than is
reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface, and width of
the streets and of any other conditions then existing, and no person shall
drive any vehicle at a speed greater than will permit such person to bring it
to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right
to assume, however, that all persons using such streets will observe the law.
   B.   The following shall be lawful speeds except as otherwise provided in
subsection C of this section or elsewhere in this title or other ordinance of
the city and any speed in excess thereof shall be unlawful:
      1.   Twenty (20) miles per hour in any business district.
      2.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour in any residential or school
district.
      3.   Forty (40) miles per hour for any motor vehicle drawing another
vehicle in any district or on any street where the lawful speed is in excess of
forty (40) miles per hour, except when otherwise specified under section
321.285 of the state code.
      4.   Forty five (45) miles per hour in any suburban district. (Ord. 44-
08, 6-16-2008)
   C.   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, the following shall be
the lawful speed on the streets or portions thereof designated herein:
         Fifteen (15) miles per hour:
            Streets and roadways in all city parks.
         Twenty five (25) miles per hour:
            Admiral Sheehy Drive, U.S. Highway 61/151 to its terminus.
            Airport Road, from a point two thousand three hundred feet (2,300')
west of U.S. Highway 61 to its westerly terminus.
            Bryant Street, from Grandview Avenue to the centerline of U.S.
Highway 20.
            Carter Road, from John F. Kennedy Road to Kane Street.
            Central Avenue, 32nd Street to its southerly terminus.
            Fremont Avenue, from Simpson Street to U.S. Highway 20.
            Greyhound Park Drive, U.S. Highway 61/151 to its terminus.
            Hill Street, from 9th Street to the centerline of U.S. Highway 20.
            Kerper Boulevard, Pine Street to 11th Street.
            Pennsylvania Avenue, from University Avenue to Hickson Street.
            Ramp connector, eastbound from Fremont Avenue to Grandview Avenue.
            Ramp connector, westbound from Grandview Avenue to Lombard Street.
            White Street, 4th Street to 12th Street.
         Thirty (30) miles per hour:
            Asbury Road, University Avenue to a point five hundred feet (500')
west of St. John Drive.
            Cedar Cross Road, U.S. Highway 20 to a point eight hundred feet
(800') east of Ace Avenue.
            Central Avenue, 32nd Street to Ruby Street.
            Chavenelle Road, from Associates Drive to its westerly terminus.
            Fremont Avenue, from North Cascade Road to Simpson Street.
            John F. Kennedy Road, Sunset Park Circle to city limits.
            Kaufman Avenue, John F. Kennedy Road to Central Avenue.
            Locust Street, West, Clarke Drive to 16th Street.
            Loras Boulevard, Bluff Street to University Avenue.
            Pennsylvania Avenue, from Hickson Street to John F. Kennedy Road.
            Peru Road, from a point seven hundred feet (700') east of Jackson
to Sheridan Road.
            Rhomberg Avenue, Elm Street to its northeasterly terminus.
            Shiras Avenue, Rhomberg Avenue to its northerly terminus.
            University Avenue, 9th Street to Prysi Street.
            Windsor Avenue, East 24th Street to its northerly terminus.
            9th Street, Bluff Street to University Avenue.
            32nd Street, West, Highland Park to John F. Kennedy Road.
         Thirty five (35) miles per hour:
            Airport Road, from U.S. Highway 61 to a point two thousand three
hundred feet (2,300') west of U.S. Highway 61.
            Asbury Road, from a point five hundred feet (500') west of St.
John's Drive to city limits.
            Carter Road, from Kane Street to West 32nd Street.
            Cedar Cross Road, Fremont Street to a point eight hundred feet
(800') east of Ace Avenue.
            Dodge Street (U.S. Highway 20), from Locust Street to a point one
thousand five hundred thirty feet (1,530') east of Locust Street.
            Dodge Street (U.S. Highway 20), Locust Street to a point one
thousand one hundred feet (1,100') west of Locust Street.
            Grandview Avenue, Balboa Street to 32nd Street.
            Grandview Avenue, from a point approximately four hundred feet
(400') north of Ungs Street to Kaufman Avenue.
            John F. Kennedy Road, Dodge Street (U.S. Highway 20) to Sunset Park
Circle.
            Kerper Boulevard, 11th Street to Hawthorne Street.
            Pennsylvania Avenue, John F. Kennedy Road to westerly city limits.
            Peru Road, Roosevelt Road (Valley Road) to northerly city limits.
            Radford Road, from Chavenelle Road to the northerly city limits.
            Roosevelt Road (Valley Road and Pebman Road), Peru Road to a point
five hundred feet (500') north of Amelia Drive.
            Seippel Road, U.S. Highway 20 to the northerly city limits.
            University Avenue, Prysi Street to John F. Kennedy Road.
            Wacker Drive, Dodge Street (U.S. Highway 20) to John F. Kennedy
Road.
            16th Street, East, Kerper Boulevard to Sycamore Street.
            32nd Street, West, Grandview Avenue to Highland Park.
         Forty (40) miles per hour:
            Central Avenue, Ruby Street to Olympic Heights Road.
         Forty five (45) miles per hour:
            Dodge Street (U.S. Highway 20), from a point one thousand five
hundred thirty feet (1,530') east of Locust Street to the easterly city limits
on the Julien Dubuque bridge.
            Dodge Street (U.S. Highway 20), from a point one thousand one
hundred feet (1,100') west of Locust Street to a point five hundred feet (500')
east of Crescent Ridge Road.
            Locust Street ramps to U.S. 52/61/151, from Locust Street to U.S.
52/61/151.
            Northwest Arterial (IA 32), U.S. Highway 20 to U.S. Highway 52.
            Peru Road, Roosevelt Road (Valley Road) to northerly city limits.
            U.S. 61/151/52, from a point one hundred fifty feet (150') north of
5th Street to a point one thousand one hundred feet (1,100') south of the
Julien Dubuque bridge.
         Fifty (50) miles per hour:
            Central Avenue, Olympic Heights Road to northerly city limits.
            Dodge Street (U.S. Highway 20), from a point five hundred feet
(500') east of Crescent Ridge Road to the westerly city limits.
            Northwest Arterial (IA 32), from Dodge Street (U.S. Highway 20) to
the northerly city limits.
         Fifty five (55) miles per hour:
            Dodge Street (U.S. Highway 20), from a point one thousand sixty
feet (1,060') west of Old Highway Road to the westerly city limits.
            U.S. 61/151/52, from a point one hundred fifty feet (150') north of
5th Street to the northerly city limits on the Dubuque/Wisconsin bridge, and
from a point one thousand one hundred feet (1,100') south of the Julien Dubuque
bridge to the southerly city limits.
   D.   Scheduled fines are established pursuant to Iowa Code section 805.6(6).
         Excessive speed in zones 55 miles per hour or less:
            1 through 5 miles per hour over
            6 through 10 miles per hour over
            11 through 15 miles per hour over
            16 through 20 miles per hour over
            Over 20 miles per hour over (plus $2.00 for each mile in excess of
20 miles per hour over limit)
         Excessive speed in zones greater than 55 miles per hour:
            1 through 5 miles per hour over
            6 through 10 miles per hour over
            11 through 15 miles per hour over
            16 through 20 miles per hour over
            Over 20 miles per hour over (plus $5.00 for each mile in excess of
20 miles per hour over limit)
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008; amd. Ord. 45-08, 6-21-2008; Ord. 59-09, 12-7-2009; Ord.
64-14, 10-20-2014; Ord. 26-21, 6-21-2021; Ord. 57-24, 9-16-2024)
9-7-321.286: AUTOMATED SPEED ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   General: In accordance with its police powers, the City may deploy,
erect, or cause to have erected an automated speed enforcement system for
capturing images of motor vehicles that violate speed laws by failing to obey
the posted speed regulations within the City. The system may be managed by an
Automated Speed Enforcement Contractor that owns and operates the requisite
equipment. The police department shall retain supervisory control over the
system. The Automated Speed Enforcement Contractor shall provide photographic
and/or video images of any potential violations to the police department to
review and, in the event the police department determines a vehicle was
operated in violation of the City's speed ordinances, the police department
shall direct that a notice of Automated Speed Citation be issued to the vehicle
owner in accordance with this section.
   B.   Definitions:
AUTOMATED SPEED CITATION: A notice of violation generated in connection with
the Automated Speed Enforcement System.
AUTOMATED SPEED ENFORCEMENT CONTRACTOR: The company or entity, if any, with
which the City of Dubuque contracts to provide equipment and/or services in
connection with the Automated Speed Enforcement System.
AUTOMATED SPEED ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: An electronic system consisting of a
photographic, video, electronic, or digital camera, a speed sensor, and a
vehicle sensor installed to work in conjunction with an official traffic
controller or police department employee to automatically produce photographs,
video, or digital images of each vehicle violating a speed limit ordinance.
DIVIDED HIGHWAY: A roadway that is separated by a median.
LOW OR MODERATE INCOME also referred to as "LMI":
   An individual earning no more than eighty percent (80%) of the higher of the
median family income of the county or the statewide non-metropolitan area as
determined by the latest United States department of housing and urban
development, section 8 income guidelines.
UNDIVIDED HIGHWAY: A roadway without median separation.
VEHICLE OWNER: The person or entity identified by the Iowa Department of
Transportation, or identified by any other state vehicle registration office,
as the registered owner of a vehicle detected violating a traffic ordinance by
failing to obey a speed regulation within the City. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in the event the Iowa Department of Transportation or any other
state vehicle registration office identifies a person or entity as the lessee
of the vehicle, that lessee shall be the Vehicle Owner for purposes of this
section. In the event a state registration office does not specify whether a
person or entity listed on the registration for the vehicle is the owner or the
lessee of the vehicle, any person or entity listed on that vehicle registration
may be deemed the Vehicle Owner and held jointly and severally responsible for
a violation of this section.
   C.   Vehicle Owner Subject To Civil Fine For Automated Speed Citations:
      1.   If a vehicle is detected traveling at a speed above the posted
limit, the Vehicle Owner shall be subject to a civil penalty as scheduled below
in subsection D.
      2.   Exemptions from this section are set forth in subsection G and shall
not be considered violations for purposes of the Automated Speed Enforcement
System.
      3.   In no event will an Automated Speed Citation be sent or reported to
the Iowa Department of Transportation or similar department of any other state
for the purpose of being added to the Vehicle Owner's driving record.
   D.   Notice Of Automated Speed Citation; Fines:
      1.   Upon a Dubuque Police Officer's determination that the Automated
Speed Enforcement System has detected a violation described in subsection C1, a
notice of an Automated Speed Citation will be mailed to the Vehicle Owner for
each such violation recorded by the Automated Speed Enforcement System. The
Automated Speed Enforcement Contractor shall mail the notice within thirty (30)
days after receiving information about the Vehicle Owner. The notice shall
include the name and address of the Vehicle Owner; the vehicle make, if
available and readily discernable; the vehicle registration number; the
violation alleged; the time, date, and location of the alleged violation; the
applicable civil penalty; information as to the manner in which the Automated
Speed Citation may be challenged; and that the basis of the notice is a
photographic or video record generated by an Automated Speed Enforcement
System.
      2.   Speed Zone Under Forty Five (45) Miles Per Hour And Undivided
Highways With Speed Zone Forty Five (45) Miles Per Hour:
   Any violation of subsection C1 which occurs in an area:
         a.   With a speed limit under forty five (45) miles per hour or
         b.   On an Undivided Highway where the speed zone is forty five (45)
miles per hour; shall be subject to a civil penalty as scheduled in the table
below, and the civil penalty for any violation committed in a designated
construction zone (as provided by the Code of Iowa), shall be doubled, as
scheduled below, subject in any event to the statutory limit on civil penalties
applicable to municipal
<45 mph Speed Limit
and
Undivided Highways with 45 miles per hour Speed Limit
                                                     Fourth
                                Third &    Third     Offense
            First     Second    Subsequent Offense   Community   Constructio n
Over Speed  Offense   Offense   Offenses   Community Service     & School
Limit (MPH) Civil     Civil     Civil      Service   Options -   Zones Civil
            Penalties Penalties Penalties* Options   LMI         Penalties
                                                     Individuals
                                                     ONLY
<45 mph Speed Limit
and
Undivided Highways with 45 miles per hour Speed Limit
                                                                      Fourth
                                                 Third &    Third     Offense
                             First     Second    Subsequent Offense   Community   Constructio
Over Speed Limit (MPH)       Offense   Offense   Offenses   Community Service     n & School
                             Civil     Civil     Civil      Service   Options -   Zones Civil
                             Penalties Penalties Penalties* Options   LMI         Penalties
                                                                      Individuals
                                                                      ONLY
1 - 5                        N/A       N/A       N/A        N/A       N/A         $0
6 - 10                       N/A       N/A       N/A        N/A       N/A         $100
                                                                      Fourth
                                                 Third &    Third     Offense
                             First     Second    Subsequent Offense   Community   Constructio
      Over Speed Limit Offense   Offense   Offenses   Community Service     n & School
                             Civil     Civil     Civil      Service   Options -   Zones Civil
                             Penalties Penalties Penalties* Options   LMI         Penalties
                                                                      Individuals
                                                                      ONLY
                                                                                  1st
                                                                                  Offense:
                                       $125                                       $200
                             $100      50%                  Community Community   2nd
11 - 15                      Courtesy  reduction $150       Service   Service     Offense:
                             Waiver    to $62.50            Available Available   $250
                                                                                  3rd &
                                                                                  Subsequent:
                                                                                  $300
                                                                                  1st
                                                                                  Offense:
                                       $150                                       $250
                             $125      50%                  Community Community   2nd
16 - 20                      Courtesy  reduction $175       Service   Service     Offense:
                             Waiver    to $75               Available Available   $300
                                                                                  3rd &
                                                                                  Subsequent:
                                                                                  $350
                                                                                  1st
                                                                                  Offense:
                                                                      Extra       $300
                                                                      Community   2nd
21 - 25                      $150      $175      $200       N/A       Service     Offense:
                                                                      Required    $350
                                                                                  3rd &
                                                                                  Subsequent:
                                                                                  $400
                                                                                  1st
                                                                                  Offense:
                                                                      Extra       $350
                                                                      Community   2nd
26 - 30                      $175      $200      $225       N/A       Service     Offense:
                                                                      Required    $400
                                                                                  3rd &
                                                                                  Subsequent:
                                                                                  $450
                                                                                  1st
                                                                                  Offense:
                                                                      Extra       $400
                                                                      Community   2nd
31 +                         $200      $225      $250       N/A       Service     Offense:
                                                                      Required    $450
                                                                                  3rd &
                                                                                  Subsequent:
                                                                                  $500
*After issuance of a First and Second offense all Third and Subsequent Offenses shall move
into the civil penalty category for Third & Subsequent Offenses.
 
   3.   Divided Highways with a Speed Limit Forty Five (45) Miles Per Hour Or
Higher:
      Any violation of subsection C1 which occurs on a divided highway with a
speed limit forty five (45) miles per hour or higher shall be subject to a
civil penalty as scheduled in the table below, and the civil penalty for any
violation committed in a designated construction zone (as provided by the Code
of Iowa), shall be doubled, as scheduled below, subject in any event to the
statutory limit on civil penalties applicable to municipal infractions.
Divided Highways with a Speed Limit 45 miles per hour or Higher
                                                     Fourth
                                Third &    Third     Offense
            First     Second    Subsequent Offense   Community   Constructio n
Over Speed  Offense   Offense   Offenses   Community Service     & School
Limit (MPH) Civil     Civil     Civil      Service   Options -   Zones Civil
            Penalties Penalties Penalties* Options   LMI         Penalties
                                                     Individuals
                                                     ONLY
Divided Highways with a Speed Limit 45 miles per hour or Higher
                                                     Fourth
                                Third &    Third     Offense
            First     Second    Subsequent Offense   Community   Constructio
Over Speed  Offense   Offense   Offenses   Community Service     n & School
Limit (MPH) Civil     Civil     Civil      Service   Options -   Zones Civil
            Penalties Penalties Penalties* Options   LMI         Penalties
                                                     Individuals
                                                     ONLY
1 - 5       N/A       N/A       N/A        N/A       N/A         $0
6 - 10      N/A       N/A       N/A        N/A       N/A         $100
11 - 15     N/A       N/A       N/A        N/A       N/A         $200
                                                                 1st Offense:
                      $150                                       $250
            $125      50%                  Community Community   2nd Offense:
16 - 20     Courtesy  reduction $175       Service   Service     $300
            Waiver    to $75               Available Available   3rd &
                                                                 Subsequent:
                                                                 $350
                                                                 1st Offense:
                                                     Extra       $300
                                                     Community   2nd Offense:
21 - 25     $150      $175      $200       N/A       Service     $350
                                                     Required    3rd &
                                                                 Subsequent:
                                                                 $400
                                                                 1st Offense:
                                                     Extra       $350
                                                     Community   2nd Offense:
26 - 30     $175      $200      $225       N/A       Service     $400
                                                     Required    3rd &
                                                                 Subsequent:
                                                                 $450
                                                                 1st Offense:
                                                     Extra       $400
                                                     Community   2nd Offense:
31 +        $200      $225      $250       N/A       Service     $450
                                                     Required    3rd &
                                                                 Subsequent:
                                                                 $500
*After issuance of a First and Second offense, all subsequent offenses shall
move into the civil penalty category for Third & Subsequent Offenses.
 
   E.   Challenging An Automated Speed Citation: Within thirty (30) days from
the date appearing at the top of a notice of Automated Speed Citation sent to
the Vehicle Owner, the Vehicle Owner may either pay the fee associated with the
citation or challenge the citation by submitting a written challenge to the
citation or requesting that a municipal infraction be filed pursuant to Iowa
Code § 364.22. Any such written challenge or request must be on a form
specified by and available from the City as indicated on the notice and be sent
to the City according to the instructions on that form. Upon receipt of a
written challenge, a Dubuque Police Officer shall determine whether the
citation should be rescinded. Within thirty (30) days after the City receives
such a challenge, the City shall notify the Vehicle Owner whether the challenge
to the Automated Speed Citation is successful, in which case, the citation
shall be rescinded. Otherwise, the citation shall stand. Thereafter, the City
may seek voluntary payment and/or file the citation as a municipal infraction
against the Vehicle Owner, all as set forth in subsection (F) hereof.
   F.   Failure To Timely Pay Or Challenge Automated Speed Citation: If the
recipient of an Automated Speed Citation does not either pay the fine by the
due date stated on the original citation or successfully challenge the citation
as provided herein, the City may file a municipal infraction against the
Vehicle Owner in accordance with City Code §
1-4-2  and § 364.22 of the Code of Iowa, seeking judgment for the violation and
the applicable civil penalty provided in subsections C and D, plus state-
mandated filing fees and court costs. If judgment is entered for the City in
the municipal infraction proceeding, the City may, subject to applicable law,
pursue enforcement of the judgment together with interest as permitted by law.
Collection of the judgment may include referral to the State of Iowa Offset
Program administered by the Department of Administrative Services, State
Accounting Enterprise, or any similar subsequent agency. Notwithstanding the
City's right to file a municipal infraction, the City may first seek voluntary
payment of the fine by sending a written request for payment to the Vehicle
Owner and/or referring the matter to a private service agent to conduct
collection in accordance with all applicable law.
   G.   Exemptions From Section 9-7-321.386: The following shall not be
considered violations of this ordinance:
      1.   The operator of the vehicle in question was issued a uniform traffic
citation for the violation in question pursuant to City Code section
9-7-321.285  or Chapter 321 of the Code of Iowa.
      2.   The violation occurred at any time after the vehicle in question or
its state registration plates were reported to a law enforcement agency as
having been stolen, provided, however, the vehicle or its plates had not been
recovered by the Vehicle Owner at the time of the alleged violation.
      3.   The vehicle in question was an authorized emergency vehicle.
      4.   The Dubuque Police Officer inspecting the recorded image determines
that the vehicle in question was lawfully participating in a funeral
procession.
The foregoing list of exemptions from Section
9-7-321.286  shall not be construed as limiting the defenses available to
challenge an Automated Speed Citation or defend against a municipal infraction.
(Ord. 52-23, 11-20-2023)
9-7-321.287: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.288: CONTROL OF VEHICLE:
   A.   A person operating a motor vehicle shall have the same vehicle under
control at all times.
   B.   A person operating a motor vehicle shall reduce the speed to a
reasonable and proper rate:
      1.   When approaching and passing a person walking in the traveled
portion of the public street.
      2.   When approaching and passing an animal which is being led, ridden,
or driven upon a public street.
      3.   When approaching and traversing a crossing or intersection of public
streets, or a sharp turn, curve, or steep descent in a public street.
      4.   When approaching and passing a fusee, flares, red reflector electric
lanterns, red reflectors, or red flags, or an emergency vehicle displaying a
revolving or flashing light.
      5.   When approaching and passing a slow moving vehicle displaying a
reflective device as provided by section 321.383, code of Iowa.
      6.   When approaching and passing through a road work zone. (Ord. 47-12,
8-20-2012)
9-7-321.289: SIGNS TO BE ERECTED:
On a street on which the rate of speed changes, other than primary roads and
extensions of primary roads, there shall be erected by the city suitable
standard signs showing the points at which the rate of speed changes on such
street and the maximum rate of speed in the district which the vehicle is
entering. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.290: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.291: SPEEDING VIOLATION FORM:
In every charge of violation of section
9-7-321.285 of this chapter the information and the notice to appear shall
specify the speed at which the defendant is alleged to have driven and also the
speed limit applicable within the district or at the location. (Ord. 44-08, 6-
16-2008)
9-7-321.292 - 9-7-321.293: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.294: MINIMUM SPEED:
No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law. Peace officers are
hereby authorized to enforce this provision by direction to drivers and in the
event of apparent wilful disobedience to this provision and refusal to comply
with directions of an officer in accordance herewith, the continued slow
operation by a driver shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.295 - 9-7-321.296: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 6. DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; OVERTAKING AND PASSING
9-7-321.297: DRIVING ON RIGHT HAND SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   A vehicle shall be driven upon the right half of the roadway upon all
roadways of sufficient width, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
      2.   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway, provided any person so doing shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon.
      4.   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic.
   B.   Any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed of traffic at the
time and place and under the conditions then existing shall be driven in the
right hand lane then available for traffic upon all roadways or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection, alley, private road, or driveway.
   C.   A vehicle shall not be driven upon any roadway having four (4) or more
lanes for moving traffic and providing for two-way movement of traffic to the
left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use such
lanes, or except as permitted under subsection A2 of this section. This
subsection shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the centerline
in making a left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway. (Ord.
44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.298: MEETING AND TURNING TO RIGHT:
Except as otherwise provided in section
9-7-321.297 of this chapter, vehicles meeting each other on any roadway shall
yield one-half (1/2) of the roadway by turning to the right. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-7-321.299: PASSING GENERALLY:
The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and
special rules hereinafter stated:
   A.   Except on one-way streets, the driver of a vehicle overtaking another
vehicle proceeding in the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a
safe distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until
safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   B.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on an audible signal and shall not increase the speed of
such driver's vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   C.   Any driver of a vehicle that is overtaken by a faster moving vehicle
who fails to heed the signal of the overtaking vehicle when it is given under
such circumstances that such driver could, by the exercise of ordinary care,
observation, and precaution, hear such signal and who fails to yield that part
of the traveled way as herein provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   D.   Upon proof that a signal was given as contemplated by subsection C of
this section, the burden shall rest upon the accused to prove that the accused
did not hear such signal. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.300 - 9-7-321.301: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.302: OVERTAKING, PASSING ON RIGHT:
   A.   Unless otherwise prohibited by law, the driver of a vehicle on a
roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for two (2) or more
lanes of traffic moving in the same direction as the vehicle being passed may
overtake and pass upon the right of another vehicle which is making or about to
make a left turn when such movement can be made in safety.
   B.   Unless otherwise prohibited by law, the driver of a vehicle may
overtake and, allowing sufficient clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction either upon the left or upon the right on a roadway with
unobstructed pavement of sufficient width of four (4) or more lines of moving
traffic when such movement can be made in safety.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive off the pavement or upon the
shoulder of the roadway or upon the apron or roadway of an intersecting roadway
in overtaking or passing on the right or the left.
   D.   A person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of a simple
misdemeanor punishable as a scheduled violation under Iowa Code section 805.8A,
subsection 6. (Ord. 56-13, 12-16-2013)
9-7-321.303: LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON LEFT:
Except on one-way streets, a vehicle shall not be driven to the left side of
the center of the roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding
in the same direction unless the left side is clearly visible and is free of
oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the overtaking and
passing to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of a
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or a vehicle overtaken. The
overtaking vehicle shall return to the right hand side of the roadway before
coming within three hundred feet (300') of a vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction when traveling on a roadway having a legal speed limit in
excess of thirty (30) miles per hour. The overtaking vehicle shall return to
the right hand side of the roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100')
of a vehicle approaching from the opposite direction when traveling on a
roadway having a legal speed limit of thirty (30) miles per hour or less. (Ord.
44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.304: PROHIBITED PASSING:
No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at any other
time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following conditions:
   A.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the highway
where the driver's view along the highway is obstructed for a distance of
approximately seven hundred feet (700').
   B.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of any narrow bridge,
viaduct, or tunnel, when so signposted, or when approaching within one hundred
feet (100') of or traversing any intersection or railroad grade crossing.
   C.   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to the
right, or a distinctive centerline or off centerline is marked, which
distinctive line also so directs traffic as declared in the sign manual adopted
by the department of transportation. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.305: ONE-WAY STREETS:
Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated as one-
way streets and signposted for one-way traffic, vehicles shall be driven only
in the direction designated.
   A.   Northerly: Traffic shall move northerly only:
         In the alley between Central Avenue and White Street, from East 4th
Street to East 5th Street.
         In the alley between Iowa Street and Central Avenue, from West 10th
Street to West 12th Street.
         In the alley between Locust Street and Main Street, from West 1st
Street to West 4th Street, and from West 6th Street to West 12th Street.
         On that portion of Elm Street lying east of the railroad tracks in
said street between East 24th Street and East 26th Street.
         On the east ramps of Kerrigan Road.
         On Locust Street, from 1st Street to West 16th Street.
         On U.S. 61/151 off ramp connection, from 9th Street to 11th Street.
         On U.S. 61/151 on ramp connection, from 9th Street to 11th Street.
         On White Street, from East 4th Street to East 21st Street.
   B.   Southerly: Traffic shall move southerly only:
         In the alley between Central Avenue and White Street from East 14th
Street to East 9th Street and from East 8th Street to East 5th Street.
         In the alley between Main Street and Iowa Street, from West 12th
Street to West 6th Street, and from West 4th Street to West 3rd Street.
         On Bluff Street, from West 16th Street to 1st Street.
         On Central Avenue, from East 21st Street to 4th Street.
         On the portion of Elm Street lying west of the railroad tracks in said
street from East 24th Street and East 26th Street.
         On the west ramps of Kerrigan Road.
         On St. Mary's Street, from West 3rd Street to Emmett Street.
         On Southern Avenue, from South Locust Street (U.S. Highway 61/151) to
Valley Street.
         On U.S. 61/151 on ramp connection, from 11th Street to 9th Street.
   C.   Westerly: Traffic shall move westerly only:
         On 10th Street, West, from Central Avenue to Bluff Street.
         On 11th Street, East, from Kerper Boulevard to Central Avenue.
         On 21st Street, East, from White Street to Central Avenue.
   D.   Easterly: Traffic shall move easterly only:
         On 1st Street, from Bluff Street to Locust Street.
         On 4th Street, from Central Avenue to White Street.
         On 9th Street, West, from Locust Street to Central Avenue.
         On 9th Street, East, from Central Avenue to Kerper Boulevard. (Ord.
44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.306: ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
Whenever any roadway has been divided into clearly marked lanes for traffic,
the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith shall apply:
   A.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety and consistent with any
pavement markings and/or official traffic control devices.
   B.   Upon a roadway which is divided, a vehicle shall not be driven in the
center lane except when:
      1.   Overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance and
said action is consistent with any pavement markings and/or official traffic
control devices;
      2.   In preparation for making a left turn when nearest the driveway or
intersection where the driver intends to turn; or
      3.   Where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to
traffic moving in the same direction the vehicle is proceeding and such
allocation is designated by pavement markings and/or official traffic control
devices.
   C.   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same
direction and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
   D.   Vehicles moving in a lane designated for slow moving traffic shall
yield the right of way to vehicles moving in the same direction in a lane not
so designated when such lanes merge to form a single lane. (Ord. 43-13, 8-5-
2013)
9-7-321.307: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street. (Ord. 44-08, 6-
16-2008)
DIVISION 7. TURNING AND STARTING AND SIGNALS ON STOPPING AND TURNING
9-7-321.311: TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as
follows:
   A.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
closely as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway and in
such a manner as to leave the intersection as nearly as practicable in the
right hand lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of
traffic of such vehicle.
   B.   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each intersecting street, an approach for a left turn shall be
made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof, and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as
to depart from the intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway
being entered.
   C.   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on one
or more of the intersecting streets, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn
left at any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme
left hand lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel
of such vehicle and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be
made so as to leave the intersection as nearly as practicable in the left hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway
being entered.
   D.   Where the special circumstances require, the city manager may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and
thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in this
section be traveled by vehicles turning at any intersection, and when markers,
buttons, or signs are so placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at
an intersection other than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or
signs. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.312: TURNING ON CURVES, HILLS:
No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, on the approach to, or near the crest of a grade or hill where such
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within five hundred feet (500'). (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.313: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-7-321.314: SIGNALS REQUIRED WHEN TURNING:
No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a street unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only after
giving a clearly audible signal by sounding a horn if any pedestrian may be
affected by such movement or after giving an appropriate signal in the manner
hereinafter provided in the event any other vehicle may be affected by such
movement. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.315: TURN SIGNAL TO BE CONTINUOUS:
A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given continuously during
not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the vehicle before
turning. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.316: SIGNAL REQUIRED WHEN STOPPING OR DECREASING SPEED SUDDENLY:
No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without first
giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this division to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.317: SIGNALS TO BE BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE:
   A.   The signals required under the provisions of this division may be given
either by means of the hand and arm as provided in section
9-7-321.318 of this chapter or by mechanical or electrical directional signal
device or light of a type approved by the state department of public safety.
   B.   When a vehicle is equipped with a directional signal device, such
device shall at all times be maintained in good working condition. No
directional signal device shall project a glaring or dazzling light. All
directional signal devices shall be self- illuminated when in use while other
lamps on the vehicle are lighted. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.318: METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS:
All signals required under this division which may be given by hand and arm
shall, when so given, be given from the left side of a vehicle and the
following manner and interpretation thereof is suggested:
   A.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   B.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
   C.   Stop or decrease of speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (Ord. 44-08,
6-16-2008)
DIVISION 8. RIGHT OF WAY
9-7-321.319: ENTERING INTERSECTIONS FROM DIFFERENT HIGHWAYS:
   A.   When two (2) vehicles enter an intersection from different highways or
public streets at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the
left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
   B.   The foregoing rule is modified at through highways and otherwise as
provided in this title and chapter 321 of the Iowa Code. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-7-321.320: LEFT TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection or
into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles approaching from the opposite direction which are within the
intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard. Then
said driver, having so yielded and having given a signal when and as required
by this title, may make such left turn. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.321: ENTERING THROUGH STREETS:
Except where yield signs or official traffic control signals are erected, the
driver of a vehicle shall stop or yield as required by this title at the
entrance to a through street and shall yield the right of way to other vehicles
which have entered the intersection from such through street or which are
approaching so closely on such through street as to constitute a hazard, but
such driver having so yielded may proceed cautiously and with due care. (Ord.
65-10, 12-20-2010)
9-7-321.322: STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Stop Intersections: The driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at the first opportunity at
either the clearly marked stop line, before entering the crosswalk, before
entering the intersection, or at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection. Before proceeding, the driver shall yield the
right of way to any vehicle on the intersecting roadway which has entered the
intersection or which is approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate
hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the intersection.
   B.   Yield Intersections: The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign
shall slow to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if required
for safety, shall stop at the first opportunity at either the clearly marked
stop line, before entering the crosswalk, before entering the intersection, or
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or stopping, the
driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle on the intersecting roadway
which has entered the intersection or which is approaching so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or
within the intersection.
   C.   Signs:
      1.   Stop signs shall be erected at entrances to through streets and at
one or more entrances to stop intersections. Every driver of a vehicle shall
stop at such sign or at a clearly marked stop line before entering an
intersection, except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic
control signal.
      2.   Yield signs shall be erected at the specified entrances to the yield
intersections designated and shall be located as near as practical to the
property line of the highway at the entrance at which the yield must be made,
or at the nearest line of the crosswalk thereat, or, if none, at the nearest
line of the roadway. (Ord. 65-10, 12-20-2010)
9-7-321.323: BACKING VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY:
No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in reverse gear
unless and until such operation can be made with reasonable safety and shall
yield the right of way to any approaching vehicle on the street, highway,
intersecting street, or intersecting highway thereto which is so close thereto
as to constitute an immediate hazard. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.324: OPERATION ON APPROACH OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle with any
lamp or device displaying a red light, authorized emergency vehicle of a fire
department displaying a blue light, or when the driver is giving audible signal
by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall
yield the right of way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to
and as close as possible to the right hand edge or curb of the highway clear of
any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer. For the purposes of this section, "red light" or "blue light"
means a light or lighting device that, when illuminated, will exhibit a solid
flashing or strobing red or blue light.
   B.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-7-321.324A: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
   A.   A funeral procession shall consist of those vehicles necessary to
transport the deceased, employees of the funeral home, and family members and
friends of the deceased.
   B.   All vehicles operated in a funeral procession shall have the headlights
on and in a low beam distribution.
   C.   All vehicles operated in a funeral procession shall display a flag or
other device containing the word "funeral". This device shall be placed on top
of the left front fender, roof, or on both sides of the vehicle in such a
manner as to be easily seen by other drivers.
   D.   The following shall apply to intersections and private roads:
      1.   A funeral procession which approaches an intersection provided with
a traffic signal which displays a red signal shall stop and remain stopped
until the signal is green. A funeral procession which enters intersection with
a green signal may continue without stopping until the last vehicle in the
procession has cleared the intersection, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer.
      2.   A funeral procession which approaches an intersection provided with
a stop sign shall stop and yield the right of way to those vehicles which are
approaching so close as to constitute a hazard. The funeral procession may then
enter and proceed through the intersection without stopping until the last
vehicle in the procession has cleared the intersection, unless otherwise
directed by a police officer.
      3.   A funeral procession which approaches an intersection provided with
a yield sign shall reduce speed and stop if necessary to yield the right of way
to vehicles which are approaching so close to constitute a hazard. Having so
yielded, a funeral procession may enter the intersection and proceed without
stopping until the last vehicle in the procession has cleared the intersection,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
      4.   A funeral procession which is emerging from a private roadway,
alley, driveway, or building shall stop immediately prior to entering the
sidewalk area and shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when there exists
no danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right of way to vehicles on
the street into which the funeral procession is entering which are so close as
to constitute a hazard. Having so yielded, a funeral procession may proceed
into the street being entered without stopping until the last vehicle in the
procession has entered the street, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   E.   No person operating a vehicle in a funeral procession shall disregard
regulations governing directions of movement or turning in specified
directions.
   F.   No person shall place any device or sign which limits access on any
roadway, or restricts parking in any metered or nonmetered area for the purpose
of lining up a funeral procession without prior written authorization from the
city manager's office.
   G.   No person shall drive a vehicle through a parade or procession unless
directed by a police officer.
   H.   A person who approaches a funeral procession which has lawfully entered
an intersection or street shall reduce speed and stop if necessary to yield the
right of way to the funeral procession until the last vehicle in the funeral
procession has cleared the intersection or entered the street from a private
driveway unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   I.   No person shall drive any vehicle in a parade or procession which has
not been authorized by the designated person in charge of the parade or
procession. The designated person in charge shall be that person whose name
appears on a parade or procession permit. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 8
PEDESTRIANS' RIGHTS AND DUTIES
SECTION:
9-8-321.326: Walking On Highways
9-8-321.327: Right Of Way
9-8-321.328: Use Of Crosswalks
9-8-321.329: Duty Of Driver
9-8-321.330: Reserved
9-8-321.331: Solicitation Of Rides
9-8-321.332: White Canes Restricted To Blind Persons
9-8-321.333: Duty Of Drivers Upon Approaching Blind Persons
9-8-321.326: WALKING ON HIGHWAYS:
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking along or on a highway, walk on the
left side of such highway. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-8-321.327: RIGHT OF WAY:
Where the traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver
of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if need be
to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the street within any marked crosswalk or
within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, except as otherwise provided
in this title. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-8-321.328: USE OF CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Within two hundred feet (200') of any marked crosswalk in the city of
Dubuque, pedestrians must use the marked crosswalk to cross the roadway.
   B.   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   C.   Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point more than two hundred
feet (200') from a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Ord. 38-16, 8-1-2016)
9-8-321.329: DUTY OF DRIVER:
   A.   Every driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to pedestrian
workers engaged in maintenance or construction work on a street or highway
whenever the driver is notified of the presence of such workers by a flagman or
a warning sign.
   B.   Every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding
with any pedestrian upon any street and shall give warning by sounding the horn
when necessary and shall exercise due care upon observing any child or any
confused or incapacitated person upon a street. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-8-321.330: RESERVED:
(Ord. 38-16, 8-1-2016)
9-8-321.331: SOLICITATION OF RIDES:
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride
from the driver of any private vehicle.
   B.   Nothing in this section or title shall be construed so as to prevent
any pedestrian from standing on that portion of the street or highway, not
ordinarily used for vehicular traffic, for the purpose of soliciting a ride
from the driver of any vehicle. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-8-321.332: WHITE CANES RESTRICTED TO BLIND PERSONS:
For the purpose of guarding against accidents in traffic on the public
thoroughfares, it shall be unlawful for any person except persons wholly or
partially blind to carry or use on the streets, highways, and public places of
the city any white canes or walking sticks which are white in color or white
tipped with red. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-8-321.333: DUTY OF DRIVERS UPON APPROACHING BLIND PERSONS:
Any driver of a vehicle or operator of a motor driven vehicle who approaches or
comes in contact with a person wholly or partially blind carrying a cane or
walking stick white in color or white tipped with red or being led by a guide
dog wearing a harness and walking on either side of or slightly in front of
said blind person shall immediately come to a complete stop and take such
precautions as may be necessary to avoid accident or injury to the person
carrying a cane or walking stick white in color or white tipped with red or
being led by a guide dog. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 9
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
SECTION:
9-9-321.341: Stop Required In Obedience To Signal Of Train
9-9-321.342: Reserved
9-9-321.343: Certain Vehicles Must Stop At Railroad Crossings
9-9-321.344 – 9-9-321.352: Reserved
9-9-321.353: Entering Street From Private Roadway
9-9-321.354 – 9-9-321.357: Reserved
9-9-321.358: Stopping, Standing Or Parking
9-9-321.359 – 9-9-321.361: Reserved
9-9-321.341: STOP REQUIRED IN OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL OF TRAIN:
   A.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing and warning is given by automatic signal, crossing gates, a flagman,
or otherwise of the immediate approach of a train, the driver of such vehicle
shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than ten feet (10') from the
nearest track of such railroad and shall not proceed until the driver can do so
safely.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle shall stop and remain standing and not traverse
such a grade crossing when a crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman
gives or continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a train.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-9-321.342: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-9-321.343: CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP AT RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
   A.   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, any
school bus carrying any schoolchild, or of any vehicle carrying explosive
substances, flammable liquids, or other hazardous materials as defined by the
federal department of transportation, 49 code of federal regulations, section
170 to section 189 of 1975, as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing at
grade any track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle within fifty
feet (50') but not less than ten feet (10') from the nearest rail of such
railroad and while so stopped shall listen and look in both directions along
such track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train except as hereinafter provided and shall not proceed until such driver
can do so safely.
   B.   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or
traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed. No stop need be made at a
crossing designated by an "exempt" sign. An "exempt" sign shall be posted only
where the tracks have been partially removed on either side of the roadway.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-9-321.344 – 9-9-321.352: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-9-321.353: ENTERING STREET FROM PRIVATE ROADWAY:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley,
driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving on
the sidewalk area and thereafter such driver shall proceed into the sidewalk
area only when such driver can do so without danger to pedestrian traffic, and
such driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicular traffic on the street
into which such driver's vehicle is entering.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a
private road or driveway shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving
on such highway and shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on
such highway. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-9-321.354 – 9-9-321.357: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-9-321.358: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING:
See section
9-14-321.600 of this title. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-9-321.359 – 9-9-321.361: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 10
MISCELLANEOUS RULES
SECTION:
9-10-321.362: Responsibility When Leaving Motor Vehicle Unattended
9-10-321.363: Obstruction To Driver's View
9-10-321.363A: Duty Of Driver Approaching Crest Of Hills, Blind Curves
9-10-321.364: Reserved
9-10-321.365: Coasting
9-10-321.366: Reserved
9-10-321.367: Following Fire Apparatus
9-10-321.368: Crossing Fire Hose
9-10-321.369 – 9-10-321.370: Reserved
9-10-321.371: Cleaning Up Wrecks
9-10-321.362: RESPONSIBILITY WHEN LEAVING MOTOR VEHICLE UNATTENDED:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine or when standing upon any
perceptible grade without effectively setting the brake thereon and turning the
front wheels to the curb or side of the highway. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-10-321.363: OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded or when there are
in the front seat such number of persons exceeding three (3) as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with
the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with the driver's
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-10-321.363A: DUTY OF DRIVER APPROACHING CREST OF HILLS, BLIND CURVES:
The driver of a motor vehicle traveling through defiles or on approaching the
crest of a hill or grade shall have such motor vehicle under control and on the
right hand side of the roadway and upon approaching any curve where the view is
obstructed within a distance of two hundred feet (200') along the highway shall
give audible warning with the horn of such motor vehicle. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-10-321.364: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-10-321.365: COASTING:
   A.   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a downgrade shall
not coast with the gears of such vehicle in neutral.
   B.   The driver of any commercial motor vehicle when traveling upon a
downgrade shall not coast with the clutch disengaged. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-10-321.366: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-10-321.367: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS:
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five
hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where
fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-10-321.368: CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department when
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire without the consent of the fire department official in command. (Ord. 44-
08, 6-16-2008)
9-10-321.369 – 9-10-321.370: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-10-321.371: CLEANING UP WRECKS:
Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street shall remove any
glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the street from such vehicle.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 11
SCHOOL BUSES
SECTION:
9-11-321.372: School Buses Discharging Pupils
9-11-321.372A: Prompt Investigation Of Reported Violation Of Failing To Obey
School Bus Warning Devices - Citation Issued To Driver Or Owner
9-11-321.372: SCHOOL BUSES DISCHARGING PUPILS:
   A.   Driver Responsibilities: The driver of a school bus used to transport
children to and from a public or private school must, when stopping to receive
or discharge pupils, turn on flashing warning lamps at a distance of not less
than three hundred feet (300') nor more than five hundred feet (500') from the
point where the pupils are to be received or discharged from the bus if the
speed limit at that point is forty five (45) miles per hour or greater and must
turn on flashing warning lamps at a distance of not less than one hundred fifty
feet (150') from the point where the pupils are to be received or discharged
from the bus if the speed limit at that point is less than forty five (45)
miles per hour. At the point of receiving or discharging pupils, the driver of
the bus must bring the bus to a stop, turn off the amber flashing warning
lamps, turn on the red flashing warning lamps, and extend the stop arm. After
receiving or discharging pupils, the bus driver must turn off all flashing
warning lamps, retract the stop arm and proceed on the route. Except to the
extent that reduced visibility is caused by fog, snow, or other weather
conditions, a school bus will not stop to receive or discharge pupils unless
there is at least three hundred feet (300') of unobstructed vision in each
direction. However, the driver of a school bus is not required to use flashing
warning lamps and the stop arm when receiving or discharging pupils at a
designated loading and unloading zone at a school attendance center or at
extracurricular or educational activity locations where students exiting the
bus do not have to cross the street or highway.
If a school district contracts with an urban transit system to transport
children to and from a public or private school, the school bus which is
provided by the urban transit system is not required to be equipped with
flashing warning lights and a stop arm.
If the school bus provided by an urban transit system is equipped with flashing
warning lights and a stop arm, the driver of the school bus must use the
flashing warning lights and stop arm as required by law.
A school bus, when operating on a highway with four (4) or more lanes, will not
stop to load or unload pupils who must cross the highway, except at designated
stops where pupils who must cross the highway may do so at points where there
are official traffic control devices or police officers.
A school bus must, while carrying passengers, have its headlights turned on.
   B.   Entrance/Exit For Pupils: All pupils will be received and discharged
from the right front entrance of every school bus and if said pupils must cross
the highway, they are required to pass in front of the bus, look in both
directions, and proceed to cross the highway only on signal from the bus
driver.
   C.   Driver Responsibilities: The driver of any vehicle, including the
driver of a vehicle operating on a private road or driveway, when meeting a
school bus with flashing amber warning lamps must reduce the vehicle's speed to
not more than twenty (20) miles per hour and must bring the vehicle to a
complete stop when the school bus stops and the stop signal arm is extended and
the vehicle must remain stopped until the stop signal arm is retracted after
which time the driver may proceed with due caution. The driver of a vehicle,
including the driver of a vehicle operating on a private road or driveway,
overtaking a school bus will not pass a school bus when red or amber warning
signal lights are flashing and must bring the vehicle to a complete stop no
closer than fifteen feet (15') from the school bus when it is stopped and the
stop arm is extended and the vehicle must remain stopped until the stop arm is
retracted and school bus resumes motion.
   D.   Bus Traveling Two Lane Highway: The driver of a vehicle upon a highway
providing two (2) or more lanes in each direction need not stop upon meeting a
school bus which is traveling in the opposite direction even though the school
bus is stopped.
   E.   Penalties:
      1.   The driver of a school bus who commits a violation of subsection A
or B of this section is guilty of a simple misdemeanor punishable as a
scheduled violation under Iowa Code section 805.8A, subsection 10.
      2.   A person who commits a violation of subsection C of this section is
subject to the following:
         a.   For a first offense, the person is guilty of a simple misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of at least three hundred forty-five dollars but not more
than nine hundred thirty dollars or by imprisonment for not more than thirty
days, or by both. The department may require the person to attend and
successfully complete, at the person's own expense, a driver improvement
program approved by the department in lieu of driver's license suspension for
the offense pursuant to section 321.210.
         b.   For a second or subsequent offense, the person shall be charged
under Iowa Code section 321.372 as a serious misdemeanor. (Ord. 27-15, 4-20-
2015; amd. Ord. 18-22, 4-18-2022)
9-11-321.372A: PROMPT INVESTIGATION OF REPORTED VIOLATION OF FAILING TO OBEY
SCHOOL BUS WARNING DEVICES - CITATION ISSUED TO DRIVER OR OWNER:
   A.   The driver of a school bus who observes a violation of subsection
9-11-321.372C of this chapter, may prepare a written report on a form provided
by the department of public safety indicating that a violation has occurred.
The school bus driver or a school official may deliver the report not more than
seventy two (72) hours after the violation occurred to a peace officer of the
state or a peace officer of the county or municipality in which the violation
occurred. The report must state the time and the location at which the
violation occurred and must include the registration plate number and a
description of the vehicle involved in the violation.
   B.   Not more than seven (7) calendar days after receiving a report of a
violation of subsection
9-11-321.372C of this chapter, from a school bus driver or a school official,
the peace officer must initiate an investigation of the reported violation and
contact the owner of the motor vehicle involved in the reported violation and
request that the owner supply information identifying the driver.
      1.   If, from the investigation, the peace officer is able to identify
the driver and has reasonable cause to believe a violation of subsection
9-11-321.372C of this chapter, has occurred, the peace officer shall prepare a
uniform traffic citation for the violation and shall serve it personally or by
certified mail to the driver of the vehicle.
      2.   If, from the investigation, the peace officer has reasonable cause
to believe that a violation of subsection
9-11-321.372C of this chapter, occurred but is unable to identify the driver,
the peace officer shall serve a uniform traffic citation for the violation to
the owner of the motor vehicle. In a proceeding where the peace officer who
conducted the investigation was not able to identify the driver of the motor
vehicle, proof that the motor vehicle described in the uniform traffic citation
was used to commit the violation of subsection
9-11-321.372C of this chapter, together with proof that the defendant named in
the citation was the owner of the motor vehicle at the time the violation
occurred, constitutes a permissible inference that the owner was the driver who
committed the violation.
      3.   For purposes of this subsection, "owner" means a person who holds
the legal title to a motor vehicle; however, if the motor vehicle is the
subject of a security agreement with a right of possession in the debtor, the
debtor shall be deemed the owner for purposes of this subsection, or if the
motor vehicle is leased, the lessee shall be deemed the owner for purposes of
this subsection. (Ord. 27-15, 4-20-2015)
CHAPTER 12
EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
Division 1. Safety Standards
9-12-321.381: Movement Of Unsafe Or Improperly Equipped Vehicles
9-12-321.381A: Sale Of Unsafe Vehicles
9-12-321.382: Upgrade Pulls; Minimum Speed
9-12-321.383: Reserved
Division 2. Lighting Equipment
9-12-321.384: When Lighted Lamps Required
9-12-321.385: Headlamps On Motor Vehicles
9-12-321.386: Headlamps On Motorcycles And Motorized Bicycles
9-12-321.387: Rear Lamps
9-12-321.388: Illuminating Plates
9-12-321.389 – 9-12-321.391: Reserved
9-12-321.392: Clearance And Identification Lights On Trucks, Trailers, And
Semitrailers
9-12-321.393: Reserved
9-12-321.394: Lamp Or Flag On Projecting Load
9-12-321.395: Lamps On Parked Vehicles
9-12-321.396 – 9-12-321.397: Reserved
9-12-321.398: Lamps On Other Vehicles And Equipment
9-12-321.399 – 9-12-321.401: Reserved
9-12-321.402: Spot Lamps
9-12-321.403: Reserved
9-12-321.404: Signal Lamps And Devices
9-12-321.405 – 9-12-321.408: Reserved
9-12-321.409: Mandatory Lighting Equipment
9-12-321.410 – 9-12-321.414: Reserved
9-12-321.415: Required Usage Of Lighting Devices
9-12-321.416 – 9-12-321.421: Reserved
9-12-321.422: Red Light In Front
9-12-321.423 – 9-12-321.429: Reserved
Division 3. Brakes, Hitches, And Sway Control
9-12-321.430: Brake Requirements
9-12-321.431: Performance Ability Of Brakes
Division 4. Miscellaneous Equipment
9-12-321.432: Horns And Warning Devices
9-12-321.433: Sirens And Bells Prohibited
9-12-321.434 – 9-12-321.435: Reserved
9-12-321.436: Mufflers, Prevention Of Noise
9-12-321.437: Mirrors
9-12-321.438: Windshields And Windows
9-12-321.439: Windshield Wipers
9-12-321.440: Restrictions As To Tire Equipment
9-12-321.441: Metal Tires Prohibited
9-12-321.442: Projections On Wheels
9-12-321.443 – 9-12-321.444: Reserved
9-12-321.445: Safety Belts And Safety Harnesses
9-12-321.446: Child Restraint Devices
9-12-321.447 – 9-12-321.454: Reserved
DIVISION 1. SAFETY STANDARDS
9-12-321.381: MOVEMENT OF UNSAFE OR IMPROPERLY EQUIPPED VEHICLES:
It is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section 321.482 of the code of
Iowa, for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause or knowingly
permit to be driven or moved on any street any vehicle or combination of
vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person, or which
does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped with such lamps
and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as required in this
title or which is equipped with one or more unsafe tires or which is equipped
in any manner in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.381A: SALE OF UNSAFE VEHICLES:
No person shall have for sale, sell, or offer for sale any motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps, brakes, and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment
as required in this chapter, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this title. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.382: UPGRADE PULLS; MINIMUM SPEED:
No motor vehicle or combination of vehicles which cannot proceed up to three
percent (3%) grade on dry concrete pavement at a minimum speed of twenty (20)
miles per hour shall be operated on the streets of the city. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-12-321.383: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 2. LIGHTING EQUIPMENT
9-12-321.384: WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS REQUIRED:
   A.   Every motor vehicle upon a street within the city, at any time from
sunset to sunrise, and at such other times when conditions such as fog, rain,
snow, or sleet provide insufficient lighting to render clearly discernible
persons and vehicles on the street at a distance of five hundred feet (500')
ahead shall display lighted headlamps, subject to exceptions with respect to
parked vehicles as provided in this title.
   B.   Whenever requirements are hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible, said provisions shall apply during the
times stated in subsection A of this section upon a straight, level, unlighted
highway under normal atmospheric conditions unless a different time or
condition is expressly stated. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.385: HEADLAMPS ON MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle shall
be equipped with at least two (2) headlamps with at least one on each side of
the front of the motor vehicle, which headlamps shall comply with the
requirements set forth in this section.
   B.   At all times specified in subsection
9-12-321.384A of this chapter, at least two (2) lighted lamps, except where one
only is permitted, shall be displayed, one at each side at the front of every
motor vehicle except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations
governing lights on parked vehicles. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.386: HEADLAMPS ON MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES:
Every motorcycle and motorized bicycle shall be equipped with at least one and
not more than two (2) headlamps which shall comply with the requirements and
limitations set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.387: REAR LAMPS:
Every motor vehicle and every vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a
train of vehicles shall be equipped with a lighted rear lamp exhibiting a red
light plainly visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.388: ILLUMINATING PLATES:
The rear lamp shall be so constructed and placed as to illuminate with a white
light the rear registration plate and render it clearly legible from a distance
of fifty feet (50') to the rear. When the rear registration plate is
illuminated by an electric lamp other than the required rear lamp, the two (2)
lamps shall be turned on or off only by the same control switch at all times
when headlamps are lighted. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.389 – 9-12-321.391: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.392: CLEARANCE AND IDENTIFICATION LIGHTS ON TRUCKS, TRAILERS, AND
SEMITRAILERS:
All requirements of the motor vehicle laws of the state relating to clearance
and identification lights of trucks, trailers, or semitrailers shall be
complied with in the operation of such vehicle within the city. (Ord. 44-08, 6-
16-2008)
9-12-321.393: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.394: LAMP OR FLAG ON PROJECTING LOAD:
   A.   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet (4')
or more beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in subsection
9-12-321.384A of this chapter, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required under this section shall be in addition to the red
rear light required upon every vehicle.
   B.   At any other time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of
such load a red flag or cloth not less than sixteen (16) square inches. (Ord.
44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.395: LAMPS ON PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto outside of a business district, whether attended or
unattended, during the time lights are required under subsection
9-12-321.384A of this chapter, such vehicle shall be equipped with one or more
lamps which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the roadway side visible
from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front of such vehicle and a
red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear,
unless there is sufficient illumination on the street where the vehicle is
located to reveal any person or object within a distance of five hundred feet
(500') upon such street.
   B.   Lamps on parked or stopped vehicles, except trucks, trailers, or
semitrailers as defined in section 321.392 of the Iowa Code, required to be
exhibited by this section, but not including running lights, shall not be
lighted at any time when the vehicle is being driven on the highway unless the
headlamps are also lighted. Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall
be depressed or dimmed. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.396 – 9-12-321.397: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.398: LAMPS ON OTHER VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT:
All vehicles including animal drawn vehicles and including those referred to in
section
9-12-321.384 of this chapter, not hereinbefore specifically required to be
equipped with lamps, shall at all times specified in section
9-12-321.384 of this chapter be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or
lantern exhibiting a white light visible from a distance of five hundred feet
(500') to the front of such vehicle and, except for animal drawn vehicles, with
a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the rear. Animal drawn vehicles shall be equipped with a
flashing amber light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the
rear of the vehicle during the time specified in section
9-12-321.384 of this chapter. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.399 – 9-12-321.401: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.402: SPOT LAMPS:
Any motor vehicle may not be equipped with more than one spot lamp and every
lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicle
that no part of the high intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the
left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor more than
one hundred feet (100') ahead of the vehicle. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.403: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.404: SIGNAL LAMPS AND DEVICES:
Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a signal lamp or signal device which
is so constructed and located on the vehicle as to give a signal of intention
to stop, which shall be red or yellow in color, which signal shall be plainly
visible and understandable in normal sunlight and at night from a distance of
one hundred feet (100') to the rear, but shall not project a glaring or
dazzling light. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.405 – 9-12-321.408: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.409: MANDATORY LIGHTING EQUIPMENT:
Except as hereinafter provided, the headlamps, auxiliary driving lamp,
auxiliary passing lamp, or a combination thereof on motor vehicles, other than
motorcycles or motorized bicycles, shall be so arranged that the driver may
select at will between distributions of light projected to different elevations
and such lamps may, in addition, be so arranged that such selection can be made
automatically, subject to the following limitations:
   A.   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light or composite beam so
aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of
at least three hundred fifty feet (350') ahead for all conditions.
   B.   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light or composite beam so
aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least one hundred feet (100') ahead. On a straight, level road under any
condition of loading none of the high intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.
   C.   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle,
which has multiple beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam
indicator which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light
from the headlamps is in use and shall not otherwise be lighted. The indicator
shall be so designed and located that when lighted it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle so equipped. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.410 – 9-12-321.414: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.415: REQUIRED USAGE OF LIGHTING DEVICES:
   A.   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in subsection
9-12-321.384A of this chapter, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or
composite beam directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal
persons and vehicles at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to
the requirements and limitations of subsections B and C of this section.
   B.   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
one thousand feet (1,000'), the driver shall use a distribution of light or
composite beam so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes
of the oncoming driver. The lowermost distribution of light or composite beam
specified in subsection
9-12-321.409B of this chapter shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times,
regardless of road contour and loading.
   C.   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within four
hundred feet (400') to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking
and passing, such driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under
this chapter other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in
subsection
9-12-321.409A of this chapter.
   D.   The provisions of subsections B and C of this section do not apply to
motorcycles or motorized bicycles being operated between sunrise and sunset.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.416 – 9-12-321.421: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.422: RED LIGHT IN FRONT:
   A.   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any highway
with any lamp or device thereon displaying or reflecting a red light visible
from directly in front thereof.
   B.   No person shall display any color of light other than red on the rear
of any vehicle, except that stop lights and directional signals may be red,
yellow, or amber. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.423 – 9-12-321.429: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 3. BRAKES, HITCHES, AND SWAY CONTROL
9-12-321.430: BRAKE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the
movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle, including two (2) separate means
of applying the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the
brakes to at least two (2) wheels. If these two (2) separate means of applying
the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure
of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle
without brakes on at least two (2) wheels.
   B.   Every motorcycle and motorized bicycle when operated upon a highway
shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be operated by hand or
foot.
   C.   Every trailer or semitrailer of a gross weight of three thousand
(3,000) pounds or more and every trailer coach or travel trailer of a gross
weight of three thousand (3,000) pounds or more intended for use for human
habitation, when operated on the roadways of this city, shall be equipped with
brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle
and so designed as to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from
its cab, or with self-actuating brakes, and weight equalizing hitch with a sway
control of a type approved by the director. Every semitrailer, travel trailer,
or trailer coach of a gross weight of three thousand (3,000) pounds or more
shall be equipped with a separate auxiliary means of applying the brakes on the
semitrailer, travel trailer, or trailer coach from the cab of the towing
vehicle. Trailers or semitrailers with a truck or truck tractor need only
comply with the brake requirements.
   D.   Except as otherwise provided in this title, every new motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer hereafter sold in this state and operated upon the
highways shall be equipped with service brakes upon all wheels of every such
vehicle with the following exceptions:
      1.   Any motorcycle and motorized bicycle.
      2.   Any trailer or semitrailer of less than three thousand (3,000)
pounds' gross weight need not be equipped with brakes.
      3.   Trucks and truck tractors having three (3) or more axles need not
have brakes on the front wheels, except that such vehicles equipped with two
(2) or more front axles shall be equipped with brakes on at least one of such
axles; provided that the service brakes of such vehicle comply with the
performance requirements of section
9-12-321.431 of this chapter.
      4.   Only such brakes on the vehicle or vehicles being towed in a
driveaway-towaway operation need be operative as may be necessary to ensure
compliance by the combination of vehicles with the performance requirements of
section
9-12-321.431 of this chapter. The term "driveaway-towaway operation" as used in
this subsection means any operation in which any motor vehicle or motor
vehicles, new or used, constitute the commodity being transported, when one set
or more of wheels of any such motor vehicle or motor vehicles are on the
roadway during the course of transportation, whether or not any such motor
vehicle furnishes the motive power. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.431: PERFORMANCE ABILITY OF BRAKES:
   A.   The service brakes upon any motor vehicle or combination of motor
vehicles, when upon dry asphalt or concrete pavement surface free from loose
material where the grade does not exceed one percent (1%), when traveling
twenty (20) miles an hour shall be adequate:
      1.   To stop such vehicle or vehicles having a gross weight of less than
five thousand (5,000) pounds within a distance of thirty feet (30').
      2.   To stop such vehicle or vehicles having a gross weight in excess of
five thousand (5,000) pounds within a distance of forty five feet (45').
   B.   Under the above conditions, the hand brake shall be adequate to hold
such vehicle or vehicles stationary on any grade upon which operated.
   C.   Under the above conditions, the service brakes upon a motor vehicle
equipped with two-wheel brakes only, and when permitted hereunder, shall be
adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of forty five feet (45') and the
hand brake adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of fifty five feet
(55').
   D.   All braking distances specified in this section shall apply to all
vehicles mentioned, whether such vehicles are not loaded or are loaded to the
maximum capacity permitted under this title.
   E.   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be so
adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels on
opposite sides of the vehicle. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 4. MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT
9-12-321.432: HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES:
Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street shall be equipped with a horn
in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'), but no
horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound or
a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with such driver's horn but shall
not otherwise use such horn when upon a street. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.433: SIRENS AND BELLS PROHIBITED:
No vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a vehicle, any
siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this section. It is
permissible but not required that any vehicle be equipped with a theft alarm
signal device which is so arranged that it cannot be used by the driver as an
ordinary warning signal. Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with
a siren, whistle, or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500') and of a
type approved by the department, but such siren shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or in the immediate
pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which said latter
events the driver of such vehicle shall sound such siren when necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.434 – 9-12-321.435: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.436: MUFFLERS, PREVENTION OF NOISE:
   A.   Every motor vehicle must at all times be equipped with a muffler in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive noise or
annoying smoke.
   B.   The following constitutes evidence of a prima facie violation of this
section:
      1.   The use of a muffler cutout, bypass, or similar device upon a motor
vehicle upon a street;
      2.   Equipment marked with either "off road use" or "not for street use";
      3.   Excessive revving and/or acceleration which can be heard at a
distance of at least two hundred feet (200'); or
      4.   The operation of a vehicle making excessive noise so as to be
audible at a distance of at least two hundred feet (200') from the motor
vehicle. (Ord. 32-12, 5-7-2012)
9-12-321.437: MIRRORS:
Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to
the driver a view of the street for a distance of at least two hundred feet
(200') to the rear of such vehicle. Any motor vehicle so loaded or towing
another vehicle in such manner as to obstruct the view in a rearview mirror
located in the driver's compartment shall be equipped with a side mirror so
located that the view to the rear will not be obstructed. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-12-321.438: WINDSHIELDS AND WINDOWS:
   A.   A person shall not drive a motor vehicle equipped with a windshield,
side wings, or side or rear windows which do not permit clear vision.
   B.   A person shall not operate on the highway a motor vehicle equipped with
a front windshield, a side window to the immediate right or left of the driver,
or a side wing forward of and to the left or right of the driver which is
excessively dark or reflective so that it is difficult for a person outside the
motor vehicle to see into the motor vehicle through the windshield, window, or
side wing.
   C.   Every motor vehicle except a motorcycle or a vehicle included in the
provisions of section 321.383 or 321.115 of the code of Iowa shall be equipped
with a windshield in accordance with section 321.444 of the code of Iowa. (Ord.
44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.439: WINDSHIELD WIPERS:
The windshield of every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device for
cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device shall
be constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the vehicle.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.440: RESTRICTIONS AS TO TIRE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one inch (1") thick above the edge of the flange of
the entire periphery. Any pneumatic tire on a vehicle shall be considered
unsafe if it has:
      1.   Any part of the ply or cord exposed;
      2.   Any bump, bulge, or separation;
      3.   A tread design depth of less than one-sixteenth inch (1/16")
measured in any two (2) or more adjacent tread grooves, exclusive of tie bars
or, for those tires with tread wear indicators, worn to the level of the tread
wear indicators in any two (2) tread grooves;
      4.   A marking "not for highway use", "for racing purposes only", "unsafe
for highway use";
      5.   Tread or sidewall cracks, cuts, or snags deep enough to expose the
body cord;
      6.   Such other conditions as may be reasonably demonstrated to render it
unsafe;
      7.   Been regrooved or recut below the original tread design depth,
excepting special tires which have extra undertread rubber and are identified
as such; or
   B.   If a pneumatic tire was originally designed without grooves or tread,
the safety standards therefor shall be established by the director. (Ord. 44-
08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.441: METAL TIRES PROHIBITED:
No person shall operate or move on any street any motor vehicle, trailer, or
semitrailer having any metal tire or metal track in contact with the roadway.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.442: PROJECTIONS ON WHEELS:
No tire on a vehicle moved on a street shall have on its periphery any block,
stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberances of any material other
than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire
except that it shall be permissible to use:
   A.   Farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure
the street.
   B.   Tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required
for safety because of snow, ice, or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle
to skid.
   C.   Pneumatic tires with inserted ice grips or tire studs projecting not
more than one-sixteenth inch (1/16") beyond the tread of the traction surface
of the tire upon any vehicle from November 1 of each year to April 1 of the
following year, except that a school bus and fire department emergency
apparatus may use such tires at any time. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.443 – 9-12-321.444: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.445: SAFETY BELTS AND SAFETY HARNESSES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any driver or front seat occupant of a 1966
model year or newer model motor vehicle which is subject to registration in
Iowa, except a motorcycle or a motorized bicycle, not to wear a properly
adjusted and fastened safety belt or safety harness any time the vehicle is in
forward motion on a street in this city, except that a child under eighteen
(18) years of age shall be secured as required under section
9-12-321.446 of this chapter. The safety belt or safety harness system used in
the vehicle must meet standards as required under state of Iowa Code section
321.445(1) for safety belts and safety harnesses. (Ord. 35-10, 6-21-2010, eff.
7-1-2010)
This section shall not apply to:
      1.   The driver or front seat occupant of a motor vehicle which is not
required to be equipped for safety belts or safety harnesses under rules
adopted by the Iowa department of transportation.
      2.   The driver and front seat occupants of a motor vehicle who are
actively engaged in work which requires them to alight from and reenter the
vehicle at frequent intervals, provided the vehicle does not exceed twenty five
(25) miles per hour between stops.
      3.   The driver of a motor vehicle while performing duties as a rural
letter carrier for the U.S. postal service. This exemption applies between the
first delivery point after leaving the post office and the last delivery point
before returning to the post office.
      4.   Passengers of a bus. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
      5.   A person possessing a written certification from a healthcare
provider licensed under Iowa Code, on a form provided by the Iowa department of
transportation that the person is unable to wear a safety belt or safety
harness due to physical or medical reasons. The certification shall specify the
time period for which the exemption applies. The time period shall not exceed
twelve (12) months, at which time a new certification may be issued. (Ord. 35-
10, 6-21-2010, eff. 7-1-2010)
      6.   Front seat occupants of an authorized emergency vehicle while they
are being transported in an emergency. However, this exemption does not apply
to the driver of the authorized emergency vehicle. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
   B.   The driver and front seat passengers may each be charged separately for
improperly used or nonused equipment under subsection A of this section.
However, the driver shall not be charged for a violation committed by a
passenger who is fourteen (14) years of age or older unless the passenger is
unable to properly fasten a seat belt due to a temporary or permanent
disability. The owner of the motor vehicle may be charged for equipment
violations. (Ord. 35-10, 6-21-2010, eff. 7-1-2010)
   C.   The provisions adopted by the Iowa department of transportation,
pursuant to Iowa Code section 321.445(5), for front seats and front seat
passengers of motor vehicles owned, leased, rented, or primarily used by
persons with physical disabilities who use collapsible wheelchairs are hereby
adopted by the city. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-12-321.446: CHILD RESTRAINT DEVICES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle
transporting a child under one year or weighing less than twenty (20) pounds in
a motor vehicle which is subject to registration by the state, except a school
bus or motorcycle, without first securing the child in a rear facing child
restraint system which meets federal motor vehicle safety standards and used in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle
transporting a child under six (6) years of age who does not meet the
description in subsection A of this section in a motor vehicle which is subject
to registration by the state, except a school bus or motorcycle, without first
securing the child in a child restraint system which is used in accordance with
the manufacturer's instructions. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
   C.   A child at least six (6) years of age but under eighteen (18) years of
age who is being transported in a motor vehicle subject to registration by the
state, except a school bus or motorcycle, shall be secured during transit by a
child restraint system that is used in accordance with the manufacturer's
instruction or by a safety belt or safety harness. The safety belt or safety
harness system used in the vehicle must meet standards as required under Iowa
Code section 321.445(1) for safety belts and safety harnesses.
   D.   This section does not apply to the following: (Ord. 36-10, 6-21-2010,
eff. 7-1-2010)
      1.   Peace officers acting on official duty;
      2.   Transportation of children in 1965 model year or older vehicles;
      3.   Authorized emergency vehicles;
      4.   Buses;
      5.   Motor homes, except when a child is transported in a motor home
passenger seat situated directly to the driver's right; or (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
      6.   The transportation of a child who has been certified by a physician
licensed under Iowa Code, as having a medical, physical, or mental condition
which prevents or makes inadvisable securing the child in a child restraint
system, safety belt, or safety harness.
      7.   A back seat occupant of a motor vehicle for whom no safety belt is
available because all safety belts are being used by other occupants or cannot
be used due to the use of a child restraint system in the seating position for
which a belt is provided.
   E.   A person who violates this section is guilty of a simple misdemeanor
punishable as a scheduled violation under Iowa Code section 805.8A, subsection
14, paragraph c. Violations shall be charged as follows:
      1.   An operator who transports a passenger under fourteen (14) years of
age in violation of subsection A, B, or C of this section may be charged with a
violation of this section.
      2.   If a passenger fourteen (14) years of age or older is unable to
properly fasten a seat belt due to a temporary or permanent disability, an
operator who transports such a person in violation of subsection C of this
section may be charged with a violation of this section. Otherwise, a passenger
fourteen (14) years of age or older who violates subsection C of this section
shall be charged in lieu of the operator.
      3.   If a child under fourteen (14) years of age, or a child fourteen
(14) years of age or older who is unable to fasten a seat belt due to a
temporary or permanent disability, is being transported in a taxicab in a
manner that is not in compliance with subsection A, B, or C of this section,
the parent, legal guardian, or other responsible adult traveling with the child
shall be served with a citation for a violation of this section in lieu of the
taxicab operator. Otherwise, if a passenger being transported in the taxicab is
fourteen (14) years of age or older, the citation shall be served on the
passenger in lieu of the taxicab operator.
   F.   For purposes of this section, "child restraint system" means a
specially designed seating system, including a belt positioning seat or a
booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards. (Ord. 36-10, 6-
21-2010, eff. 7-1-2010)
9-12-321.447 – 9-12-321.454: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 13
SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD
SECTION:
9-13-321.455: Size, Weight, And Load Restrictions; Projecting Loads On
Passenger Vehicles
9-13-321.456 – 9-13-321.457: Reserved
9-13-321.458: Size, Weight, And Load Restrictions; Loading Beyond Front
9-13-321.458A: Size, Weight, And Load Restrictions; Spilling Loads On Streets
9-13-321.459 – 9-13-321.461: Reserved
9-13-321.462: Drawbars And Safety Chains
9-13-321.463 – 9-13-321.599: Reserved
9-13-321.455: SIZE, WEIGHT, AND LOAD RESTRICTIONS; PROJECTING LOADS ON
PASSENGER VEHICLES:
   A.   No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on any highway with any
load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side
of such vehicle nor extending more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the
fenders on the right side thereof. Passengers shall not ride on any part of any
vehicle unless it is expressly designed either for passenger use or designed
for carrying livestock, merchandise, or freight.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner
to cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any street any vehicle or
vehicles of a size or weight exceeding the limitations stated in this
subsection B.
      1.   Except as otherwise provided herein, the gross weight imposed on the
street by the wheels of any one axle of a vehicle or of a combination of
vehicles operated on the streets of the city shall not exceed twenty thousand
(20,000) pounds on an axle equipped with pneumatic tires and shall not exceed
fourteen thousand (14,000) pounds on an axle equipped with solid rubber tires.
The gross weight on any tandem axle of a vehicle or any combination of vehicles
shall not exceed thirty four thousand (34,000) pounds on a tandem axle equipped
with pneumatic tires.
      2.   In the case of a vehicle or combination of vehicles transporting
exclusively milk from the point of production in the state of Wisconsin to the
primary market and the return of dairy supplies and dairy products from such
primary market in the city of Dubuque, Iowa, to the farm in the state of
Wisconsin, the gross weight imposed on the street by the wheels of any one axle
may not exceed twenty one thousand (21,000) pounds or, for two (2) axles eight
(8) or less feet apart, thirty seven thousand (37,000) pounds, or for groups of
consecutive axles more than nine feet (9') apart, a weight of two thousand
(2,000) pounds more than is shown in subsection B3 of this section, but not to
exceed eighty thousand (80,000) pounds.
      3.   The gross weight imposed on the street by any group of axles may not
exceed the maximum gross weights in the following table for each of the
respective distances between axles and the respective numbers of axles of a
group:
Distance In Feet Between Foremost And Rearmost Axles Of Maximum Gross Weight In
Group                                                   Pounds Of A Group Of
                                                        4 Axles1 5 Axles2
Distance In Feet Between Foremost And Rearmost Axles Of Maximum Gross Weight In
Group                                                   Pounds Of A Group Of
                                                        4 Axles1 5 Axles2
12                                                      55,500    
13                                                      60,000    
14                                                      60,500    
15                                                      61,500    
16                                                      62,000   64,200
17                                                      63,000   71,700
18                                                      63,500   71,200
19                                                      64,500   73,000
20                                                      65,000   73,000
21                                                      66,000   73,000
22                                                      66,500   73,000
23                                                      67,500   73,000
24                                                      68,500   73,000
25                                                      69,000   73,000
26                                                      69,500   73,000
27                                                      70,500   73,000
28                                                      71,300   73,000
29                                                      72,000   73,000
30                                                      72,700   73,000
31                                                      73,000   73,000
32                                                      73,0003  73,000
 
   Notes:
      1.   4 consecutive axles of a 4 axle vehicle or of any vehicle having a
total of 5 or more axles.
      2.   5 consecutive axles of a 5 axle vehicle or of any vehicle having a
total of 6 or more axles.
      3.   Maximum at 32 or more feet between axles.
      4.   Notwithstanding subsection B3 of this section, two (2) consecutive
sets of tandem axles may impose on the street a gross load of thirty four
thousand (34,000) pounds each if the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is thirty six feet (36') or
more. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-13-321.456 – 9-13-321.457: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-13-321.458: SIZE, WEIGHT, AND LOAD RESTRICTIONS; LOADING BEYOND FRONT:
The load upon any vehicle operated alone, or the load upon the front vehicle of
a combination of vehicles, shall not extend more than three feet (3') beyond
the front wheels of such vehicle or the front bumper of such vehicle if it is
equipped with such bumper. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-13-321.458A: SIZE, WEIGHT, AND LOAD RESTRICTIONS; SPILLING LOADS ON STREETS:
A vehicle shall not be driven or moved on any highway by any person unless such
vehicle is so constructed or loaded or the load securely covered as to prevent
any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping, or its
load covering from dropping from the vehicle, except that sand may be dropped
for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may be
sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such roadway. The provisions
of this section shall not apply to vehicles loaded with products listed in
section 321.466 of the code of Iowa. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-13-321.459 – 9-13-321.461: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-13-321.462: DRAWBARS AND SAFETY CHAINS:
   A.   When one vehicle is towing or pulling another vehicle, the drawbar or
other connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed
thereby and shall be fastened to the frame of the towing vehicle in such manner
as to prevent side sway, and in addition to such principal connection, there
shall be a safety chain which shall be so fastened as to be capable of holding
the towed vehicle should the principal connection for any reason fail.
   B.   The connection between a truck tractor and a semitrailer with a gross
weight of three thousand (3,000) pounds or more shall be of a type approved by
the commissioner, and the commissioner is hereby given authority to approve or
disapprove such types of connection submitted to the commissioner. (Ord. 44-08,
6-16-2008)
9-13-321.463 – 9-13-321.599: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 14
PARKING
SECTION:
Division 1. Generally
9-14-321.600: Prohibited In Specified Places
9-14-321.601: Loading Zones
9-14-321.602: Parking Prohibited On Designated Streets Or Portions Thereof
9-14-321.603: Parking Restrictions In School Areas
9-14-321.604: Parallel Parking Required; Exceptions For Angle Parking
9-14-321.605: Bus Stops Or Passenger Zones
9-14-321.606: Reserved
9-14-321.607: Parking In Front Of Others' Residences
9-14-321.608: Parking Restrictions For Semitrailers On Designated Streets Or
Portions Thereof
9-14-321.609: Parking Restriction For Trucks And Trailers On Designated Streets
Or Portions Thereof
9-14-321.610: Loading And Unloading In Business Districts To Be Done In Alley
Where Possible
9-14-321.611: Parking In Fire Lanes
9-14-321.612: Parking In Parking Lots
9-14-321.613: Backing For Purposes Of Parking In Business Districts
9-14-321.614: Parking Vehicles For Purposes Of Sale Or Storage Prohibited;
Special Permits Authorized
9-14-321.615: Parking Of Advertising Vehicles
9-14-321.616: Reserved Service Vehicle Parking
9-14-321.617: Reserved Parking For City Employees
9-14-321.618: Parking In Alleys
9-14-321.619: Reserved Law Enforcement Vehicle Parking
9-14-321.620: Parking On Private Property Without Consent Of Owner
9-14-321.621: Parking Violations; Fines
9-14-321.622: Parking Violations; Posting Bond
9-14-321.623: Parking Violations; Effect Of Specific Sections
9-14-321.624: Parking Violations; Removal Of Certain Vehicles Authorized;
Prerequisites To Release
9-14-321.625: Parking Violations; Evidentiary Effect Of Registration Plates
9-14-321.626: Reserved Fire Department Parking
9-14-321.627: Alternate Side Street Parking
Division 2. Municipal Parking Ramps
9-14-321.631: Fee Collection And Traffic Regulation Devices
9-14-321.632: Manner Of Parking In Spaces
9-14-321.633: Backing Into Spaces
9-14-321.634: Trucks Restricted
9-14-321.635: Height Of, Projections On Vehicles Restricted
9-14-321.636: Parking Time Restricted; Reserved Spaces
9-14-321.637: Reserved Parking Space Restrictions
9-14-321.638: Repairs, Maintenance Of Vehicles
9-14-321.639: Hours Of Operation
9-14-321.640: Fees And Charges
9-14-321.641: Parking Without Paying Required Fee Prohibited; Exception
Division 3. Municipal Parking Lots
9-14-321.642: Designated; Lots
9-14-321.643: Meters; Installation Authorized And Directed
9-14-321.644: Meters; Manner Of Construction, Installation, And Marking
9-14-321.645: Meters; Time And Fee Schedule For Specific Lots
9-14-321.646: Meters; Deposit Of Coins Required At Certain Times
9-14-321.647: Unlawful To Use Slugs
9-14-321.648: Meters; Defacing, Tampering
9-14-321.649: Establishment Of Spaces; Parking Within Spaces Required
9-14-321.650: Overtime Parking Prohibited
9-14-321.651: Establishing Special Use Fees For Municipal Parking Lots
9-14-321.652 - 9-14-321.660: Reserved
Division 4. Parking Meters
9-14-321.661: Definitions
9-14-321.662: Installation Authorized And Directed; Time Restrictions
9-14-321.663: Manner Of Construction, Installation, And Marking
9-14-321.664: Spaces
9-14-321.665: When Operation Is Required
9-14-321.666: Municipal Parking Meter District Established
9-14-321.667: Fee Schedule
9-14-321.668: Maximum Parking Times
9-14-321.669: Exemption Of Persons Holding Resident Parking Permits From
Specific Sections
9-14-321.670: Unlawful To Use Slugs
9-14-321.671: Defacing, Tampering With Prohibited
9-14-321.672: Prepaid Parking Meter Hoods/Placards
9-14-321.673 - 9-14-321.680: Reserved
Division 5. Restrictions During Snow Removal
9-14-321.681: Parking So As To Interfere With Plowing Or Removal Prohibited
9-14-321.682: Snow Route, Restricted Parking
9-14-321.683: Declaration Of Emergency
9-14-321.684: Parking Lots
9-14-321.685: Removal Of Obstructing Vehicles
9-14-321.686 - 9-14-321.699: Reserved
Division 6. Parking Spaces For The Disabled
9-14-321.700: Purpose
9-14-321.701: Findings Of Fact
9-14-321.702: Special Parking Places Designated
9-14-321.703: Designation Of Parking Places Generally; Specifications For
Angular Parking For Disabled Persons
9-14-321.704: Disability Signs Required
9-14-321.705: Prohibited Use Of Parking Places Or Identification Devices
9-14-321.706: Authority To Impound Vehicles Parking In Violation Of Division
9-14-321.707: Business District
9-14-321.708: Temporary Disabled Person Parking Meter Hoods
9-14-321.709: Reserved Time Designated Disabled Person Parking Stalls
9-14-321.710: Special Prepaid Parking Permits For Specific Wheelchair Dependent
Disabled Persons
9-14-321.711 - 9-14-321.719: Reserved
Division 7. Residential Parking Permit Program
9-14-321.720: Intent And Purpose
9-14-321.721: Definitions
9-14-321.722: Residential Parking Permit Program Established
9-14-321.723: Posting Of Residential Parking Permit Signs
9-14-321.724: Notice To Residents Of Designation Of Residential Parking Permit
District
9-14-321.725: Issuance Of Residential Parking Permit
9-14-321.726: Renewal Of Residential Parking Permit
9-14-321.727: Transfer Of Residential Parking Permit
9-14-321.728: Responsibility Of Permit Holder
9-14-321.729: Exceptions
9-14-321.730: Waiver Of Residential Parking Permit Regulations
9-14-321.731: Withdrawal Of Designation Of Residential Parking Permit District
9-14-321.732: Prohibited Acts
9-14-321.733: Residential Parking Permit District A
9-14-321.734: Residential Parking Permit District B
9-14-321.735: Residential Parking Permit District C
9-14-321.736: Residential Parking Permit District D
9-14-321.737: Residential Parking Permit District E
9-14-321.738: Residential Parking Permit District F
9-14-321.739: Residential Parking Permit District G
9-14-321.740: Residential Parking Permit District H
9-14-321.741: Home Healthcare Providers
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
9-14-321.600: PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   A.   On a sidewalk.
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway.
   C.   Within an intersection.
   D.   Within five feet (5') on either side of the point on the curb nearest
to a fire hydrant.
   E.   Within ten feet (10') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of the roadway; with the
exception of parking spaces within the designated parking meter district and
when such spaces are clearly marked on the parking surface.
   F.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing,
except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red light.
   G.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted.
   H.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
   I.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of street.
   J.   Opposite the entrance to a garage or driveway in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than twenty feet (20') of the width
of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   K.   Upon any street or in any alley in any part of the city in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10')
of the width of the roadway of such street or alley for the free movement of
vehicular traffic, except when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations,
traffic signs, or signals of a police officer.
   L.   At any place where official signs or curb markings prohibit stopping,
standing, or parking.
   M.   Within ten feet (10') of the crosswalk, whether marked or not, at all
intersections within the city; with the exception of parking spaces within the
designated parking meter district and when such spaces are clearly marked on
the parking surface.
   N.   In an alley under any fire escape at any time.
   O.   The traveled portion of the roadway. (Ord. 17-12, 2-20-2012)
9-14-321.601: LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Signs: Loading zones shall be established and marked by signs.
   B.   Loading Zones Specified: A space not to exceed fifty feet (50') is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theater, auditorium,
hotel having more than twenty five (25) sleeping rooms, or other buildings
where large assemblages of people are being held, within which space, when
clearly marked as such, no motor vehicle shall be left standing, parked, or
stopped except in taking on or discharging passengers or freight.
   C.   Passenger Loading: A motor vehicle standing, parked, or stopped for
taking on or discharging passengers shall not remain in the loading zone in
excess of fifteen (15) minutes unless otherwise instructed by a law enforcement
officer.
   D.   Commercial Loading: A motor vehicle standing, parked, or stopped for
taking on or discharging freight shall not remain in the loading zone in excess
of fifteen (15) minutes unless otherwise instructed by a law enforcement
officer.
      1.   On two-way streets in commercial districts, commercial vehicles may
stop, stand, or park in a traveled lane while engaging in the loading or
unloading of property, provided ten feet (10') of width of the roadway is open
for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
      2.   On one-way streets in commercial districts, commercial vehicles may
stop, stand, or park in a traveled lane while engaging in the loading or
unloading of property, provided ten feet (10') of width of the roadway is open
for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   E.   Blocking Egress: Motor vehicles shall not block an egress from a
building or facility.
   F.   Compliance With International Fire Code: In the instance of a conflict
with this section and the international fire code, the provisions of the
international fire code shall govern. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.602: PARKING PROHIBITED ON DESIGNATED STREETS OR PORTIONS THEREOF:
   A.   Where Posted; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person to park a
motor vehicle on those streets or portions thereof designated from time to time
as areas where parking is prohibited, whether at all times, between certain
hours, for longer than specified times between certain hours, or for longer
than specified times, in violation of such regulations when signs have been
posted in such areas giving notice of such regulations, except for those
vehicles displaying a valid parking sticker permit as defined in section
9-14-321.669 of this chapter parked in a designated two (2) hour parking time
zone.
   B.   Vehicles Not Moved Deemed Stationary: For the purpose of such
regulations, any vehicle not moved out of the block during specified and
designated parking periods shall be deemed to have remained stationary. Those
vehicles displaying a valid parking sticker shall be exempt from this
provision. (Ord. 19-11, 3-7-2011)
   C.   Time Zones Designated: When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle for a period of time longer than hereinafter
indicated between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. on any day except Sundays and public holidays upon the streets or parts of
streets as follows:
   Two hour time zones:
      Bluff Street, west side, from Emmett Street to West 3rd Street.
      Central Avenue, east side, from East 19th Street to a point two hundred
twenty five feet (225') south of East 24th Street.
      Central Avenue, west side, from East 18th Street to East 22nd Street.
      Clarke Drive, south side, from St. Ambrose Street to the west property
line of 2044 Clarke Drive.
      Delhi Street, north side, from North Grandview Avenue to a point two
hundred fifty feet (250') east of Stewart Street.
      Jackson Street, west side, from one hundred forty feet (140') north of
East 10th Street to East 11th Street; east side, from Milwaukee Street to Ruby
Street; both sides, from East 9th Street to East 10th Street and from East 11th
Street to East 12th Street.
      Locust Street, west side, from Loras Boulevard to West 15th Street.
      Roosevelt Street Extension, north side, from Kerper Boulevard to Kilgore
Street, and south side, from Kerper Boulevard to a point three hundred seventy
five feet (375') east of Kerper Boulevard.
      University Avenue, both sides, from Nevada Street to a point one hundred
feet (100') west of Booth Street.
      University Avenue, north side, from Algona Street to Loras Boulevard.
      University Avenue, south side, from Alpine Street to Nevada Street.
      White Street, both sides, from East 9th Street to East 11th Street.
      White Street, both sides, from East 15th Street to East 16th Street.
      White Street, east side, from East 14th Street to East 15th Street.
      4th Street, West, from a point fifty feet (50') east of the westerly
terminus to Bluff Street.
      5th Street, West, north side, from Prospect Street to a point one hundred
ninety six feet (196') west of Prospect Street.
      9th Street, East, north side, from White Street to Jackson Street.
      9th Street, East, south side, from Jackson Street to Washington Street.
      10th Street, East, both sides, from Jackson Street to White Street.
      12th Street, East, both sides, from White Street to the alley west of
Jackson Street; south side, from Jackson Street to the alley east of White
Street.
      13th Street, East, north side, from Elm Street to the alley east of
Washington Street.
      16th Street, East, both sides, from Pine Street to Maple Street; south
side, from Cedar Street to Sycamore Street.
      18th Street, East, both sides, from Central Avenue to White Street. (Ord.
19-11, 3-7-2011; amd. Ord. 51-11, 11-21-2011)
   D.   No Parking At Any Time Zones Designated: When signs are erected giving
notice thereof, no person shall, at any time, park a vehicle upon any of the
following described streets or parts of streets:
      Alley, both sides, between Central Avenue and White Street from 7th
Street to 8th Street.
      Alley, both sides, between West 5th Street and University Avenue from
Nevada Street to Alpine Street.
      Adams Street, both sides, from Ice Harbor Drive to 5th Street.
      Admiral Sheehy Drive, both sides, from U.S. Highway 61/151 to its
terminus.
      Air Hill Street, west side, from University Avenue to 8th Avenue.
      Airport Road, from U.S. Highway 61 to its westerly terminus.
      Algona Street, both sides, from University Avenue to Bennett Street; west
side, from University Avenue to Loras Boulevard.
      Alpine Street, west side, from West 5th Street to University Avenue.
      Althauser Street, west side, from Merz Street to Eagle Street.
      Angella Street, west side, from West Locust to a point abutting 503
Angella Street.
      Arlington Street, south side, from Grove Terrace to Prairie Street.
      Asbury Road, both sides, from John F. Kennedy Road to the westerly city
limits; north side, from St. Ambrose Street to Bunker Hill Drive and from
Clarke Drive to Woodlawn Street; south side, from John F. Kennedy Road to a
point one hundred ten feet (110') east of Crissy Drive.
      Avon Street, south side.
      Bell Street, both sides, from 5th Street to its southerly terminus.
      Bell Street, both sides, from its southerly terminus to a point two
hundred fifty feet (250') north thereof.
      Bennett Street, south side, from Grandview Avenue to McCormick Street.
      Bluff Street, east side, from Dodge Street to a point one hundred thirty
feet (130') north of Dodge Street, and from West 7th Street to a point one
hundred eighty feet (180') south of 8th Street; west side, 5th Street to a
point eighty feet (80') south of 6th Street.
      Booth Street, east side, from University Avenue to West 5th Street.
      Broadway Street, north side, from Diagonal Street to Putnam Street.
      Burch Street, west side, from Hill Street to West 3rd Street.
      Caledonia Street, east side from Hill Street to 8th Avenue.
      Catherine Street, west side, from West 16th Street to West 17th Street.
      Cedar Cross Road, both sides, from U.S. Highway 20 to a point one hundred
feet (100') west of Cedar Cross Court and from North Cascade Road to a point
two hundred seventy five feet (275') north of North Cascade Road.
      Central Avenue, west side, from 11th Street to 10th Street.
      Charter Street, both sides, from South Locust Street to Harrison Street.
      Chavenelle Road, both sides, from Associates Drive to its westerly
terminus.
      Clarke Drive, north side, from Heeb Street to Harold Street, and from St.
Ambrose Street to Asbury Road; south side, from North Grandview Avenue to West
Locust Street.
      College Street, east side, from West 3rd Street to West 5th Street.
      Cornell Street, both sides, from the north line of Loras Boulevard
northerly for a distance of one hundred seventy feet (170').
      Cox Street, west side, from Kirkwood Street to Loras Boulevard; east side
from Loras Boulevard to Chestnut Street.
      Davis Street, both sides, from a point six hundred thirty feet (630')
east of Windsor Avenue to the entrance of Mount Calvary Cemetery.
      Daykin Road, both sides, from John F. Kennedy Road to its westerly
terminus.
      Delhi Street, south side, from a point one hundred sixty five feet (165')
west of West 5th Street to Grandview Avenue.
      Dell Street, east side, from Arlington Street to a point fifty feet (50')
south of Loras Boulevard.
      Dodge Street, both sides, from Locust Street to the westerly limits.
      Dorgan Place, south and west sides, from Ellis Street to 17th Street;
east side, from 17th Street to a point approximately two hundred ten feet
(210') north of 17th Street.
      Edina Street, south side, from Alta Vista Street to the alley immediately
west thereof.
      Edison Street, south side, from Stafford Avenue to Althauser Street.
      Elm Street connector, both sides, from 11th Street to 12th Street.
      Elm Street, east side, from East 19th Street to East 20th Street; east
side, from East 20th Street to East 26th Street; west side, from East 24th
Street to East 26th Street.
      Emmett Street, north side, from Bluff Street to St. Mary's Street.
      Farley Street, west side, from Rhomberg Avenue to High Bluff Street; east
side from Rhomberg Avenue to Garfield Avenue.
      Foothill Road, south side, from John F. Kennedy Road to Pasadena Drive.
      Forest Lane, north side, from Nevada Street to Delhi Street.
      Foye Street, east side, from West Locust Street to Napier Street.
      Fremont Avenue, both sides, from North Cascade Road to a point four
hundred fifty feet (450') east of North Cascade Road and from a point five
hundred seventy five feet (575') north of the Fremont Avenue Bridge to a point
five hundred fifty feet (550') south of the Fremont Avenue Bridge.
      Frontage Road, south side of Highway 20, both sides, from Wacker Drive to
Cedar Cross Road.
      Grace Street, north side, from McCormick Street to North Grandview
Avenue.
      Grandview Avenue, North, north side, from Audubon Street to Rosedale
Street and from a point approximately three hundred feet (300') west of Algona
Street to Clarke Drive; both sides, from Kaufmann Avenue to a point
approximately eight hundred feet (800') south of Kaufmann Avenue.
      Greyhound Park Drive, both sides, from U.S. Highway 61/151 to its
terminus.
      Grove Terrace, east side, from West 11th Street to Arlington Street.
      Hamilton Street extension, both sides, from Kilgore Street to Kerper
Boulevard.
      Harrison Street, west side, from Railroad Avenue to its northerly
terminus.
      Henion Street, west side, from Loras Boulevard to Pickett Street.
      Highland Place, east side, from West 11th Street to Arlington Street.
      Highway 61, both sides, from Kerper Boulevard to the easterly corporate
limits.
      Hill Street, both sides, from Dodge Street to Wooten Street and east
side, from Wooten Street to West 3rd Street.
      Hill Street, South, west side and north side, from South Grandview Avenue
to Curtis Street.
      Hillcrest Road, south side, from Asbury Road to St. John Drive; north
side, from John F. Kennedy Road to a point nine hundred fifty feet (950') west.
      Hillcrest Road, North, both sides, from John F. Kennedy Road to Pasadena
Drive.
      Ice Harbor Drive, both sides, from 1st Street to 5th Street.
      Ida Street, east side, from Grace Street to Delhi Street.
      Irving Street, west side, from University Avenue to Decorah Street.
      Jackson Street, both sides, from East 6th Street to East 9th Street and
from East 10th Street to a point one hundred forty feet (140') south of East
11th Street; east side, from Ruby Street to Aquin Street.
      Jefferson Street, south side, from Walnut Street to Olive Street.
      John F. Kennedy Road, both sides, from University Avenue to a point two
hundred thirty feet (230') north of Spring Valley Road and from a point three
hundred sixty feet (360') south of the Northwest Arterial to its northerly
terminus.
      Jones Street, north side, from Water Street to the Illinois Central
Railroad right of way.
      Kane Street, north side, from Ken Court to Carter Road; south side, from
a point one hundred forty feet (140') east of Katrina Circle to a point one
hundred forty feet (140') west of Katrina Circle.
      Kaufman Avenue, both sides, from Central Avenue to Francis Street; north
side, from Francis Street to Valeria Street.
      Kelly Lane, south side, from Fremont Avenue to Old Mill Road.
      Kerper Boulevard, both sides, from Pine Street to Hawthorne Street.
      Key Way Drive, north side, from John F. Kennedy Road to Woodland Drive.
      Key West Drive, both sides, from Maquoketa Drive to the southerly city
limits.
      Kilgore Street, east side, from Roosevelt Street extension to Hamilton
Street extension.
      Lawndale Street, east side, from Park Street to the northerly terminus of
Lawndale Street.
      Lincoln Avenue, south side, from Elm Street to Kniest Street.
      Locust Street, east side, from Dodge Street to Jones Street.
      Locust Street, west side, from West 2nd Street to West 3rd Street.
      Loras Boulevard, both sides, from Central Avenue to Bluff Street; north
side, from Henion Street to the alley west of Alta Vista Street, and from Adair
Street to North Grandview Avenue; south side, from Prairie Street to Walnut
Street.
      Madison Hill, east side, from West 17th Street to Clarke Drive.
      Main Street, west side, from West 4th Street to a point one hundred
twenty feet (120') south of West 5th Street.
      McCormick Street, west side, from Bennett Street to University Avenue.
      Merz Street, south side, from Windsor Avenue to Althauser Street.
      Montrose Terrace, both sides, from Loras Boulevard to a point one hundred
seventy feet (170') north of Loras Boulevard.
      Mount Loretta Street, north side, from Valley Street to Bryant Street.
      Nevada Street, east side, from University Avenue to Martha Street.
      Nightingale Lane, both sides, from Cedar Cross Road south and
southwesterly to a point approximately one hundred fifty feet (150') east of
its westerly terminus; north side, one hundred fifty feet (150') east from its
westerly terminus.
      North Westbrook Drive, south and west sides, from Seippel Road to Trails
Edge Drive.
      Northwest Arterial, both sides, from U.S. Highway 20 to the northerly
corporate limits.
      O'Hagen Street, east side, from Mineral Street to University Avenue.
      Old Mill Road, south side, from Kelly Lane to Catfish Creek Bridge; both
sides from Catfish Creek Bridge to Rockdale Road.
      Overview Court, south side, from South Grandview Avenue to its westerly
terminus.
      Park Street, both sides, from Mt. Pleasant to Lawndale Street.
      Pebble Creek Drive, east side, from North Westbrook Drive to South
Westbrook Drive.
      Pennsylvania Avenue, both sides, from John F. Kennedy Road to the
westerly city limits; north side, from University Avenue to John F. Kennedy
Road.
      Peru Road, both sides, from its southerly terminus at 32nd Street to the
northerly city limits.
      Pickett Street, south side, from Cornell Street to Henion Street.
      Pinard Street, west side, from East 29th Street to the northerly terminus
of Pinard Street.
      Prairie Street, east side, from Loras Boulevard to West 11th Street.
      Race Street, west side, from West 11th Street to Rose Street.
      Radford Road, both sides, from Chavenelle Road to the northerly city
limits.
      Raven Oaks Drive, both sides, from John F. Kennedy Road to its easterly
terminus.
      Rhomberg Avenue, southeasterly side, from Elm Street to Kniest Street and
the northwesterly side from Elm Street to a point two hundred eighty feet
(280') northeast of Elm Street.
      Rockdale Road, both sides, from South Grandview Avenue to a point one
hundred seventy five feet (175') south of Kehl Court.
      Rosedale Avenue, south side, from St. Ambrose Street to the alley
easterly thereof; north side from St. Ambrose to a point two hundred eighty
feet (280') east thereof.
      Saint Mary's Street, east side, from Emmett Street to West 3rd Street.
      Saunders Street, northwest side, one hundred feet (100') southwest from
Lemon Street.
      Shelby Street, east side, from Clarke Drive to its northerly terminus.
      South Westbrook Drive, north and west sides, from Seippel Road to Trails
Edge Drive.
      Southern Avenue, both sides, from Iowa 946 to Valley Street; south side,
from Valley Street to a point one hundred thirty feet (130') east of Samuel
Street; north side, from Valley Street to a point one hundred fifteen feet
(115') west of Valley Street.
      Southpark Court, both sides, from Twin Valley Drive to its terminus.
      Spring Valley Road, north side, from Olde Country Lane to Fox Hollow
Road.
      Summit Street, west side, from West 3rd Street to West 5th Street.
      Sumner Street, east side, from Lincoln Avenue to Rhomberg Avenue.
      Sycamore Street, both sides, from 14th Street to 16th Street.
      Thiesen Street, south side, from Jenni Street to Stetmore Street.
      Thomas Place, both sides, from Stafford Street to Ascension Street.
      Trails Edge Drive, south side, from Pebble Creek Drive to South Westbrook
Drive.
      U.S. 61/151, northbound off ramp connection, both sides, from 9th Street
to 11th Street.
      U.S. 61/151, northbound on ramp connection, both sides, from 9th Street
to 11th Street.
      U.S. 61/151, southbound on ramp connection, both sides, from 11th Street
to 9th Street.
      Ungs Street, north side, from Clarke Drive to Hoyt Street.
      University Avenue, both sides, from Pennsylvania Avenue to Loras
Boulevard; south side, from Gilliam Street to Pennsylvania Avenue and from
Loras Boulevard to a point one hundred two feet (102') east to Auburn Street.
      Valley Street extension, both sides, from Southern Avenue to Railroad
Avenue.
      Vernon Street, north side, from Alta Vista Street to the alley
immediately west thereof.
      Wacker Drive, both sides, from John F. Kennedy Road to Center Grove
Drive.
      Walnut Street, east side, from University Avenue to Loras Boulevard.
      Wartburg Place, both sides, from Fremont Avenue to the entrance to
Wartburg Seminary Auditorium, and from 385 Wartburg Place to the entrance to
Sunset Ridge; east side, from the entrance to Wartburg Seminary Auditorium to
385 Wartburg Place.
      Washington Street, west side, from East 20th Street to East 25th Street.
      White Street, both sides, from East 4th Street to East 5th Street; west
side, from East 7th Street to East 8th Street; east side, from East 25th Street
to East 26th Street.
      Wilbur Lane, south side, from Alice Street to Grove Terrace.
      Wilson Avenue, west side, from West 8th Street to West 11th Street.
      Woodland Drive, east side, from Key Way Drive to a point one hundred
fifty feet (150') south of Key Way Drive and from Foothill Road to a point two
hundred feet (200') north of Foothill Road.
      Wooten Street, south side, from Hill Street to McClain Street; north
side, from McClain Street to a point one hundred sixty five feet (165') east
thereof.
      1st Street, West, both sides, from Locust Street to Bluff Street.
      1st to 2nd Street connector, east of Main Street, west side, between 1st
Street and 2nd Street.
      2nd Street, West, both sides, from Bluff Street to the alley immediately
east thereof.
      3rd Street, both sides, from a point one hundred feet (100') west of
Bluff Street to Bluff Street; and from Main Street to Bell Street; south side,
from Burch Street to a point one hundred feet (100') west of Bluff Street.
      4th Street, East, both sides, from White Street to Central Avenue.
      5th Street, both sides, from White Street to Adams Street; north side,
from Bell Street to and including the cul-de-sac to the east.
      5th Street, both sides, from White Street to Bell Street.
      5th Street, south side, from Bluff Street to Hill Street; north side,
from a point one hundred ninety two feet (192') west of Bluff Street to
Prospect Street and from Iowa Street to Main Street; provided, however, it
shall not be unlawful to stop, but only in the drop off areas provided, for the
sole purpose of and for the time necessary to allow passengers to enter or exit
a vehicle and during which time the vehicle shall not be unattended.
      6th Street, south side, from Locust Street to the alley west of Main
Street; provided, however, it shall not be unlawful to stop, but only in the
drop off areas provided, for the sole purpose of and for the time necessary to
allow passengers to enter or exit a vehicle and during which time the vehicle
shall not be unattended.
      7th Street, East, both sides, from Washington Street to a point two
hundred fifty feet (250') east of Washington Street.
      7th Street, East, north side, from White Street to Jackson Street.
      7th Street, north side, from Locust Street to the alley west of Locust
Street.
      7th Street, south side, from Bluff Street to Locust Street.
      8th Street, West, both sides, from a point one hundred forty six feet
(146') west of the west property line of University Avenue to a point two
hundred six feet (206') west of the west property line of University Avenue;
provided, however, it shall not be unlawful to stop, but only in the posted
drop off areas provided, for the sole purpose of and for the time necessary to
allow passengers to enter or exit a vehicle and during which time the driver of
the vehicle must be in the vehicle, vehicles shall not be parked in these
areas; north side, from Wilson Avenue to Roberts Avenue; south side, from
Central Avenue to the alley immediately west thereof.
      8th Street, West, from alley west of Iowa Street to Iowa Street from five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. until eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. Monday through Saturday and
twenty four (24) hours on Sunday (nonmetered times).
      9th Street, West, both sides, from University Avenue to Bluff Street;
north side, from Bluff Street to Locust and Iowa Street to fire headquarters'
driveway; south side, from Main Street to the alley west of Iowa Street and
from the alley east of Iowa Street to Central Avenue.
      10th Street, West, both sides, from Locust Street to Bluff Street; south
side, from Central Avenue to Iowa Street.
      11th Street, East, both sides, from Elm Street to Kerper Boulevard.
      11th Street, West, south side, from Prairie Street to Race Street.
      12th Street, West, north and east sides, from Bluff Street to Grove
Terrace; south side, from Bluff Street to a point approximately one hundred
sixty feet (160') west of Bluff Street.
      14th Street, East, both sides, from White Street to Central Avenue; north
side, from White Street to alley west of Jackson Street.
      15th Street, East, both sides, from Sycamore Street to a point nine
hundred fifty feet (950') east of Sycamore Street; south side, from Iowa to
alley east of Main Street.
      16th Street, East, both sides, from Sycamore Street to Kerper Boulevard
and from Cedar Street to Maple Street; north side, from Elm Street to Pine
Street and from Maple Street to Sycamore Street.
      16th Street, West, south side, from Montrose to Catherine Street.
      17th Street, West, north side, from West Locust Street to Clark Street.
      19th Street, East, south side, from Elm Street to Pine Street.
      20th Street, East, both sides, from Central Avenue to Elm Street.
      21st Street, East, both sides, from Central Avenue to White Street; south
side, from Jackson Street to Elm Street.
      22nd Street, East, south side, from Windsor Avenue to Stafford Street;
and Central Avenue to White Street; north side, from Jackson Street to Central
Avenue.
      23rd Street, West, north side, from Central Avenue to a point one hundred
ninety feet (190') west of Central Avenue, and south side, from Central Avenue
to Valeria Street.
      24th Street, East, south side, from Central Avenue to Washington Street.
      24th Street, West, north side, from Central Avenue to Broadway Street.
      30th Street, East, north side, from Central Avenue to Jackson Street.
      32nd Street, East, south side, from Central Avenue to White Street; both
sides, from Jackson Street to a point seven hundred feet (700') east of Jackson
Street.
      32nd Street, West, south side, from Central Avenue to a point one hundred
feet (100') west of Lemon Street; north side, from Central Avenue to Fink
Street. (Ord. 19-11, 3-7-2011; amd. Ord. 15-12, 2-20-2012; Ord. 39-20, 10-5-
2020)
   E.   Fifteen Minute Parking: When signs are erected giving notice thereof,
no person shall park a vehicle for a period of time longer than fifteen (15)
minutes upon the streets or parts of streets as follows:
      Rhomberg Avenue, east side, from Kniest Street to a point one hundred
sixty eight feet (168') south of Marshall Street.
      White Street, east side, from East 7th Street to a point forty feet (40')
north of East 7th Street.
      5th Street, West, north side, from Bluff Street to a point eighty five
feet (85') east of Bluff Street.
   F.   No Parking Six O'Clock A.M. To Six O'Clock P.M. Monday Through
Saturday, Except Holidays: When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to six
o'clock (6:00) P.M., Monday through Saturday, except holidays, upon the
following streets or parts of streets:
      Iowa Street, west side, from 6th Street to 7th Street.
   G.   Two Hour Parking Nine O'Clock A.M. To Six O'Clock P.M., Except
Saturdays, Sundays, And Public Holidays: When signs are erected giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle between the hours of nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on any day except Saturdays, Sundays and
public holidays upon the following streets or parts of streets as follows:
      White Street, east side, from East 13th Street to East 14th Street.
      14th Street, East, south side, from Jackson Street to White Street; north
side, from Jackson Street to the alley east of White Street.
   H.   No Parking Six O'Clock A.M. To Six O'Clock P.M. Monday Through Friday:
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M., Monday
through Friday upon the following streets:
      15th Street, West, south side, from Main Street to the alley west of Iowa
Street.
   I.   No Parking Five O'Clock A.M. To Five O'Clock P.M. Monday Through
Saturday, Except Public Holidays: When signs are erected giving notice thereof,
no person shall park a vehicle between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) P.M., Monday through Saturday, except public holidays,
upon the following streets or parts of streets as follows:
      17th Street, south side, from a point thirty feet (30') west of Central
Avenue to the alley east of Iowa Street. (Ord. 19-11, 3-7-2011)
9-14-321.603: PARKING RESTRICTIONS IN SCHOOL AREAS:
   A.   Where spaces have been set aside adjacent to school property by signs
or markings for "bus loading only", it shall be unlawful for the operator of
any vehicle other than a bus engaged in the loading or unloading of students to
stand or park in any such "bus loading only" spaces.
   B.   Where spaces have been set aside adjacent to school property by signs
or markings for "no parking school hours", it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to stop, stand, or park within the space area during
the hours when the adjacent school is in session. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.604: PARALLEL PARKING REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS FOR ANGLE PARKING:
   A.   Except where angle parking is permitted and on one-way streets, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an adjacent curb shall
be stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel with
and within eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb.
   B.   On one-way streets vehicles may also be parked with the left hand
wheels parallel with and within eighteen inches (18") of the left hand curb.
   C.   Moving vans or trucks or other vehicles handling heavy freight,
merchandise, or materials shall be permitted to back into the curb and park at
an angle, with the traffic, not more than forty five degrees (45°), to take on
or discharge loads, but permission for such angle parking in areas on through
streets, and in the business district where angle parking is not otherwise
permitted, shall be first obtained from the city manager. In all such cases,
the vehicle shall not remain so parked longer than the actual loading or
unloading requires.
   D.   The city manager is hereby authorized to issue to any owner of a
vehicle used to transport merchandise, freight, or materials, a special permit,
renewable annually, and to state therein the terms and conditions thereof
allowing the operator of such vehicle the privilege of loading or unloading
while such vehicle is backed against the curb at an angle of forty five degrees
(45°) with the traffic, if, in the opinion of the city manager, such privilege
is reasonably necessary in the conduct of the owner's business and will not
seriously interfere with traffic. Such permit shall either be in the possession
of the operator or on the vehicle at the time such vehicle is backed against
the curb or parked at an angle to take on or discharge a load and it shall be
unlawful for the owner or operator to violate any of the special terms or
conditions of such special permit.
   E.   Vehicles having a greater length than twenty feet (20') overall shall
not be permitted to park at an angle upon any street.
   F.   Vehicles shall be parked within spaces indicated and with a front wheel
of the vehicle against the curb, upon the following streets designated from
time to time as streets where front in angle parking is permitted:
      1st Street, from the 1st to 2nd Streets connector to Main Street.
      2nd Street, from the 1st to 2nd Streets connector to Locust Street.
      4th Street, north side, from Iowa Street to Main Street. (Ord. 44-08, 6-
16-2008)
9-14-321.605: BUS STOPS OR PASSENGER ZONES:
Where spaces have been set apart by signs or markings for bus stops or
passenger zones, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle, other
than a bus, to stand or park in any officially designated bus stop except that
the operator of any passenger vehicle may temporarily stop in any such bus
space or stop for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the loading or
unloading of passengers.
Between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M., Monday
through Saturday, all day Sunday, and on those "holidays" defined in section
9-1-321.1 of this title, it shall be lawful for the operator of any motor
vehicle to stand or park in the following downtown bus stops or passenger
zones:
   Main Street, west side, 9th Street to 10th Street.
   3rd Street, north side, Main Street west to the alley.
   9th Street, south side, Main Street west to the alley. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-14-321.606: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.607: PARKING IN FRONT OF OTHERS' RESIDENCES:
No truck, bus, van, or vehicle used for the carrying of freight or merchandise
shall be parked or permitted to stand in front of the residence property of
others so as to interfere with free accessibility thereto for a longer period
than is reasonably necessary. The intent of this section is to prohibit the
parking or placing of such vehicles in front of residence property to the
inconvenience of abutting residences unless the parking or placing of such
vehicle is reasonably necessary when taken in connection with the purpose for
which such vehicles are used or needed. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.608: PARKING RESTRICTIONS FOR SEMITRAILERS ON DESIGNATED STREETS OR
PORTIONS THEREOF:
Where spaces have been designated by signs or markings for "No Parking
Semitrailers", it shall be unlawful for the operator of any such vehicle to
stop, stand, or park in the following areas:
   Cross Hill Drive, both sides, from Flint Hill Drive to Rockdale Road.
   Flint Hill Drive, both sides, from Twin Valley Drive to its southerly
terminus.
   Harrison Street, east side, from Railroad Avenue to its northerly terminus.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.609: PARKING RESTRICTION FOR TRUCKS AND TRAILERS ON DESIGNATED STREETS
OR PORTIONS THEREOF:
Where spaces have been designated by signs or markings for "No Truck Or Trailer
Parking", it shall be unlawful for the operator of any such vehicle to stop,
stand or park in the following areas:
   Hawthorne Street, north side, from the railroad tracks to a point forty feet
(40') east of Kerper Boulevard. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.610: LOADING AND UNLOADING IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS TO BE DONE IN ALLEY
WHERE POSSIBLE:
Loading and unloading of merchandise, freight, or materials shall not be done
from a street in the business district where the same can be done from an
alley. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.611: PARKING IN FIRE LANES:
   A.   No person shall park any motor vehicle including automobiles,
automobile trucks, motor buses, motorcycles, motorized bicycles, or other self-
propelled vehicles including any trailers, semitrailers, or other devices used
in connection therewith in any required access roadway for the movement of fire
department apparatus at any private premises within the city.
   B.   No person or agent having control of private premises within the city
shall knowingly permit another person to park any motor vehicle including
automobiles, automobile trucks, motor buses, motorcycles, motorized bicycles,
or other self-propelled vehicles including any trailers, semitrailers, or other
devices used in connection therewith in any required access roadway for the
movement of fire department apparatus.
   C.   All required access roadways shall be posted with "no parking" signs or
other appropriate notice, or both, to be provided by the owner and/or operator
of the private premises, as approved by the chief of the bureau of fire
prevention. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.612: PARKING IN PARKING LOTS:
It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to be parked in any stall or space
in any parking lot within the city without first having secured the permission
of the operator of any parking lot in which stalls or spaces for parking cars
are rented. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.613: BACKING FOR PURPOSES OF PARKING IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS:
In the business district the driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle
between parked vehicles in order to park the driver's vehicle unless the driver
can do so without interfering with traffic. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.614: PARKING VEHICLES FOR PURPOSES OF SALE OR STORAGE PROHIBITED;
SPECIAL PERMITS AUTHORIZED:
   A.   No person shall park or permit to be parked any vehicle upon the
streets or alleys merely for the purpose of displaying it for sale or storing
it while not in use.
   B.   The city manager may issue to any person a special permit to park a
vehicle on such streets or portions thereof designated for such from time to
time only for the purpose of selling produce upon the public market and upon
such conditions as the city manager shall prescribe. Such permit shall be
either in the possession of the operator or on the vehicle at the time the
vehicle is so parked. It shall be unlawful to violate any of the special terms
or conditions thereof. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.615: PARKING OF ADVERTISING VEHICLES:
No person shall park any vehicle upon the streets which, by loudspeakers or
mechanical devices, is used to advertise events or the sale of goods, wares, or
merchandise. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.616: RESERVED SERVICE VEHICLE PARKING:
   A.   Generally: When appropriate signs have been erected, a space not to
exceed eighty feet (80') is hereby set aside adjacent to the municipal
auditorium for the parking of vehicles engaged in loading, unloading, or
actually servicing the facility. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any
vehicle to stop, stand, or park within such space unless and until an
appropriate service vehicle emblem has been obtained from the manager of the
said facility and is prominently displayed from the interior of said vehicle.
   B.   Service Vehicle Emblems: Service vehicle emblems of appropriate design
shall be supplied to the facility by the city manager. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.617: RESERVED PARKING FOR CITY EMPLOYEES:
   A.   When appropriate signs have been posted, spaces to accommodate vehicles
are hereby set aside for the parking of vehicles by city employees.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand, or
park within such space unless such person is a city employee. (Ord. 44-08, 6-
16-2008)
9-14-321.618: PARKING IN ALLEYS:
Unless actually engaged in taking on or discharging persons, goods, or
merchandise, no person shall stop or park a vehicle in the alleys or portions
of alleys designated as alleys from time to time when parking or stopping is
prohibited. All vehicles stopped or parked in any of said alleys for the
purpose of taking on or discharging persons, goods, or merchandise shall have a
qualified operator in attendance at all times being subject to movement upon
request of a police or fire officer. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to vehicles standing or parked in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or a traffic control device. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.619: RESERVED LAW ENFORCEMENT VEHICLE PARKING:
   A.   When appropriate signs have been posted, the following areas are hereby
set aside for the parking of law enforcement vehicles:
That area located on the easterly side of Iowa Street between the law
enforcement center driveway and the south right of way line of 8th Street.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand, or
park within such area unless such vehicle is clearly identified and marked as a
vehicle assigned to law enforcement activities. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.620: PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT CONSENT OF OWNER:
No person shall drive, stop, stand, or park a vehicle onto or upon privately
owned property, or an area developed as a private off street parking facility,
without the consent of the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such privately
owned property or facility. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.621: PARKING VIOLATIONS; FINES:
   A.   The owner or operator of any vehicle who shall receive notice, either
personally or by the attaching of such notice to said vehicle, that said
vehicle is parked in such manner, in such a place or for such a time as to
violate the provisions of this chapter relating to the parking of vehicles,
shall pay to the city treasurer as a penalty for such violation the following
sum:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection A2, A3, A4, A5, or A6 of this
section, any violation of this chapter, an initial fine of fifteen dollars
($15.00) if paid within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the violation.
If payment is not made within such thirty (30) calendar days, said fine shall
be twenty dollars ($20.00).
      2.   Disabled parking violations, a fine of two hundred dollars
($200.00).
      3.   Expired parking meter violations, an initial fine of ten dollars
($10.00) if paid within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the violation.
If payment is not made within such thirty (30) calendar days, said fine shall
be fifteen dollars ($15.00).
      4.   Parking in violation of any designated fire lane, a fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00).
      5.   Parking within five feet (5') on any side of the point on the curb
nearest to a fire hydrant, a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00).
      6.   Parking in violation of snow route restrictions, a fine of thirty
dollars ($30.00) if paid within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the
violation. If payment is not made within such thirty (30) calendar days, said
fine shall be thirty five dollars ($35.00). The first snow route restriction
violation of each winter season for a vehicle shall be voided if the owner of
the vehicle registers their contact information with the police department.
   B.   Payment of the above fine by mail to the city treasurer shall be deemed
paid as of the date of the postmark on the envelope thereof.
   C.   For purposes of this section, a ticket shall become delinquent if not
paid within seven (7) calendar days from the date of issuance.
   D.   For purposes of this section, the city manager may waive a parking
violation fine for emergency responders including, but not limited to,
firefighters, law enforcement officers, emergency medical service personnel,
emergency communications personnel, auxiliary police, and other personnel
having emergency response duties for a violation received during an emergency
response event or service to the city. (Ord. 20-15, 3-12-2015, eff. 7-1-2015)
9-14-321.622: PARKING VIOLATIONS; POSTING BOND:
All persons receiving such notice of violation and deeming themselves not
guilty of such offense, or desiring to appear and defend against the same,
shall within seven (7) calendar days appear at the police department and
promise to appear in the district court of Dubuque County, Iowa, for trial.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.623: PARKING VIOLATIONS; EFFECT OF SPECIFIC SECTIONS:
The provisions of sections
9-14-321.621 and
9-14-321.622 of this chapter shall not in any manner affect the penalty
provisions of any other ordinance, or part of ordinance, relating to the
parking of vehicles upon the streets, avenues, alleys, or public places within
the city, but shall be cumulative of all other ordinances on the subject and
for the purpose of providing a more convenient and economical method of
handling such violations. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.624: PARKING VIOLATIONS; REMOVAL OF CERTAIN VEHICLES AUTHORIZED;
PREREQUISITES TO RELEASE:
   A.   Whenever a vehicle is found stopped or parked in violation of any state
law or city ordinance, or in such manner as to cause a dangerous condition to
exist, or whenever the owner or operator of a vehicle has failed to report or
heed a notice to appear before the proper magistrate, any police officer may
remove such vehicle from a street or alley to a place of safekeeping.
   B.   If such vehicle must be serviced or towed, the fee, together with any
other necessary expense incurred in such removal, shall be assessed against the
vehicle and shall be paid before it is released. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.625: PARKING VIOLATIONS; EVIDENTIARY EFFECT OF REGISTRATION PLATES:
In any proceedings for violation of the parking provisions of this title, the
registration plates displayed on such motor vehicle involved in such violation
shall constitute prima facie evidence that the owner of such motor vehicle was
the person who parked or placed such motor vehicle at the point where such
violation occurred. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.626: RESERVED FIRE DEPARTMENT PARKING:
   A.   When appropriate signs have been posted, that area located on the north
side of 9th Street between Central Avenue and the driveway to fire headquarters
is set aside for the parking of fire department vehicles.
   B.   When appropriate signs have been posted, that area located on the west
side of Central Avenue between 9th Street and the entrance to the parking ramp
at 975 Central Avenue is set aside for the parking of fire department vehicles
at all times.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand, or
park within such area unless such vehicle is clearly identified and marked as a
vehicle assigned to the fire department. (Ord. 21-11, 3-7-3011)
9-14-321.627: ALTERNATE SIDE STREET PARKING:
   A.   This section is enacted as an enforcement procedure for the protection
of public safety and welfare and shall be used to facilitate street sweeping
and the removal of snow and ice accumulations on certain public streets.
   B.   There is hereby established an alternate side street parking district,
unless signs are erected giving notice otherwise, comprised of streets and/or
portions thereof as follows:
Bluff Street, both sides, from 14th Street to Dodge Street.
Central Avenue, both sides, from 22nd Street to 4th Street.
Clarke Drive, north side, from the east property line of 1687 Clarke Drive to
Clarke Crest Drive.
Clarke Drive, south side, from West Locust Street to a point approximately one
hundred feet (100') east of Clarke Crest Drive.
Iowa Street, both sides, from 14th Street to 4th Street.
Jackson Street, both sides, from 8th Street to 11th Street.
Jones Street, both sides, from Main Street to Harrison Street.
Locust Street, both sides, from 14th Street to 1st Street.
Main Street, both sides, from 14th Street to Railroad Avenue.
Railroad Avenue, both sides, from Main Street to Harrison Street.
Washington Street, both sides, from 9th Street to 11th Street.
White Street, both sides, from 21st Street to 5th Street.
1st Street, both sides, from Bluff Street to the 1st to 2nd Street connector,
also known as the alley east of Main Street.
2nd Street, both sides, from Bluff Street to Iowa Street.
3rd Street, both sides, from Bluff Street to Main Street.
4th Street, both sides, from Bluff Street to Central Avenue.
5th Street, both sides, from Bluff Street to White Street.
6th Street, both sides, from Bluff Street to White Street.
7th Street, both sides, from Bluff Street to White Street.
8th Street, both sides, from Bluff Street to Washington Street.
9th Street, both sides, from Bluff Street to Pine Street.
10th Street, both sides, from Bluff Street to Elm Street.
11th Street, both sides, from Bluff Street to Pine Street.
12th Street, both sides, from Bluff Street to White Street.
13th Street, both sides, from Bluff Street to White Street.
16th Street, both sides, from Central Avenue to the alley entrance immediately
east of Central Avenue.
   C.   The city manager is hereby authorized to establish time restrictions
within the alternate side street parking district and to post appropriate signs
therefor.
   D.   Upon petition to the city manager by any person for parking time
restrictions within the alternate side street parking district, the city
manager shall review such requests and make such changes as are deemed
necessary by the city manager.
   E.   When any vehicle parked in violation of this section constitutes a
hindrance and a hazard to the prompt removal of snow and ice accumulations, the
police department may cause the immediate removal of the vehicle. When
conditions permit, the police department shall make a reasonable effort to
contact the last registered owner of the vehicle before summarily removing the
vehicle.
   F.   The towing and storage of vehicles parking in violation of this section
shall be in accordance with sections
9-15-321.770,
9-15-321.771, and
9-15-321.772 of this title. (Ord. 65-14, 11-3-2014)
DIVISION 2. MUNICIPAL PARKING RAMPS
9-14-321.631: FEE COLLECTION AND TRAFFIC REGULATION DEVICES:
The city manager shall cause to be installed in the municipal parking ramps
appropriate devices to provide for the collection of fees and the regulation,
control, and inspection of motor vehicles parked therein. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-14-321.632: MANNER OF PARKING IN SPACES:
Each motor vehicle parked in the municipal parking ramps shall be parked within
such parking spaces as are established and designated by appropriate markings,
and each motor vehicle operated or moved therein and therefrom shall be
operated or moved within the traffic lanes established and designated by
appropriate markings. It shall be prohibited for any person to cause, allow,
permit, or suffer any motor vehicle registered in the name of such person to be
parked in the municipal parking ramps in a position not entirely within such
marked parking spaces or in such a manner as will obstruct free movement of
motor vehicles in such marked traffic lanes. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.633: BACKING INTO SPACES:
No motor vehicles shall be backed into a parking space in a municipal parking
ramp except in those spaces which are laid off at right angles to the
designated traffic lanes. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.634: TRUCKS RESTRICTED:
No operator of a truck vehicle, other than a pickup truck, shall operate or
drive such truck vehicle into or in a municipal parking ramp. (Ord. 44-08, 6-
16-2008)
9-14-321.635: HEIGHT OF, PROJECTIONS ON VEHICLES RESTRICTED:
No operator of any motor vehicle having projections therefrom with a height in
excess of the posted restrictions shall operate or drive such vehicle into or
in the municipal parking ramps. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.636: PARKING TIME RESTRICTED; RESERVED SPACES:
Use of the municipal parking ramps shall be limited to the parking and storage
of motor vehicles for a period not to exceed the maximum of twenty four (24)
hours in a single parking period, except that the city manager may reserve
certain parking spaces therein to tenants upon a month to month basis upon
payment in advance of the monthly rental charge. For a fee of eight dollars
($8.00) per twenty four (24) hour day, paid in advance, and the time period not
to exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours or five (5) days, the city manager may
authorize overnight storage of motor vehicles. Arrangements shall be made in
advance for such overnight storage of motor vehicles in the municipal parking
ramps. (Ord. 20-15, 3-12-2015, eff. 7-1-2015)
9-14-321.637: RESERVED PARKING SPACE RESTRICTIONS:
Reserved parking space tenants may be assigned specific numbered spaces. An
assigned reserved parking space tenant shall not park in a space other than the
space assigned to that tenant unless duly authorized and directed by the
parking system manager, and any tenant who so parks shall be liable for a fine
as provided in section
9-14-321.621 of this chapter. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.638: REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES:
No person shall clean out or wash motor vehicles, change tires, change oil, or
make repairs to any motor vehicle parked in a municipal parking ramp, except
such necessary work to start or move a motor vehicle from the parking ramp may
be permitted for such purpose only. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.639: HOURS OF OPERATION:
The city manager shall designate the hours during which the municipal parking
ramps will be open for transient parking business. The city manager shall
publish notice of such hours by prominently displaying such notice within the
ramps. The city manager shall keep the city council informed of the hours of
opening and closing thereof or any change of such hours. It is intended hereby
that regular service hours shall be established for the operation of the
parking ramps, but in addition, permit such flexibility in the established
hours so that the municipal parking ramps can be operated according to service
demand, special events, and holiday shopping requirements. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-14-321.640: FEES AND CHARGES:
The city manager is authorized to establish fees and charges for parking of
motor vehicles in the municipal parking ramps. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008; amd.
Ord. 42-20, 11-2-2020)
9-14-321.641: PARKING WITHOUT PAYING REQUIRED FEE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
When parking spaces are established and marked and the appropriate devices for
the collection of fees and charges and the regulation of motor vehicles have
been installed and parking rates have been established and posted in the
municipal parking ramps, then it shall be unlawful and a violation of this
division for any person to cause, allow, permit, or suffer any motor vehicle
registered in the name of such person to be parked in the municipal parking
ramps without paying the required fee as established. On particular occasions,
times, or days, the municipal parking ramps may be opened to the general public
without fee payment; at such times it shall be lawful for any person to allow
or permit any vehicle registered in such person's name to be parked in the
municipal parking ramps without payment of fee.
The city manager is authorized to issue courtesy parking tickets when the city
manager deems it to be in the city's best interest to promote usage of the
parking ramps or when introducing new parking ramps programs. (Ord. 44-08, 6-
16-2008)
DIVISION 3. MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS
9-14-321.642: DESIGNATED; LOTS:
The various municipally owned parking lots in the city shall be designated
numerically as follows:
   A.   Lot no. 1: The lot situated between 9th and 10th Streets and Iowa
Street and Central Avenue.
   B.   Lot no. 2: The lot situated at the northwest corner of 9th and Bluff
Streets and running parallel to 9th Street.
   C.   Lot no. 3: The lot situated at the northwest corner of 5th and Bluff
Streets.
   D.   Lot no. 4: The lot situated at the southwest corner of 12th and Bluff
Streets.
   E.   Lot no. 5: The lot situated at the northwest corner of 12th Street and
Central Avenue.
   F.   Lot no. 6: The lot situated on the southwest corner of 11th and Bluff
Streets.
   G.   Lot no. 7: The lot situated on the northwest corner of 3rd and Main
Streets.
   H.   Lot no. 8: The lot located on the south side of the historic federal
building.
   I.   Lot no. 10: The lot situated on 5th Street and the alley east of Locust
Street and running parallel to the alley from 5th to 6th Streets.
   J.   Lot no. 12: The lot situated at the northeast corner of 4th Street and
Central Avenue. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.643: METERS; INSTALLATION AUTHORIZED AND DIRECTED:
The city manager is hereby authorized and directed to install parking meters in
those municipally owned parking lots designated numerically as lots no. 1
through 3, 5, 6, 7 and 10 for the purpose of and in such numbers and at such
places as may be necessary to the regulation, control, and inspection of the
parking of motor vehicles therein. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.644: METERS; MANNER OF CONSTRUCTION, INSTALLATION, AND MARKING:
Parking meters installed in municipally owned parking lots shall be installed
immediately adjacent to the individual parking spaces described in section
9-14-321.646 of this chapter and each parking meter shall be so constructed and
adjusted as to show, when properly operated, a signal that the space adjacent
to which it is installed is or is not legally in use. Each parking meter
installed shall indicate the duration of the period of legal parking and on the
expiration of such period shall indicate illegal or overtime parking. (Ord. 44-
08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.645: METERS; TIME AND FEE SCHEDULE FOR SPECIFIC LOTS:
   A.   Parking meters on municipally owned parking lots, when installed and
properly operated, shall show legal parking upon and after the deposit of
United States coins, and in the nonmetered parking lots, parking spaces shall
be reserved in accordance with the following schedules:
      1.   On parking lots no. 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, and 10, the amount of fee
shall be displayed on each parking meter and shall indicate the period of time
allowed for the particular United States coin deposit after meter has been
placed in operation. The maximum parking time allowed shall be indicated on the
parking meter assigned to the meter space to which it applies.
      2.   For municipal parking lots, the days and hours of reserved parking
for nonmetered spaces shall be designated by the city manager. The city manager
shall publish notice of such hours by prominently displaying such notice within
the lots. The city manager shall keep the city council informed of the hours of
opening and closing thereof or any change of such hours. It is intended hereby
that regular service hours shall be established for the operation of the
parking lots, but in addition, permit such flexibility in the established hours
so that the municipal parking lots can be operated according to service demand,
special events, and holiday shopping requirements.
   B.   Notice of such restrictions, as provided for in this section, shall be
displayed at each lot. The owner or operator of any vehicle who shall receive
notice either personally or by the attaching of such notice to said vehicle if
said vehicle is parked in violation of this section shall, when such notice is
served upon such owner or operator or attached to said vehicle, pay to the city
treasurer as a penalty for such violation the sum of fifteen dollars ($15.00)
and after thirty (30) days a sum of twenty dollars ($20.00).
   C.   The city manager is authorized to establish fees and charges for
parking of motor vehicles in the municipal parking lots. (Ord. 20-15, 3-12-
2015, eff. 7-1-2015; amd. Ord. 20-21, 5-17-2021; Ord. 20-21, 5-17-2021)
9-14-321.646: METERS; DEPOSIT OF COINS REQUIRED AT CERTAIN TIMES:
When parking spaces are established and marked and parking meters installed
adjacent thereto in municipally owned parking lots, it shall be unlawful for
any person to be parked within such space for the time during which the meter
is showing a signal indicating that such space is illegally in use. Such meters
shall be placed in operation by deposit of appropriate coin therein during the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Monday through
Saturday of each week, except holidays. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.647: UNLAWFUL TO USE SLUGS:
It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter
any slug, device, or any metallic substitute for any United States coin. (Ord.
44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.648: METERS; DEFACING, TAMPERING:
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open, or for any person to
deface, injure, tamper with, or wilfully break, destroy, or impair the
usefulness of any parking meter installed pursuant to this division. (Ord. 44-
08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.649: ESTABLISHMENT OF SPACES; PARKING WITHIN SPACES REQUIRED:
The city manager shall establish and designate by suitable markings, parking
spaces, and traffic lanes on municipally owned parking lots and each motor
vehicle parking in such parking lots shall park within such parking spaces. It
shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any municipally owned parking
lot in such a position that the same shall not be entirely within such parking
space or in such a manner that it shall obstruct the free movement of vehicles
over such traffic lanes. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.650: OVERTIME PARKING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this chapter for any
person to cause, allow, permit, or suffer any vehicle registered in the name of
such person to be parked overtime or beyond the period of legal parking time
established for any parking lot as herein described, or to deposit in any
parking meter any coin for the purpose of parking beyond the maximum legal
parking time established for the particular parking lot. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-14-321.651: ESTABLISHING SPECIAL USE FEES FOR MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS:
The city manager is authorized to establish fees and charges for the rental of
city lots or portions of lots. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008; amd. Ord. 42-20, 11-2-
2020)
9-14-321.652 - 9-14-321.660: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 4. PARKING METERS
9-14-321.661: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following terms are used in this division they shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them in this section:
PARKING METER DISTRICT: Those streets in the city upon which parking meters are
located and parking meter spaces are marked off.
PARKING METER SPACES: A certain designated and marked off section of the public
street where a vehicle may be temporarily parked and allowed to remain for such
time as the parking meter attached thereto may indicate. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-14-321.662: INSTALLATION AUTHORIZED AND DIRECTED; TIME RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The city manager is hereby authorized and directed to install parking
meters in the parking meter district established by the city council from time
to time.
   B.   The city manager is hereby authorized and directed to establish and
assign time restrictions for all parking meters and to direct the installation
and assignment of time restrictions for all parking meters within the parking
meter district.
   C.   Upon petition to the city manager by any person for meter time
restriction changes, removal of parking meters from specific metered areas, or
installation of additional parking meters within the parking meter district,
the city manager or the city manager's designee shall review such requests in
terms of existing parking programs and policies and make such changes as are
deemed necessary and authorized by the city manager. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.663: MANNER OF CONSTRUCTION, INSTALLATION, AND MARKING:
Parking meters installed in the parking meter districts shall be installed upon
the curb immediately adjacent to the marked parking meter spaces and each
parking meter shall be so constructed and adjusted as to show, when properly
operated, a signal that the space adjacent to which it is installed is or is
not legally in use. Each parking meter shall indicate by proper legend the
legal parking time established by the city and when operated shall indicate on
and by its dial and pointer the duration of the period of legal parking and on
the expiration of such period shall indicate illegal or overtime parking. (Ord.
44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.664: SPACES:
The city manager shall have lines or markings painted or fixed upon the curb or
upon the street adjacent to each parking meter designating the parking space
for which such meter is to be used, and each vehicle parked adjacent to any
parking meter shall park within such lines or markings. It shall be unlawful to
park any vehicle across any such line or marking or to park such vehicle in
such a position that the same shall not be entirely within the space designated
by such lines or markings. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle outside of
a marked space within the parking meter district. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.665: WHEN OPERATION IS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this division
for any person to cause, allow, permit, or suffer any motor vehicle registered
in such person's name or operated or controlled by such person to be upon any
street within a parking meter space adjacent to a parking meter while such
meter is displaying a signal indicating that the motor vehicle occupying such
parking space has been parked beyond the period prescribed for such parking
spaces.
   B.   Such parking meter shall be operated to show legal parking in such
parking meter zones between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) P.M., Monday through Saturday of each week.
   C.   The provisions of this division shall not apply on "holidays", as
defined in section
9-1-321.1 of this title. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.666: MUNICIPAL PARKING METER DISTRICT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a municipal parking meter district to be comprised
of streets and/or portions thereof as follows:
East-west streets:
1st Street, both sides, between Locust Street and extending to the connector
east of Main Street.
2nd Street, both sides, between the connector east of Main Street and Locust
Street.
3rd Street, both sides, between Locust Street and Bluff Street.
4th Street, both sides, from Central Avenue to Locust Street.
4th Street, north side, between Locust Street and Bluff Street.
4th Street, south side, between Locust Street and Bluff Street, months of
December through March only.
5th Street, both sides, between White Street and Bluff Street.
5th Street, north side, from Bluff Street to a point one hundred ninety six
feet (196') west of Bluff Street.
6th Street, both sides, between White Street and Central Avenue.
6th Street, both sides, from Locust Street to Bluff Street.
7th Street, both sides, between White Street and Iowa Street.
7th Street, north side from the alley west to Bluff Street, between Locust
Street and Bluff Street.
8th Street, both sides, between Locust Street and Hill Street.
8th Street, both sides, between Locust Street and Main Street.
8th Street, both sides, between Main Street and Iowa Street, except where
posted "No Parking".
8th Street, both sides, between White Street and Central Avenue.
8th Street, both sides, between White Street and Washington Street.
9th Street, both sides, between White Street and Central Avenue.
9th Street, both sides, between White Street and Elm Street.
9th Street, north side, from Iowa Street to Locust Street.
9th Street, south side, between Iowa Street and the alley east of Iowa Street.
9th Street, south side, between Locust Street and Bluff Street.
9th Street, south side, between Locust Street and Main Street.
10th Street, both sides, between White Street and Elm Street.
10th Street, north side, between White Street and Locust Street.
10th Street, south side, between Iowa Street and Locust Street.
10th Street, south side, between White Street and Central Avenue.
11th Street, both sides, between White Street and Bluff Street.
11th Street, both sides, between White Street and Elm Street.
11th Street, south side, between White Street and Washington Street.
12th Street, both sides, between Central Avenue and Bluff Street.
12th Street, both sides, between Main Street and Bluff Street.
13th Street, both sides, between White Street and Locust Street.
15th Street, both sides, between White Street and the alley east of Iowa
Street.
15th Street, south side, between Iowa Street and the alley west of Central
Avenue.
16th Street, both sides, between the alley east of Central Avenue and the alley
west of Central Avenue.
17th Street, south side, between the alley east of Central Avenue and the alley
west of Central Avenue.
18th Street, south side, between Central Avenue and the alley east of Central
Avenue.
North-south streets:
Bluff Street, both sides, between 3rd Street and 8th Street.
Bluff Street, both sides, between 10th Street and 12th Street.
Bluff Street, west side, between 8th Street and 9th Street.
Central Avenue, both sides, between 4th Street and 19th Street.
Iowa Street, both sides, between 4th Street and Loras Boulevard.
Iowa Street, west side of median, between 5th Street and 9th Street.
Jackson Street, both sides, between 8th Street and 11th Street.
Locust Street, both sides, between 1st Street and Loras Boulevard.
Main Street, both sides, between 1st Street and 5th Street.
Main Street, both sides, between 8th Street and 10th Street, except where
posted "NO PARKING".
Main Street, both sides, between 9th Street and Loras Boulevard.
Main Street, both sides, from 1st Street to a point two hundred twenty feet
(220') south of 1st Street.
Main Street, both sides, from 5th Street to 8th Street.
Washington Street, both sides, from 8th Street to 11th Street.
White Street, both sides, from 5th Street to 11th Street.
White Street, west side, between 11th Street and 13th Street.
White Street, west side, between 13th Street and 14th Street.
White Street, west side, between East 14th Street and East 15th Street.
1st to 2nd Street connector, east of Main Street, east side, between 1st and
2nd. (Ord. 48-12, 9-4-2012)
9-14-321.667: FEE SCHEDULE:
Subject to the limitations provided in this division, parking meters, when
installed and properly operated, shall show legal parking upon and after
deposit of United States coins in accordance with the following schedule:
   A.   One hour parking meters shall show legal parking for seventy five cents
($0.75) per hour, but not more than a total of sixty (60) minutes at any one
time.
   B.   Two (2) hour parking meters shall show legal parking for seventy five
cents ($0.75) per hour, but not more than a total of one hundred twenty (120)
minutes at any one time.
   C.   Four (4) hour parking meters shall show legal parking for seventy five
cents ($0.75) per hour, but not more than a total of four (4) hours at any one
time.
   D.   Ten (10) hour parking meters shall show legal parking for fifty cents
($0.50) per hour, but not more than a total of ten (10) hours at any one time.
   E.   Twenty (20) minute parking meters shall show legal parking for seventy
five cents ($0.75) per hour, but not more than a total of twenty (20) minutes
at any one time.
   F.   Forty (40) minute parking meters shall show legal parking for seventy
five cents ($0.75) per hour, but not more than a total of forty (40) minutes at
any one time. (Ord. 20-15, 3-12-2015, eff. 7-1-2015)
9-14-321.668: MAXIMUM PARKING TIMES:
Between the hours and on the days stated in section
9-14-321.665 of this chapter, no person shall allow a vehicle to be parked in a
parking meter space for a period of time greater than the maximum time limit
indicated for such meter. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.669: EXEMPTION OF PERSONS HOLDING RESIDENT PARKING PERMITS FROM
SPECIFIC SECTIONS:
   A.   Resident Parking Sticker Defined; Display Required: A "resident parking
sticker" is a permit to park a motor vehicle upon the streets of the city in
the parking meter district. When a valid parking sticker is displayed upon a
vehicle, that vehicle shall be exempt from the provisions of sections
9-14-321.667 and
9-14-321.668 of this chapter in the parking meter district.
   B.   Sticker Issuance: A resident parking sticker shall only be issued to an
individual who is occupying a housing unit as that person's principal abode.
The housing unit must be located within the parking meter district. No more
than one parking sticker shall be issued for each housing unit and shall be
issued subject to the following conditions:
      1.   The place of residency of the applicant shall be verified by the
parking system manager.
      2.   Stickers shall be issued at the rate of one per block in those
blocks having ten (10) or fewer parking spaces at the rate of two (2) per block
in those blocks containing eleven (11) or more parking spaces.
      3.   In the case of multiple applications, the date of sticker
application shall be the determination factor and preference shall be given
that applicant with the longest time on the resident parking sticker waiting
list.
      4.   In the case of municipal lot no. 1, one residential permit per unit,
up to twenty nine (29) permits may be issued to persons whose principal address
is listed as the Cornerstone Place located at 9th and Iowa.
   C.   Information On Sticker, Manner Of Display: The resident parking sticker
shall indicate a control number, the location for which the sticker is valid,
the expiration date, and the license number of the vehicle for which it is
issued. The block in which the resident parking sticker is valid shall be
determined by the parking system manager or his/her duly authorized
representative in accordance with subsection B2 of this section. The resident
parking sticker shall be placed in the upper portion of the rear window on the
driver's side of the vehicle.
   D.   Noneligibility Of Businesses For Permit: The resident parking sticker
shall not be issued to any businesses, corporations, or organizations who
maintain facilities in the meter districts.
   E.   Falsely Obtaining Permit: No person shall knowingly misrepresent or
intentionally falsify any information which is required in order to obtain a
resident parking sticker.
   F.   Permit Limitation To Authorized Location: No person shall park a
vehicle bearing a resident parking sticker in any area other than that
indicated on the sticker, unless such person has fulfilled the requirements of
any and all parking ordinances applicable to that area.
   G.   Permit Fee, Revocation: The city manager is hereby authorized to set a
fee for the issuance of the resident parking sticker. The sticker shall be sold
on a quarterly basis and the cost shall be prorated to the nearest half month.
The city manager shall have the authority to revoke the parking sticker of any
person who fails to continue to meet the original issuance requirements. In the
event of revocation of a resident parking sticker, refund shall be made for any
month remaining wholly unused.
   H.   Violation; Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00), and upon
failure to pay said fine shall be imprisoned for a period not exceeding thirty
(30) days. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.670: UNLAWFUL TO USE SLUGS:
It shall be unlawful to deposit, or cause to be deposited, in any parking meter
any slug, device, or substitute for a United States coin. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-14-321.671: DEFACING, TAMPERING WITH PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open, or for any person to
deface, injure, or tamper with, or wilfully break, destroy, or impair the
usefulness of any parking meter installed pursuant to this division. (Ord. 44-
08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.672: PREPAID PARKING METER HOODS/PLACARDS:
   A.   Parking meter hoods/placards are permits to park vehicles at parking
meters upon the streets in any parking meter district or in a municipal public
parking lot. When a validly issued parking meter hood/placard is displayed upon
a parking meter, the person operating such vehicle shall be exempt from the
provisions of this division requiring the depositing of coins in the parking
meter so covered.
   B.   Parking meter hoods/placards shall be only issued to a person actually
engaged in a construction, maintenance, or a loading/unloading activity at a
site adjacent to or within a reasonable distance of a parking meter.
   C.   Parking meter hoods/placards shall not be issued for a period exceeding
one month.
   D.   No person shall knowingly represent or intentionally falsify any
information which is required in order to obtain a parking meter hood/placard.
   E.   No person shall park a vehicle using a parking meter hood/placard at
such person's place of business. An exception may be authorized by the city
manager or the city manager's designee for placards and the restrictions shall
be so noted on the placards.
   F.   The city manager is hereby authorized to establish a fee for the
issuance of a parking meter hood/placard. Such fee shall bear a reasonable
relationship to the income received by the city from the operation of the
meters in the parking meter district or in the municipal parking lot in which
the meter is located. No parking meter hood/placard shall be issued until the
fee therefor has been prepaid.
   G.   The city manager, in addition to establishing a prepaid parking rental
fee, may collect a deposit to ensure the safe and prompt return of the parking
meter hood/placard.
   H.   The city manager or the city manager's designee is authorized to revoke
the parking meter hood/placard of any person who violates any condition under
which the hood/placard was issued without making any refund or proration of the
prepaid fee.
   I.   A person requesting a placard at such person's place of business shall
submit a request in writing to the city manager or the city manager's designee
stating the necessity for the placard and specific dates and times required. A
placard shall not be issued for more than seventy two (72) hours per month.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.673 - 9-14-321.680: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 5. RESTRICTIONS DURING SNOW REMOVAL
9-14-321.681: PARKING SO AS TO INTERFERE WITH PLOWING OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED:
No "vehicle", as defined in this title, shall be parked upon any street in the
city in such a manner as to interfere with the plowing or removal of snow or
ice from such street. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.682: SNOW ROUTE, RESTRICTED PARKING:
   A.   Application Of Section: The provisions of this section prohibiting the
standing or parking of vehicles on certain designated streets or parts of
streets shall apply when a snow route restricted parking declaration has been
issued by the city manager. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
   B.   Declaration Of Snow Route Restricted Parking: Whenever snow
accumulations of three inches (3") or more occur, the city manager shall have
the authority to issue a snow restricted parking declaration. (Ord. 51-08, 7-
21-2008)
   C.   Notification To The Public: The city manager shall request the
cooperation of the local press, radio, and television media to announce the
declaration of snow route restricted parking. The provisions of this section
designating snow route restricted parking shall be effective not less than six
(6) hours after the initial announcement of the declaration. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
   D.   Parking Prohibited Under Certain Conditions: After the time specified
in the declaration of snow route restricted parking, it shall be unlawful for
any person to obstruct the orderly plowing or removal of snow from the city
streets by parking or otherwise leaving unattended any vehicle upon any street
designated as a snow route during the times set forth in subsection E of this
section. During the period of the declaration, the parking restrictions of this
section shall supersede all other parking regulations relating to the streets
designated as snow routes. (Ord. 51-08, 7-21-2008)
   E.   Designation Of Snow Routes:
      1.   Snow routes shall be designated by signs. Parking shall be
prohibited from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the
odd numbered side of the following streets on odd numbered days and on the even
numbered side of the following streets on even numbered days:
Alta Vista Street from University Avenue to Kirkwood Street.
Asbury Road.
Bryant Street.
Cedar Cross Road.
Central Avenue from 22nd Street to 32nd Street.
Clarke Drive from West Locust Street to Asbury Road.
Delhi Street.
Fremont Avenue.
Hill Street.
Kane Street from Kaufmann Avenue to Chaney Road and from Shetland Court to
Carter Road.
Kaufmann Avenue.
Kelly Lane.
Loras Boulevard.
North Grandview Avenue from Dodge Street to Rosedale Avenue and from Avoca
Street to West 32nd Street.
Old Mill Road.
Pennsylvania Avenue.
Rhomberg Avenue.
Rockdale Road.
South Grandview Avenue.
University Avenue from West 9th Street to Alpine Street and from Glen Oak
Street to John F. Kennedy Road.
West Locust Street from West 17th Street to a point one thousand three hundred
feet (1,300') east of Clarke Drive.
Windsor Avenue.
Wooten Street.
East 22nd Street from Windsor Avenue to Central Avenue.
East 24th Street from Windsor Avenue to Central Avenue.
      East 32nd Street from Jackson Street to Central Avenue.
West 32nd Street from Central Avenue to Fink Street. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008;
amd. Ord. 12-10, 3-1-2010)
      2.   Parking shall be prohibited from one o'clock (1:00) A.M. to six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the odd numbered side of the following streets on odd
numbered days and on the even numbered side of the following streets on even
numbered days:
Kane Street from Chaney Road to Shetland Court.
North Grandview Avenue from Rosedale Avenue to Avoca Street.
University Avenue from Alpine Street to Glen Oak Street.
West Locust Street from Clarke Drive to a point one thousand three hundred feet
(1,300') east of Clarke Drive.
   F.   Termination Of Snow Route Parking Restrictions: Whenever the city
manager shall find that the conditions which gave rise to the declaration no
longer exist, the city manager is authorized to declare the termination of the
snow route parking restrictions, in whole or in part, effective immediately
upon announcement. When the termination is announced, it shall then be lawful
to park on those streets in accordance with the regular parking provisions. The
city manager shall request the cooperation of the local press, radio, and
television media to announce the termination of the snow route parking
restrictions. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.683: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   When it becomes necessary to plow or remove snow from streets, which
because of the accumulation of snow thereon causes such a hindrance to traffic
as constitutes an emergency unless the snow is promptly plowed or removed, the
city manager shall by appropriate public media declare the beginning of an
emergency and the application of emergency snow parking regulations which
regulations shall remain in force and effect until lifted by the city manager.
   B.   For the purpose of this division, the accumulation of snow on any
streets or area sufficient for the application of emergency regulations herein
shall be any such accumulation of snow which hinders the safe movement of
traffic thereon or that impedes the ability of emergency vehicles and public
transportation vehicles to travel safely and expeditiously over such streets or
areas.
   C.   The city manager is hereby authorized and empowered to erect signs
prohibiting parking upon any street in the city and upon any city owned parking
lot, except arterial streets for which provisions are hereinafter made, upon
which snow plowing or snow removal equipment is operating, and upon the
erection of such signs parking thereon shall be prohibited until such signs
shall be removed at the direction of the city manager.
   D.   Upon the declaration of emergency by the city manager as provided in
this section, emergency snow parking regulations as to arterial streets in the
city shall mean there shall be no parking on the odd numbered side of any
arterial street from nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and
there shall be no parking on the even numbered side of any arterial street from
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. These emergency snow
parking regulations shall include those arterial streets where parking is
prohibited at any time on one side of the arterial street. These emergency snow
parking regulations shall not apply to those arterial streets where parking is
prohibited on both sides of such arterial street at any time.
      1.   The provisions of this section shall supersede all other parking
regulations in force and posted on any arterial street during such emergency
and shall require no posting of the emergency no parking snow regulations as to
arterial streets.
      2.   Arterial streets shall be such streets as are designated as such
from time to time. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.684: PARKING LOTS:
No "vehicle", as defined in this title, shall be parked upon or in any parking
lot owned by the city upon which snow plowing or snow removal equipment is
operating, and upon the erection of such signs, parking thereon shall be
prohibited until such signs shall be removed at the direction of the city
manager. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.685: REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTING VEHICLES:
   A.   Authorized: Any vehicle located or parked within the limits of any
street in the city or parked in or upon any city owned parking lot which is
substantially interfering with the prompt and orderly plowing or removal of
snow or ice from such streets or such parking lot in violation of this division
is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be towed or removed by or under the
direction of the city manager to any place designated by the city manager for
safekeeping.
   B.   Compliance: The towing and storage of vehicles parked in violation of
this division shall be in accordance with sections
9-15-321.770,
9-15-321.771, and
9-15-321.772 of this title. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.686 - 9-14-321.699: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 6. PARKING SPACES FOR THE DISABLED
9-14-321.700: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this division is to establish permanent parking for disabled
persons. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.701: FINDINGS OF FACT:
The city council finds there is a need for permanent parking places for
disabled persons in order that various facilities, businesses, and residences
within the city will be accessible to and be functional for disabled persons.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.702: SPECIAL PARKING PLACES DESIGNATED:
The city manager is hereby authorized to designate such special parking places
for disabled persons as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this
division. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.703: DESIGNATION OF PARKING PLACES GENERALLY; SPECIFICATIONS FOR
ANGULAR PARKING FOR DISABLED PERSONS:
   A.   Special parking places are hereby set aside as special parking places
for disabled persons and shall be designated as special parking places only for
parking motor vehicles displaying a special identification device issued by an
official state or federal agency.
   B.   Angular parking places designated for disabled person parking shall
have a parking place width of at least eight feet (8') with an additional
adjacent access aisle of a minimum five feet (5') in width to provide for
access to and from the parking space by disabled persons who are confined to
wheelchairs or need the use of walkers or crutches for mobility. Where such
angular parking spaces are designated "van accessible", the width of the
angular parking place shall be at least eight feet (8') with an additional
adjacent access aisle of a minimum eight feet (8') in width. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-14-321.704: DISABILITY SIGNS REQUIRED:
   A.   Parking spaces designated as special parking places for disabled
persons shall be identified with the disability parking sign on a vertical post
bearing the international symbol of accessibility; the fine is two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for improper use.
   B.   Any person who owns or leases rental property in the city and is
required to provide disabled parking by the Iowa Code shall identify each
parking space with a disability parking sign bearing the international symbol
of accessibility; the fine is two hundred dollars ($200.00) for improper use.
(Ord. 20-15, 3-12-2015, eff. 7-1-2015)
9-14-321.705: PROHIBITED USE OF PARKING PLACES OR IDENTIFICATION DEVICES:
   A.   Violation: The use of a disabled person space, including the access
aisle, located on either public or private property, by a motor vehicle not
displaying a special identification device issued by an official state or
federal agency, or by a motor vehicle displaying such a device but not being
used by a disabled person, as operator or passenger, is prohibited and is a
misdemeanor for which a fine may be imposed upon the owner, operator, or lessee
of the motor vehicle. The fine for each violation shall be two hundred dollars
($200.00).
   B.   Parking Of Vehicle: Each motor vehicle authorized to use a disabled
person space shall be parked within such parking spaces as are established and
designated by appropriate markings. Each motor vehicle authorized to use a
disabled person space when operated or moved therein and therefrom shall be
operated or moved within the traffic lanes established and designated by
appropriate markings. It shall be prohibited for any person to cause, allow, or
permit any motor vehicle to park across, blocking or within the accessible
access aisle of a disabled person parking space. The fine for each violation
shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 18-12, 2-20-2012)
   C.   Snow Removal:
      1.   The owner of any property on which is located any disabled parking
spaces and/or access aisles shall not allow any snow or ice, or accumulations
thereof, on the property to impede the free access and use of such disabled
parking spaces or access aisles.
      2.   No person shall use a disabled parking space or access aisle,
located on either public or private property, for the storage of snow.
      3.   A property owner notified by written notification from the city
manager of a violation of this subsection shall remove the snow or ice, or
accumulations thereof, within twenty four (24) hours of receipt of the
notification. (Ord. 10-10, 2-15-2010)
9-14-321.706: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES PARKING IN VIOLATION OF CHAPTER:
   A.   Any motor vehicle located or parked in a special parking place
designated for disabled persons in violation of section
9-14-321.705 of this chapter may be towed or removed by or under the direction
of the city manager.
   B.   The towing and storage of motor vehicles parked in violation of this
division shall be in accordance with sections
9-15-321.770,
9-15-321.771 and
9-15-321.772 of this title. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.707: BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   There is hereby established a business district, pursuant to Iowa Code
section 321L.5(4)(a), for the purpose of allocating disabled person parking
spaces within said district.
   B.   The said business district shall be defined as municipal parking lots
and the parking meter district as described in sections
9-14-321.643 and
9-14-321.666 of this chapter. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.708: TEMPORARY DISABLED PERSON PARKING METER HOODS:
   A.   Temporary disabled person parking meter hoods may be leased to churches
and nonprofit organizations for services or events in the parking meter
district only when additional temporary parking stalls are required to
accommodate disabled persons.
   B.   Parking meter hoods shall be white in color and be embossed with the
international symbol of accessibility signifying utilization by a disabled
person parking patron only.
   C.   The city manager shall establish fees for utilization of the hoods. A
deposit fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per hood to cover the cost of the hood
and lock shall be paid prior to the leasing of the hood. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-14-321.709: RESERVED TIME DESIGNATED DISABLED PERSON PARKING STALLS:
Parking places posted as reserved time designated disabled person parking
stalls shall be identified with a disability parking sign bearing the
international symbol of accessibility and the day and/or hours of the reserved
disabled person parking. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.710: SPECIAL PREPAID PARKING PERMITS FOR SPECIFIC WHEELCHAIR DEPENDENT
DISABLED PERSONS:
   A.   Special prepaid parking permits for specific wheelchair dependent
disabled persons shall be issued on an annual basis by the parking division to
specific wheelchair dependent disabled persons for use by such persons for
parking in the parking meter district.
   B.   The purpose of a special prepaid parking permit is to provide short
term parking privileges to certain disabled persons. Parking pursuant to such
permits shall be limited to a maximum of two (2) hours at a metered stall.
   C.   A special prepaid parking permit shall exempt the person to whom the
permit is issued from the provisions of this chapter, requiring the depositing
of coins in a parking meter at a metered stall where such person parks a
vehicle.
   D.   A special prepaid parking permit shall be issued by the parking
division upon the filing with the division of a permit application and the
payment of an annual fee, if the applicant establishes the following:
      1.   The applicant is a wheelchair dependent disabled person who is the
operator of a specially equipped van for wheelchair dependent disabled persons;
      2.   Such person cannot negotiate curbings and/or curb cuts to reach
parking meters;
      3.   Such person is not physically capable of inserting coins into a
parking meter and activating the parking meter handle; and
      4.   Such person cannot retrieve parking tickets from the windshield of
the vehicle. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.711 - 9-14-321.719: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 7. RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT PROGRAM
9-14-321.720: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The city council of the city finds and declares that the provisions of this
division are enacted for the following reasons:
   A.   To reduce the traffic congestion resulting from the use of streets
within residential districts for vehicles parked by persons not residing within
the residential district;
   B.   To protect the residential districts from polluted air, excessive
noise, and refuse caused by the entry of such vehicles;
   C.   To protect the residents of these residential districts from
unreasonable burden in gaining access to their residences;
   D.   To preserve the character of these districts as residential districts;
   E.   To preserve the value of the property in these residential districts;
   F.   To promote traffic safety and the safety of children and other
pedestrians in these residential districts;
   G.   To forestall dangers arising from the blocking of fire lanes, hydrants,
and other facilities required by emergency vehicles, both in reaching the
victim and in transporting them to the hospital; and
   H.   To promote the peace, comfort, convenience, and welfare of all
inhabitants of the city. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.721: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this division, the following terms shall have the meanings
listed below:
BLOCK FACE: All the properties on one side of a given street existing between
two (2) consecutive intersecting streets.
DWELLING UNIT: A building or portion of a building which is exclusively
arranged, occupied, or intended to be occupied as living quarters for one
family, but not including dwelling units in hotels, rooming houses,
institutions, dormitories, or convalescent or nursing homes.
MOTOR VEHICLE: A vehicle licensed as a private passenger car or a motorcycle or
light pickup truck but not including any other truck or road tractor.
PEAK PERIOD: That time interval between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
and five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M. daily or between such hours as requested by
the petitioners during which the highest percentage of overall resident and
nonresident parking utilization occurs.
RESIDENT: A person who maintains a bona fide occupancy within a Residential
Parking Permit District.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: A contiguous area containing public streets or parts
thereof abutted by residential property, or residential and nonbusiness
property including, but not limited to, schools, parks, churches, hospitals,
and nursing homes.
RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT DISTRICT: A residential area designated by ordinance
as herein provided. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.722: RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT PROGRAM ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Residential Parking Permit Program. The procedure
for being designated a Residential Parking Permit District shall be as follows:
   A.   Petition:
      1.   Required: In order to be considered for a Residential Parking Permit
District designation, a group of residents must submit a petition to the City
Manager containing the signature of an adult member of at least sixty percent
(60%) of the dwelling units in the residential area. Petitions shall only be
considered for areas which contain at least four (4) adjacent block faces or
fifty (50) curb parking spaces. The boundaries of and the streets within the
proposed permit parking district shall be clearly identified on each page of
the petition. The petition shall also state clearly that, if the district is
approved that participation in the program is mandatory, only those vehicles
with a permit shall be permitted to park in the Residential Parking Permit
District between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M.
daily, or such other hours as may be requested by the petition and approved by
the City Council, except Sundays and holidays, and an annual fee will be
charged for a parking permit for each vehicle. The necessary petition can be
obtained from the Office of the City Clerk. A cover letter explaining the
reasons for the request and a map showing the boundaries of the proposed
parking permit district shall accompany the petition.
      2.   Exception: A petition may be considered for an area which contains
less than four (4) adjacent block faces or fifty (50) curb parking spaces if
there are extenuating conditions that render such requirement unreasonable.
Upon the recommendation of the City Manager, such requirement may be waived by
the City Council if it finds that the proposed Residential District is isolated
or separated from other residential areas by topographical features or by
commercial area. The City Council shall not grant such a waiver, however, if it
determines that the only basis for granting such a waiver is the convenience of
the residents or if it determines that the waiver is being requested by the
petitioners to prevent opposition to establishing a district. All other
requirements of this division must be established.
      3.   Consideration: A petition for creation of a Residential Parking
Permit District in an area may only be submitted for consideration once per
quarter.
   B.   Parking Study: Upon receipt of a valid petition, the City Manager shall
cause a parking study of the area identified in the petition to be conducted. A
Residential Parking Permit District may be established only if the results of
the study demonstrate that the following criterions are satisfied during peak
periods:
      1.   At least seventy percent (70%) of the curbside parking spaces in the
proposed parking permit district were utilized during peak periods. For
purposes of this criterion, a legal curbside parking space shall be twenty
three (23) linear feet.
      2.   At least twenty five percent (25%) of the curbside parking spaces in
the proposed parking district were utilized by nonresident parkers. For
purposes of this criterion, the latest available motor vehicle registration
information shall be used.
      3.   The parking study will be completed within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the petition, except in specific circumstances deemed necessary by
the City Engineer.
      4.   No more than four (4) site visits will be completed as part of a
parking study, except in specific circumstances deemed necessary by the City
Engineer.
      5.   In order to receive a recommendation to the City Council for
creation of a Residential Parking Permit District the conditions in subsections
B1 and B2 of this section must be met a minimum of one time during the site
visits.
   C.   Parking Study Report And Recommendation: Upon completion of the parking
study, if the conditions of subsection B of this section are established, the
City Manager shall make a report and recommendation to the City Council, based
upon the petition and results of the survey, on whether or not to designate the
proposed parking district or a portion thereof as a Residential Parking Permit
District and the hours such restrictions are to be in effect. The
recommendation shall take the following into account:
      1.   The effect on the safety of the residents of the proposed
Residential Parking Permit District from intensive parking by nonresidents;
      2.   The difficulty or inability of residents of the proposed Residential
Parking Permit District to obtain adequate curbside parking adjacent to or near
their residences because of widespread use of available curbside parking spaces
by nonresident motorists;
      3.   The likelihood of alleviating, by use of the Residential Parking
Permit Program, any problem of nonavailability of residential parking spaces;
and
      4.   The desire of the residents in the proposed residential parking
permit area for the institution of a Residential Parking Permit District and
the willingness of those residents to bear the cost incidental to the
administration of the Residential Parking Permit Program.
   D.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of the report and recommendation from the
City Manager, the City Council shall set a public hearing on the petition. Upon
completion of the public hearing, the City Council may reject the petition or
adopt an ordinance designating the permit area as a Residential Parking Permit
District and the hours such parking restrictions are to be in effect.
   E.   Amendments:
      1.   Amendments to the existing districts for expansion or reduction of
the district must be requested by submitting to the City Manager a petition
containing the signatures of an adult member of at least sixty percent (60%) of
the dwelling units in the residential area proposed for expansion or reduction
to the district.
      2.   Amendments to the existing districts for a change in the days/times
must comply with the standards for establishment of a district.
      3.   An amendment to expand or reduce a district will not be considered
if the proposed change will not meet the requirement of two (2) block faces
unless there are extenuating conditions that render such requirement
unreasonable.
      4.   Expansion areas of a district will inherit the same days/times for
parking restrictions as the previously established district. (Ord. 38-19, 9-3-
2019)
9-14-321.723: POSTING OF RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT SIGNS:
Following adoption of an ordinance designating a Residential Parking Permit
District, signs shall be erected in the designated area indicating the hours
which curbside parking in the designated area is prohibited, except Sundays and
holidays, unless the vehicle properly displays a parking permit. (Ord. 44-08,
6-16-2008)
9-14-321.724: NOTICE TO RESIDENTS OF DESIGNATION OF RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT
DISTRICT:
Following adoption of an ordinance to designate a Residential Parking Permit
District, the Parking Division shall mail to every dwelling unit within the
designated district the following documents:
   A.   A notice of designation which shall inform the residents in the
designated area of:
      1.   The existence, exact location, and numerical designation of the
Residential Parking Permit District;
      2.   The parking restrictions applicable to all vehicle curbside parking
spaces along streets in the designated area which do not properly display a
parking permit authorized by this division; and
      3.   The procedures to obtain a residential parking permit.
   B.   An application for residential parking permit on which the applicant is
to provide the following information for each vehicle to receive a residential
parking permit:
      1.   The name and residential address of the owner of the vehicle;
      2.   The name, residential address, and driver's license number of the
principal operator of the vehicle;
      3.   The make, model, license plate number, and registration number of
the vehicle; and
      4.   The signature of the applicant for the residential parking permit.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.725: ISSUANCE OF RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT:
   A.   A residential parking permit shall be issued upon the applicant's
payment of the annual residential parking permit fee and submission of a
completed residential parking permit application. A separate parking permit fee
and application is required for each motor vehicle the applicant parks curbside
within the district.
Not more than four (4) residential parking permits shall be issued to each
dwelling unit.
Not more than two (2) guest parking permits shall be issued to each dwelling
unit within a Residential Parking Permit District.
Residential parking permits and guest parking permits shall be issued for an
annual fee established by the City Manager which shall be used to offset the
cost of operation and administration of the Residential Parking Permit Program.
Permit fees are not refundable or eligible for proration.
The owner of a nonresidential building in a parking permit district which was
formerly a residential building may apply for residential parking permits as
provided herein. The number of permits which may be issued for such
nonresidential building shall be limited to the number of permits that would
have been available when the building was used for residential purposes.
   B.   The residential parking permit shall be permanently affixed to the
inside bottom left corner of the front windshield. Guest permits shall be
prominently displayed. Vehicles not equipped with a front windshield shall
permanently affix the permit in a prominent location.
   C.   No residential parking permit shall be issued for a vehicle whose owner
or principal operator is not a resident in the designated Residential Parking
Permit District.
   D.   The applicant for, and holder of, the residential parking permit shall
be the owner or principal operator of the vehicle receiving the parking permit.
   E.   The users of guest permits shall be for the primary purpose of visiting
the principal permit holder's residence and must be at the premises while the
guest permit is being utilized.
   F.   No residential parking permit or guest permit shall be transferred or
sold to another party. (Ord. 34-19, 8-5-2019)
9-14-321.726: RENEWAL OF RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT:
   A.   The residential parking permit shall be renewed annually during the
month of August and expires on August 31 of each year.
   B.   Upon the permit holder's payment of the residential parking permit
renewal fee and submission of a completed residential parking permit
application, the holder shall receive a new parking permit valid for a one year
period. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.727: TRANSFER OF RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT:
   A.   Upon the permit holder's payment of a residential parking permit
transfer fee established by the City Manager, the submission of a completed
residential parking permit application and the surrender of the existing
residential parking permit, the permit holder shall receive a new residential
parking permit to be transferred to another qualifying vehicle.
   B.   The transfer of the residential parking permit to another qualifying
vehicle shall not affect its expiration date. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.728: RESPONSIBILITY OF PERMIT HOLDER:
   A.   The holder of a residential parking permit or guest parking permit
shall be permitted to stand or park a motor vehicle operated by such holder in
the designated Residential Parking Permit District during such time as the
parking of such vehicles therein is permitted. While such vehicle for which a
residential parking permit has been issued is so parked, or a vehicle
displaying a visitor permit, such permit shall be displayed as prescribed in
this division.
   B.   A residential parking permit or guest parking permit does not guarantee
or reserve to the holder a parking space within the designated permit parking
district. A parking permit does not authorize the standing or parking of any
vehicle in such places and during such times as the stopping, standing, or
parking of vehicles is prohibited or set aside for specific types of vehicles
and does not excuse the violation of any traffic regulation in the Residential
Parking District.
   C.   Whenever the holder of a residential or guest parking permit, or the
vehicle for which the parking permit was issued, no longer fulfills one or more
of the applicable provisions of this division controlling issuance, renewal, or
transfer of parking permits, the holder shall so notify the Parking Division.
   D.   Until its expiration, surrender, or revocation, a parking permit shall
remain valid for such time as the holder continues to reside within the
designated Residential Parking Permit District.
   E.   A parking permit shall be valid only in the Residential Parking Permit
District for which it is issued. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.729: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this division shall not apply to clearly marked
service vehicles doing business in the designated residential parking permit
district during the time they are working in the district insofar as they are
clearly marked.
   B.   Whenever metered parking is in effect in any portion of a residential
parking permit district, this division shall not apply to such metered parking.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.730: WAIVER OF RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT REGULATIONS:
Upon receipt of an application for the waiver of the parking requirements of a
residential parking permit district, the city council may by resolution suspend
such parking regulations for specific circumstances and special events as the
city council may deem appropriate. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.731: WITHDRAWAL OF DESIGNATION OF RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT DISTRICT:
   A.   Action to withdraw a residential parking permit district designation
may be made by a petition signed by an adult member of at least sixty percent
(60%) of the dwelling units in the designated district.
   B.   Upon receipt of a valid petition, the city council shall set a public
hearing on the question of withdrawing the residential parking permit district
designation. Upon completion of the public hearing, the city council may repeal
the ordinance designating the residential parking permit district.
   C.   Following any repeal of the ordinance establishing a residential
parking permit district, the parking division shall notify each resident within
the district of such city council action.
   D.   The effective date of withdrawal of the designation shall be upon
publication of the repealing ordinance. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.732: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be a violation of this division for any person to:
   A.   Park or stand in designated districts during the restricted hours
without displaying the proper permit.
   B.   Represent in any manner or form that a vehicle is entitled to a parking
permit authorized by this division when it is not so entitled. The display of a
parking permit on a vehicle not entitled to such a parking permit shall
constitute such a representation.
   C.   Duplicate, or attempt to duplicate, by any means, a parking permit
authorized by this division. It shall also be a violation of this division to
display upon any vehicle such a duplicate parking permit. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-
2008)
9-14-321.733: RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT DISTRICT A:
   A.   The following described area constitutes a residential parking permit
district designated as residential parking permit district A:
      Grace Street, from Ida Street to North Algona Street.
   B.   No vehicle shall park curbside in residential parking permit district A
during the hours of seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. daily, except Sundays and holidays, without displaying a valid parking
permit issued by the city. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008; amd. Ord. 53-19, 12-16-2019)
9-14-321.734: RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT DISTRICT B:
   A.   The following described area constitutes a residential parking permit
district designated as residential parking permit district B:
      East side of Bluff Street from West 1st Street to West 3rd Street.
      Emmett Street, from St. Mary's Street to Bluff Street.
      St. Mary's Street, from West 3rd Street to Emmett Street.
      West 3rd Street, from St. Mary's Street to Bluff Street.
   B.   No vehicles shall park curbside in residential parking permit district
B during the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
daily, except Sundays and holidays, without displaying a valid parking permit
issued by the city. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.735: RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT DISTRICT C:
   A.   The following described area constitutes a residential parking permit
district designated as Residential Parking Permit District C:
      Clarke Drive from the east property line of 1687 Clarke Drive to St.
Ambrose Street.
      Hoyt Street.
      North Grandview Avenue, west side, from Rosedale Street to the north
property line of 2165 North Grandview Avenue, east side, from Clarke Drive to
the north property line of 2280 North Grandview Avenue.
      Saint Ambrose Street, both sides, from Clarke Drive to Sunnyview Drive.
      Sunnyview Drive, from North Grandview Avenue to St. Ambrose Street.
      Ungs Street, south side.
   B.   No vehicles shall park curbside in Residential Parking Permit District
C during the hours of seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. daily, except Sundays and holidays, without displaying a valid parking
permit issued by the City. (Ord. 42-17, 10-2-2017)
9-14-321.736: RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT DISTRICT D:
   A.   The following described area constitutes a Residential Parking Permit
district designated as Residential Parking Permit District D:
      Alicia Street, from Pennsylvania Avenue to Andrea Street.
      Amy Court, from Marjorie Circle to the northerly end.
      Lucy Drive, from Pennsylvania Avenue to Welu Drive.
      Marjorie Circle, between Pennsylvania Avenue and Amy Court.
      Marjorie Circle, from Amy Court to Andrea Street.
   B.   No vehicles shall park curbside in Residential Parking Permit District
D during the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M.
daily, on school days, without displaying a valid parking permit issued by the
City. (Ord. 36-14, 6-2-2014)
9-14-321.737: RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT DISTRICT E:
   A.   The following described area constitutes a residential parking permit
district designated as Residential Parking Permit District E:
      Algona Street, both sides, from North Grandview Avenue to Green Street.
      Auburn Street, both sides, from North Grandview Avenue to Dexter Street.
      Avoca Street, both sides, from Rosedale Avenue to Green Street.
      Grandview Avenue, North, south side, from Avoca Street to Auburn Street.
      Rosedale Avenue, north side, from Avoca Street to the west property line
of 2095 Rosedale Avenue.
      Rosedale Avenue, south side, from Avoca Street to the alley west of Avoca
Street.
   B.   No vehicles shall park curbside in Residential Parking Permit District
E during the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to two thirty o'clock (2:30)
P.M. daily, except Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays without displaying a valid
parking permit issued by the City. (Ord. 42-17, 10-2-2017)
9-14-321.738: RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT DISTRICT F:
   A.   The following described area constitutes a residential parking permit
district designated as Residential Parking Permit District F:
      Rosemont Street, from Pennsylvania Avenue to Creston Court.
   B.   No vehicles shall park curbside in Residential Parking Permit District
F during the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to three o'clock (3:00) P.M.,
except Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, without displaying a valid parking
permit issued by the City. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.739: RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT DISTRICT G:
   A.   The following described area constitutes a Residential Parking Permit
District designated as Residential Parking Permit District G:
      Cornell Street.
      Pickett Street.
      West 15th Street from Cornell Street to Fairview Street.
      West 16th Street from Catherine Street to Fairview Place.
   B.   No vehicles shall park curbside in Residential Parking Permit District
G during the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight, except Sundays and holidays, without displaying a valid parking
permit issued by the City. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-14-321.740: RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT DISTRICT H:
   A.   The following described area constitutes a Residential Parking Permit
District designated as Residential Parking Permit District H:
      Hansel Drive, between Keystone Drive and Keymont Drive.
      Key Way Drive, both sides, from Pennsylvania Avenue to Keymont Drive.
      Keymont Drive from Key Way Drive to its westerly terminus.
      Keystone Drive from Phyllrich to its westerly terminus.
      Norland Drive, both sides, from Keymont Drive to Keystone Drive.
      Phyllrich Drive from Keystone Drive to Keymont Drive.
      Vizaleea Drive from Pennsylvania Avenue to Keystone Drive.
   B.   No vehicles shall park curbside in Residential Parking Permit District
H during the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to three o'clock (3:00) P.M.,
on school days only, without displaying a valid parking permit issued by the
City. (Ord. 27-19, 6-3-2019)
9-14-321.741: HOME HEALTHCARE PROVIDERS:
The City Manager may issue, without charge, to a business providing home
healthcare a special parking permit that allows an employee of such business to
park in a Residential Parking Permit District. Such permit shall only be valid
while a home healthcare employee is at a residence within the district and is
actually engaged in providing care to a resident of the district. The permit
shall not be available to a self-employed home healthcare provider. The permit
may be revoked by the City Manager for failure to comply with the requirements
of this section. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 15
IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
Division 1. Generally
9-15-321.750: Intent And Purpose
Division 2. Scofflaw
9-15-321.751: Removal And Impoundment
9-15-321.752: Owner Responsibility
Division 3. Street Storage
9-15-321.760: Intent And Purpose
9-15-321.761: Definitions
9-15-321.762: Unattended Vehicles
9-15-321.763: Exclusion
Division 4. Towing And Storage
9-15-321.770: Notice To Owner
9-15-321.771: Unauthorized Removal Of Vehicle
9-15-321.772: Auction Of Vehicles
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
9-15-321.750: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted as an enforcement procedure for protection of the
public peace, safety and welfare and shall be used generally for the prevention
and removal of traffic hazards, prevention, and abatement of public nuisances
arising from traffic violations, and for the protection of public rights in the
use of City streets and thoroughfares. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 2. SCOFFLAW
9-15-321.751: REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Any vehicle having against it the following number of unpaid
violations, charging that such vehicle was parked, stopped, or standing in
violation of any law, ordinance, or local authority of the City shall be deemed
a public nuisance:
      1.   Five (5) or more unpaid violations; or
      2.   Three (3) unpaid violations where the most recent violation is more
than thirty (30) days past due.
   B.   The City Manager is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be removed
such vehicle from property owned by the City or private property with the
property owner's consent at the sole cost and expense of the vehicle owner. The
City Manager shall have the power and is hereby authorized to remove the
vehicle by either private or government equipment as they may deem advisable.
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-15-321.752: OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
The registered owner of a vehicle having against it three (3) or more
outstanding unpaid violations shall be presumed to be the owner at the time the
violations were in fact issued and shall be severally responsible for the
offenses and the impoundment, except where the use of the vehicle was secured
by the operator without the owner's consent. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 3. STREET STORAGE
9-15-321.760: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The presence of unattended and unmoved motor vehicles in or about public places
for more than twenty four (24) hours tends to impede traffic in the street,
interfere with the enjoyment of property, reduce the value of private property,
invite vandalism and plundering, create fire hazards, extend and aggravate
urban blight, and result in a serious hazard to the public health, safety,
comfort, community welfare, and happiness of the residents of the City. (Ord.
44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-15-321.761: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter:
MOVE OR MOVING: Means a change in place or position by driving an operational,
running, and registered vehicle. Move or moving does not include pushing,
pulling, dragging, trailering, or putting a vehicle in neutral to change its
position or location.
UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE: Means an operable or non-operable vehicle which has
remained in a stationary position on a public way for twenty four (24) hours or
more. (Ord. 30-18, 9-4-2018)
9-15-321.762: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit an unattended vehicle to
stand or park in or about a public place for twenty four (24) hours or more
without such vehicle being moved.
   B.   The City Manager, upon initiative or upon complaint, may take into
custody any vehicle standing or parking in violation of this chapter.
   C.   Upon evidence that the vehicle has been parked on a public way for more
than twenty four (24) hours without being moved, City Manager shall issue a
notice of fine under section
9-14-321.621 of this title. If such vehicle has not been moved within twenty
four (24) hours from the time of notice of fine, or if there is evidence that
the vehicle has been parked for more than forty eight (48) hours before
receiving the notice of fine, the City Manager may cause removal of the
vehicle. When conditions permit, the City Manager shall make a reasonable
effort to contact the last registered owner of the vehicle before summarily
removing the vehicle. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-15-321.763: EXCLUSION:
Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the immediate removal by the City
Manager of a motor vehicle which is parked in violation of any other section of
this title. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 4. TOWING AND STORAGE
9-15-321.770: NOTICE TO OWNER:
   A.   Whenever the City Manager has impounded a vehicle pursuant to this
chapter and such vehicle has not been reclaimed, a notice shall be provided
within twenty (20) days by certified mail to the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and all lien holders of record, addressed to their last known
addresses of record, that the vehicle has been taken into custody. Notice shall
be deemed given when mailed.
   B.   The notice shall describe the year, make, model, and serial number of
the vehicle, set forth the location of the facility where the vehicle is being
held, inform the owner and the lien holders of their right to reclaim the
vehicle within twenty one (21) days after accrued fines and costs for each
outstanding violation, towing, preservation, and storage charges resulting from
placing the vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of notice required
pursuant to this section.
   C.   The notice shall also state that the failure of the owner or lien
holders to exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle within the time period
provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner and all lien holders of all
right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle, and that such failure is
deemed consent to the sale of the vehicle at public auction or disposal to a
demolisher. If the owner and lien holders do not exercise their right to
reclaim such vehicle within the twenty one (21) day reclaiming period, such
owner and lien holders shall no longer have any right, title, claim, or
interest in or to such vehicle.
   D.   If the identity of the last registered owner cannot be determined, or
if the registration contains no address for the owner, or if it is impossible
to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and addresses of all lien
holders, notice by one publication in one newspaper of general circulation
shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of notice under this section.
   E.   The owner or any lien holder may, by written request, delivered to the
City Manager prior to the expiration of the twenty one (21) day reclaiming
period, obtain an additional fourteen (14) days within which the vehicle may be
reclaimed. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-15-321.771: UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF VEHICLE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove a vehicle from the
facility where it is being held without the prior payment of all accrued and
delinquent fines and costs for towing, preservation, and storage charges, and a
City administrative fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) payable to the City of
Dubuque resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and the costs of the
notice required pursuant to section
9-12-321.431 of this title.
   B.   The City Manager is authorized to summarily reimpound any vehicle
removed in violation of this section. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-15-321.772: AUCTION OF VEHICLES:
If a vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided in section
9-15-321.770 of this chapter, the City Manager shall dispose of such vehicle as
provided by the Code of Iowa. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 16
MISCELLANEOUS CITY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
Division 1. Noise
9-16-321.800: Vehicular Noise
Division 2. Trucks And/Or Machinery
9-16-321.805: Engine Brakes And Compression Brakes
9-16-321.806 - 9-16-321.899: Reserved
9-16-321.900: Operation Of Vehicles With Caterpillar Wheels Or Heavy Lugs
Restricted
9-16-321.901: Motor Truck Routes
9-16-321.902: Reserved
9-16-321.903: Heavy Vehicles Prohibited On Certain Bridges
Division 3. Administration
9-16-321.1000: Arrest, Notice To Appear
9-16-321.1001: Records Of Violations
9-16-321.1002: Authority Of Peace Officers To Stop Vehicles
9-16-321.1003: Road Work Zone Violations
Division 4. Prohibited Activities
9-16-321.2000: Moving Vehicle Into Prohibited Area
9-16-321.2001: Repairs
9-16-321.2002: Operation Of Advertising Vehicles
DIVISION 1. NOISE
9-16-321.800: VEHICULAR NOISE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause any
disturbing, excessive, or offensive noise which results in discomfort or
annoyance to any reasonable person of normal sensitivity by means of any radio,
compact disk player, stereo, speakers, cassette tape player, or similar sound
device in a motor vehicle.
   B.   The operation of any radio, compact disk player, stereo, speakers,
cassette tape player, or similar sound device in such a manner so as to be
audible at a distance of two hundred feet (200') from the motor vehicle shall
constitute evidence of a prima facie violation of this section.
   C.   The scheduled fine for a violation of this section shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 2. TRUCKS AND/OR MACHINERY
9-16-321.805: ENGINE BRAKES AND COMPRESSION BRAKES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or
cause to be used or operated within the city, any engine brake, compression
brake, or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or
deceleration of any vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual, or
explosive noise from such vehicle.
   B.   The usage of an engine brake, compression brake, or mechanical exhaust
device designed to aid in braking or deceleration in such a manner so as to be
audible at a distance of three hundred feet (300') from the motor vehicle shall
constitute evidence of a prima facie violation of this section.
   C.   The scheduled fine for a violation of this section shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-16-321.806 - 9-16-321.899: RESERVED:
(Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-16-321.900: OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITH CATERPILLAR WHEELS OR HEAVY LUGS
RESTRICTED:
Tractors or other machinery moving on caterpillar wheels or having heavy lugs
shall not be permitted to be moved over any of the streets without first
securing a route from the city manager and it shall be unlawful to move such
vehicle over any street other than shown in such routing instructions. (Ord.
44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-16-321.901: MOTOR TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   For purposes of this section a "marked highway" shall mean: Highway 20,
Highway 151, Highway 61, the Northwest Arterial, the Southwest Arterial, Kerper
Boulevard, Seippel Road, and Chavenelle Road.
   B.   Motor trucks registered for a gross weight limit exceeding ten thousand
(10,000) pounds (5 tons) must travel over marked highways when operating in the
city and may not depart from such marked highways, except that any motor truck
whose destination is in the city may depart from such highway at that point on
the highway nearest to its destination and then proceed directly to such
destination.
   C.   Motor trucks whose trips originate within the city must travel by the
most direct route to that point on a marked highway nearest to such point of
origin.
   D.   Motor trucks entering the city on an unmarked highway must proceed to
the nearest marked highway by the most direct route and then proceed to their
destination.
   E.   Motor trucks registered for a gross weight limit exceeding ten thousand
(10,000) pounds (5 tons) must not travel over the following streets:
         Ice Harbor Drive, from 1st Street to the 3rd Street Overpass.
         Main Street, from 5th Street to 9th Street.
   F.   Motor trucks originating in Dubuque County or with a destination
located in Dubuque County shall be authorized to drive on Central Avenue and
White Street.
   G.   The city manager is authorized to designate and establish by
appropriate signs alternate motor truck routes and to post signs limiting motor
trucks registered with a gross weight limit exceeding ten thousand (10,000)
pounds (5 tons) from operating on nonhighway streets and the streets designated
in subsection D of this section.
   H.   The provisions of this section governing the travel of motor trucks on
residential streets do not apply to public or private carriers of passengers on
tour, fixed demand response, or dial-a-ride routes or school or church buses.
   I.   The scheduled fine for a violation of this section is fifty dollars
($50.00). (Ord. 19-13, 4-1-2013; amd. Ord. 30-20, 8-3-2020; Ord. 1-23, 1-3-
2023; Ord. 55-23, 12-18-2023)
9-16-321.902: RESERVED:
(Ord. 19-13, 4-1-2013)
9-16-321.903: HEAVY VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN BRIDGES:
   A.   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate a
vehicle exceeding the posted gross vehicle weight limits on, or over the
following bridges:
 
10 tons Louise Lane Bridge
12 tons Brunskill Road Bridge
20 tons Cousins Road Bridge
 
   B.   This section shall not apply to implements of husbandry or to
implements of husbandry loaded on hauling units for transporting the implements
to locations for purposes of repair.
   C.   A person who violates this section shall, upon conviction or a guilty
plea, be subject to a fine determined by dividing the difference between the
actual weight of the vehicle and the maximum weight allowed by this section by
one hundred (100) and multiplying the quotient by two dollars ($2.00). (Ord.
44-08, 6-16-2008)
DIVISION 3. ADMINISTRATION
9-16-321.1000: ARREST, NOTICE TO APPEAR:
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provisions of this title, such officer may:
   A.   Immediately arrest such person; or
   B.   Without arresting the person, prepare in triplicate a written summons
to appear in court containing the name and address of such person, the
operator's or chauffeur's license number, if any, the registration number, if
any, of such person's vehicle, the offense charged, and the time when and the
place where such person shall appear in court. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-16-321.1001: RECORDS OF VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The clerk of court shall keep a full record of every case in which a
person is charged with any violation of this title.
   B.   Within ten (10) days after a conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any provision of this title, the clerk of
court shall prepare and immediately forward to the department of public safety
an abstract of the record of the court covering the case in which such person
was so convicted or forfeited bail, which abstract must be certified by the
person so required to prepare the same to be true and correct. (Ord. 44-08, 6-
16-2008)
9-16-321.1002: AUTHORITY OF PEACE OFFICERS TO STOP VEHICLES:
Any peace officer is authorized to stop any vehicle to require exhibition of
the driver's, operator's or chauffeur's license, to serve a summons or warning
of traffic violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the
vehicle with reference to size, weight, cargo, bills of lading, or other
manifest of employment and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-16-321.1003: ROAD WORK ZONE VIOLATIONS:
The scheduled fine for any moving traffic violation under this title, other
than for violating the speed limit, is doubled if the violation occurs within
any "road work zone" as defined in section
9-1-321.1 of this title. The scheduled fine for violating the speed limit in a
road work zone is as follows:
   A.   One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for speed not more than ten (10)
miles per hour over the posted speed limit.
   B.   Three hundred dollars ($300.00) for speed greater than ten (10) but not
more than twenty (20) miles per hour over the posted speed limit.
   C.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for speed greater than twenty (20) but
not more than twenty five (25) miles per hour over the posted speed limit.
   D.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for speed greater than twenty five
(25) miles per hour over the posted speed limit. (Ord. 51-12, 9-17-2012)
DIVISION 4. PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES
9-16-321.2000: MOVING VEHICLE INTO PROHIBITED AREA:
No person shall move a vehicle not owned by such person into any prohibited
area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-16-321.2001: REPAIRS:
No person shall repair or cause to be repaired any vehicle in the streets or
alleys, except in cases of emergency. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
9-16-321.2002: OPERATION OF ADVERTISING VEHICLES:
No person shall operate any vehicle upon the streets which, by loudspeakers or
mechanical devices, is used to advertise events or the sale of goods, wares, or
merchandise. (Ord. 44-08, 6-16-2008)
TITLE 10
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
10-1-1: Curb And Driveway Construction Permit
10-1-2: Sidewalk Installation And Repair
10-1-3: Snow And Ice Removal
10-1-4: Obstructing Public Ways
10-1-5: Expectoration
10-1-6: Hauling Of Dirt, Other Materials Through Streets
10-1-7: Unlawful Deposits
10-1-8: Removal Of Barricades Or Warning Devices
10-1-9: Driving On Sidewalk
10-1-10: Playing In Streets
10-1-11: Unused And Inoperable Vehicles
10-1-1: CURB AND DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION PERMIT:
   A.   Required For Construction Or Alteration: No person shall begin to
construct, reconstruct, repair, alter or change any curb, curb cut or driveway
on the public streets or alleys of the city without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the city manager, as provided by this section. (2007 Code § 41-
31)
   B.   Application For Permit: An applicant for a permit under this section
shall file with the city manager an application showing the name and address of
the owner of the property abutting the proposed work area, the name and address
of the party doing the work and such other information as the city manager
shall find reasonably necessary to the determination of whether a permit should
be issued. (2007 Code § 41-32)
   C.   Agreement Of Abutting Owner To Make Improvements Prerequisite To
Issuance: The owner of the abutting property shall agree, as a condition to the
granting of the permit required by this section, for such owner and such
owner's successors in title to the abutting property, to make, at the expense
of the abutting property, all necessary changes in the improvements as may
subsequently be found reasonably necessary for the preservation of the public
health, welfare or safety. (2007 Code § 41-33)
   D.   Council Approval Required For Issuance In Certain Areas:
      1.   Northwest Arterial: Access to the northwest arterial may be granted
only by the department of transportation with the concurrence of the city
manager. The city manager shall not concur in the granting of a permit under
this section for any driveway access onto the northwest arterial without prior
approval of the city council.
      2.   Spacing Between Access Locations: The minimum allowable spacing
between access locations shall be one thousand feet (1,000'). No access shall
be allowed on any intersecting side street under city jurisdiction within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of the edge of the northwest arterial, or within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of the edge of any planned additional through lanes.
(2007 Code § 41-34)
   E.   Issuance: The city manager shall issue a permit required by this
section for the work applied for if the city manager finds:
      1.   That the work will be done in accordance with the standard
specifications for curbs, curb cuts and driveways prepared by the city
engineer;
      2.   That the proposed work will not unreasonably interfere with
vehicular and pedestrian traffic, the demand and necessity for parking spaces
and means of egress and ingress to and from the property affected and adjacent
property; and
      3.   That the health, welfare and safety of the public will not be
unreasonably impaired. (2007 Code § 41-35)
10-1-2: SIDEWALK INSTALLATION AND REPAIR:
   A.   Installation:
      1.   The owner of any lot or parcel in the city, that abuts upon any
improved public street that has concrete or stone curb shall, at the owner's
cost, install to standard city specifications a sidewalk along the full length
of the portion of the lot or parcel abutting the public street when said lot or
parcel is developed or redeveloped or at the direction of city council. For
purposes of this subsection, "development or redevelopment" means any
improvement that creates a new parking lot, new principal structure, garage,
carport, covered deck, or covered patio on the lot or parcel or changes the
footprint of the parking lot, principal structure, garage, carport, covered
deck, or covered patio on the lot or parcel.
      2.   Upon application and for good cause shown, the city manager may
grant a full or partial exception to the above requirement. (Ord. 44-09, 9-8-
2009)
   B.   Duty Of Abutting Property Owner To Maintain: The abutting property
owner must maintain the area from the back of the curb to the right of way
line, and must keep such area in a safe condition free from defects, debris,
nuisances, obstructions or any other hazard. The abutting property owner must
maintain such area in a safe condition, in a state of good repair, and free
from defects. Notwithstanding the obligations imposed hereunder, the property
owner may not remove diseased trees or dead wood or plant, trim, remove or
treat any tree or plant material on public right of way without first obtaining
a permit from the city forester. (Ord. 57-14, 9-2-2014; amd. Ord. 43-24, 7-1-
2024)
   C.   Notice To Replace, Repair Or Reconstruct:
      1.   Whenever the city manager shall determine that the conditions of any
sidewalk as described in subsection B of this section exist, the city manager
shall serve notice by certified mail on the abutting property owner, as shown
by the records of the county auditor, requiring the abutting property owner to
replace, repair or reconstruct the sidewalk.
      2.   If the city manager determines that the replacement, repair or
reconstruction of the sidewalk is not practicable because of circumstances
beyond the control of the abutting property owner, the city manager may allow
or require a temporary repair of the sidewalk until such circumstances no
longer exist. (2007 Code § 41-102)
   D.   Collection Of Costs Of Replacement, Reconstruction Or Temporary Repair
By City: If the abutting property owner who has been notified pursuant to
subsection C of this section to repair, replace, reconstruct, or temporarily
repair the sidewalk shall fail to repair, replace, reconstruct, or temporarily
repair such sidewalk within thirty (30) days after the mailing of such notice,
the city manager may cause the required action to be performed and assess the
costs against the abutting property for collection in the same manner as a
property tax. (2007 Code § 41-103)
   E.   Installments: If any amount assessed against property under subsection
D of this section exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00), the assessment may be
paid in ten (10) annual installments, in the same manner and with the same
interest rates as provided for assessments against benefited property under the
code of Iowa. (2007 Code § 41-104)
   F.   Procedures For Levy: The procedures for making and levying a special
assessment pursuant to subsection D of this section and for an appeal of the
assessment are the same procedures as provided under the code of Iowa. (2007
Code § 41-105)
   G.   Sidewalk Inspection Policy: The city manager shall develop, with the
approval of the city council, a written sidewalk inspection policy which shall
govern the repair, replacement, reconstruction or temporary repair of
sidewalks. (2007 Code § 41-106)
10-1-3: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL:
   A.   Placement In Streets:
      1.   Deposits From Private Premises: No person, without the express
permission of the city manager, shall remove, or cause to be removed, any snow,
ice or accumulations thereof from any private premises and deposit the same, or
cause the same to be deposited, upon any public street, alley or sidewalk
within the city.
      2.   Deposits Restricting Safety, Access Of Traffic: No person, without
the express permission of the city manager, shall move or displace, or cause to
be moved or displaced, any snow, ice or accumulations thereof from any section
or part of a public street, alley or sidewalk to any other part of a public
street, alley or sidewalk when such movement or displacement restricts the
safety or free access of motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
      3.   Deposits Upon Areas Cleared For Use Of Traffic: When the traveled
portion of a street or alley has been cleared for the use of motor vehicle or
pedestrian traffic, no person, without the express permission of the city
manager, shall place, or cause to be placed, any snow, ice or accumulations
thereof upon the cleared areas of said streets or alleys. (2007 Code § 41-76)
   B.   Placement On Private Property: No person shall remove, or cause to be
removed, any snow, ice or accumulations thereof from any private premises,
public street, alley or sidewalk and deposit the same, or cause the same to be
deposited, upon other private property without the express consent of the owner
of said property. (2007 Code § 41-77)
   C.   Removal From Sidewalks:
      1.   Duty Of Abutting Owner: The owner of any lot or parcel thereof
abutting upon any sidewalk on the city streets shall promptly remove, or cause
to be removed, accumulations of snow, ice or slush from such sidewalks. (2007
Code § 41-86)
      2.   Removal By City; Assessment And Collection Of Costs:
         a.   Removal By City: In the event accumulations of snow, ice or slush
are permitted to remain on sidewalks for more than a reasonable length of time,
the city manager, when the city manager deems it necessary in the interests of
public safety, shall cause the same to be removed. (2007 Code § 41-87)
         b.   Collection Of Costs: When the city manager has caused
accumulations of snow, ice or slush to be removed from any sidewalk, the city
manager shall promptly ascertain the actual cost thereof, including the cost of
supervision, inspection and accounting, and shall certify such actual cost to
the city clerk who, in turn, shall promptly certify such cost to the county
treasurer and it shall then be collected with and in the same manner as general
property taxes in accordance with the provisions of law. (2007 Code § 41-88)
10-1-4: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
No person shall commit any of the following acts:
   A.   Causing Obstruction Without Permission: In any way obstruct or cause to
be obstructed, any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place by placing
therein or thereon any stone, lumber, brick, wood or other thing or by making
or causing to be made any excavation therein or thereon without having first
secured written permission from the city manager to do so.
   B.   Fuel Or Merchandise: Place or cause to be placed on any of the streets,
alleys, sidewalks or other public places, any cord, wood, lumber, brick, stone
or any other species of property or thing, and suffer the same to remain
thereon or therein for more than ten (10) hours after having been notified by
the city manager to remove the same; provided, that this subsection shall not
be construed to apply in cases of removal or importation of goods, wares and
merchandise belonging to merchants where the same do not remain as an
obstruction for more than ten (10) hours and do not occupy more than one-third
(1/3) of the width of the sidewalk from the building to the curb line.
   C.   Cart Or Vehicle: Obstruct any sidewalk by drawing, leading or driving
any cart or vehicle upon the same, or leave any cart, vehicle or animal upon
the same.
   D.   Cellar Door Or Grating Left Open: Keep or leave open any cellar door or
grating, or covering of any vault, on any street or sidewalk, or allow any such
cellar door, grating or covering belonging to the premises occupied by such
person, to be in an insecure condition and thereby dangerous to the public
safety. (2007 Code § 41-2)
10-1-5: EXPECTORATION:
No person shall, within the corporate limits of the city, expectorate upon a
public sidewalk, or public place or upon the floor of any public conveyance.
(2007 Code § 41-3)
10-1-6: HAULING OF DIRT, OTHER MATERIALS THROUGH STREETS:
No person shall, within the corporate limits of the city, haul, carry or convey
any dirt, manure, shavings, cinders, stone, sand, wood, hay, garbage, straw,
ashes or other substance on, over or across any paved street or alley in any
wagon or other vehicle which is so constructed as to allow any portion thereof
to fall or be deposited upon such street or alley. (2007 Code § 41-4)
10-1-7: UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS:
   A.   Papers, Cards, Advertisements: No person shall, within the corporate
limits of the city, throw and deposit or cause to be thrown and deposited, any
paper, cards, advertisements, or the like, into any street, alley, or other
public place within the city.
   B.   Bottles, Glass, Nails, Cans: No person shall throw or deposit upon any
street any bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance
likely to injure any person, animal, or vehicle upon such street, alley or
other public place.
   C.   Destructive Or Injurious Materials: Any person who drops or permits to
be dropped or thrown, upon any street, alley or other public place any
destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the same or cause it
to be removed. (2007 Code § 41-5)
10-1-8: REMOVAL OF BARRICADES OR WARNING DEVICES:
No person shall, within the corporate limits of the city, tear down, remove or
carry away, any fence, railing or other barricade or warning device placed
about any excavation or pile of dirt, rock, or other material, or remove or
carry away or extinguish any light which has been set as a warning at any
excavation or pile of material. (2007 Code § 41-7)
10-1-9: DRIVING ON SIDEWALK:
No person shall drive a vehicle within or upon any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway. (2007 Code § 41-9)
10-1-10: PLAYING IN STREETS:
   A.   Baseball Or Other Recreational Sports: No person shall, within the
corporate limits of the city, play baseball, football, or any other
recreational sport or game on any street, alley or other public place. (2007
Code § 41-6)
   B.   Sleigh Riding Or Skiing: No person shall use any public streets of the
city for sleighing, sleigh riding, coasting, tobogganing, bobsledding or
skiing. (2007 Code § 41-11)
10-1-11: UNUSED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES:
   A.    Purpose: The purpose of this article is to:
      1.   Promote and protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
residents and property owners in the City of Dubuque.
      2.   Protect property values and the health, safety, and general welfare
of the residents of the City of Dubuque by limiting the use of the public
right-of-way for the storage of unused vehicles, inoperable vehicles, unused
motor vehicles, and inoperable motor vehicles.
      3.   Protect the City of Dubuque's natural resources.
      4.   Promote the fair and equitable use of the public rights-of-way
within the City of Dubuque.
   B.   Definitions. The following terms when used in this article shall have
the following meanings:
      1.   "Unused vehicle," "unused motor vehicle," "inoperable vehicle" and
"inoperable motor vehicle" is any vehicle to which any one or more of the
following criteria applies:
         a.   Unlicensed. Any vehicle which is required to be registered under
the laws of the State of Iowa that is not registered for the current year.
         b.   Inoperable. Any vehicle not in a safe and current operating
condition such that, upon request of a City of Dubuque police officer or
nuisance enforcement officer, the vehicle cannot be started and moved a
distance of at least fifty (50) feet.
         c.   Uninsured. Any vehicle which lacks financial liability coverage,
or for which the owner does not possess and produce proof of financial
liability coverage, as required under Iowa Code § 321.20B.
         d.   Missing Glass. Any vehicle in which any portion of the vehicle's
windshield, window(s), head light(s), or tail light(s) is missing, regardless
of whether any such vehicle component is or was composed of glass or one or
more other materials.
         e.   Wheels and Tires. Any vehicle that lacks functional and usable
wheels or tires.
         f.   Broken or Loose Parts. Any vehicle with broken or loose parts
that constitute a danger because of exposed, sharp, or jagged edges, or that
make any interior portion of the vehicle, including the trunk or engine
compartment, accessible to children or animals.
         g.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals. Any vehicle that has become a
habitat for rats, mice, or other vermin or insects.
         h.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because
of its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat
to the public health or safety.
      2.   Mere licensing of a vehicle described in section (B)(1), above, does
not constitute a defense to the finding that the vehicle is in violation of
this article, provided that one or more other characteristics exist which
define an unused vehicle in this article.
      3.   "Motor vehicle" means every vehicle which is or is intended to be
self-propelled.
      4.   "Person" means any individual, association, organization,
corporation, partnership, firm (either incorporated or unincorporated), or
business entity of any type.
      5.   "Vehicle" means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, excepting
devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon rails or tracks, and
including without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
   C.   Keeping Or Storing Of Unused Or Inoperable Vehicles: No person shall
accumulate, store, or place, or permit the accumulation, storage, or placement,
of any unused vehicle in any public right-of-way within the City of Dubuque.
   D.   Vehicles That Cannot Move Under Their Own Power:
      1.   No person shall detach any, camper, motorized or vehicle-drawn
recreational vehicle, vehicle in tow, trailer of any type, or other vehicle
that cannot move under its own power from a towing vehicle and leave it
standing in any public right-of-way.
      2.   No person shall unload a pickup camper from a pickup truck and leave
it standing in any public right-of-way.
      3.   No person shall leave a watercraft, whether standing on a trailer or
standing by itself, on any public right-of-way, unless physically attached to
an operable motor vehicle.
      4.   Subsections 1, 2, and 3 shall not apply to the following:
         a.   A construction site as permitted by the City Manager;
         b.   The site of a special event as permitted by the City Manager; or
         c.   During loading or unloading of a camper, motorized or vehicle-
driven recreational vehicle, vehicle in tow, trailer of any type, or other
vehicle that cannot move under its owner power, including pickup campers and
watercraft, for a period not exceeding four continuous hours.
   E.   Penalties/Enforcement:
      1.   Any person who violates this article shall be subject to the
penalties and other relief provided in section
1-4-2 of this code.
      2.   Upon discovery of any unused vehicle in violation of this article,
the City Manager may initiate abatement proceedings as outlined in this
article.
      3.   In addition to any civil penalty and court costs which may be
imposed, any person who violates this article shall also be liable to the City
of Dubuque for the costs associated with abatement of the unused vehicle,
including actual costs, damages, expenses, staff time, and attorney fees
incurred by the City of Dubuque.
   F.   Abatement Procedure:
      1.   Upon judgment in favor of the City of Dubuque regarding any
municipal infraction issued pursuant to this article, the City Manager may
cause any vehicle which is subject to the judgment to be removed from the
public right-of-way and stored at a location designated by the City Manager.
      2.   Notice of removal shall be provided in accordance with section
9-15-321.770 of this code. Removal and storage of any such vehicle shall be in
accordance with sections
9-15-321.770,
9-15-321.771, and
9-15-321.772 of this code.
      3.   If, within six months from the date of the removal of a vehicle
under this section, the same vehicle is discovered in an inoperable or unused
condition in any public right-of-way, the City Manager may utilize the
abatement procedures in this section without first obtaining another judgment
on another municipal infraction. All notices required by this section must
nonetheless be provided, and all other procedures described herein must
nonetheless be followed. (Ord. 29-22, 9-6-2022)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Permit Requirements
10-2-2: Restoration Of Surface Generally
10-2-3: Guards Or Protection Required
10-2-4: Interference With Traffic
10-2-5: Time Period For Commencement Of Work
10-2-6: Manner Of Performing Work
10-2-7: Exemptions
10-2-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall make or cause to be made any
excavation in any public street, avenue, alley or other public place in the
city or dig up, cut into or remove any public sidewalk, curb or pavement
without first obtaining a permit from the city manager as provided in this
section. (2007 Code § 41-61)
   B.   Application; Accompanying Documents:
      1.   Filing Of Application: Before any permit required by this section
shall be issued, an application therefor shall be filed with the city manager
by the person desiring to do the work, which application shall state the place,
amount and purpose of the contemplated work, the time when the work is to be
started and the estimated time required for completion thereof, together with
such other information as the city manager may reasonably require to determine
whether the permit should be granted.
      2.   Agreement By Applicant To Perform Work In Proper Fashion: Each
application shall contain an agreement signed by the applicant, in which the
applicant agrees to perform the work, including all digging, tunneling,
backfilling and restoration of the surface in a good and professional manner
and in accordance with specifications established by the city manager, as well
as an agreement by the applicant to compensate the city for the cost of
restoring the pavement surface determined as provided in section
10-2-2 of this chapter. (2007 Code § 41-62)
   C.   Prerequisite To Issuance: No permit required by this section shall be
granted to any person unless such person shall have agreed to defend, indemnify
and hold the city harmless, and shall have provided a policy of insurance
satisfactory to the city manager insuring the city against any liability
arising out of the work. (2007 Code § 41-63)
   D.   Contents: Permits issued under this section shall show the work for
which the permit has been granted, the name of the person to whom the same is
issued, the location of the premises, the purpose of the excavation and the
time within which the work shall be commenced and completed. (2007 Code § 41-
64)
   E.   Council Approval Required For Issuance Of New Permits To Violators Of
Permit Conditions Or Section: Any person who shall fail to comply with the
terms and conditions of the permit issued pursuant to this section after
written notice from the city manager, or who shall violate the terms of this
section, shall not thereafter be granted another such permit without the prior
approval of the city manager. (2007 Code § 41-65)
10-2-2: RESTORATION OF SURFACE GENERALLY:
When a permittee under section
10-2-1 of this chapter has completed the excavation, including backfilling and
restoration to the approval of the city manager, the paving surface shall then
be restored by a contractor approved by the city manager or by the city as soon
as practicable at the permittee's cost. The cost of the restoration of the
pavement surface shall be determined by the city manager and shall include
field labor supervision, materials, use of equipment and inspection. (2007 Code
§ 41-46)
10-2-3: GUARDS OR PROTECTION REQUIRED:
No person shall, within the corporate limits of the city, leave or keep open or
allow to be open any excavation or vault, in, on or under any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place, and fail to guard or protect the same so that
persons passing, riding or driving near such excavation shall be endangered
thereby. (2007 Code § 41-48)
10-2-4: INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC:
Any work done under a permit provided for in section
10-2-1 of this chapter shall be performed in such a manner as to cause the
least possible interference with the movement of traffic. On main
thoroughfares, there shall be at all times sufficient traffic lanes open to
permit a substantially normal traffic flow; otherwise the work shall be
confined to the hours between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00)
P.M. or between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
In the event the work is of an emergency nature, the city manager may authorize
work during other hours under such conditions as the city manager shall
determine appropriate. (2007 Code § 41-49)
10-2-5: TIME PERIOD FOR COMMENCEMENT OF WORK:
The work shall be started within one week from the date of the issuance of the
permit required by section
10-2-1 of this chapter. (2007 Code § 41-50)
10-2-6: MANNER OF PERFORMING WORK:
   A.   Manner Of Work: Any work done under a permit required by section
10-2-1 of this chapter shall be done expeditiously and in a good and
professional manner and subject to the direction and supervision of the city
manager.
   B.   Policy For Excavation In City Rights Of Way: The city manager shall
develop, with the approval of the city council, a written excavation policy
which shall govern the request, review, work, and restoration of an excavation
in city rights of way. (Ord. 31-12, 5-7-2012)
10-2-7: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to city departments or to
persons performing work under a contract with the city but any such contract
shall require a substantial compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(2007 Code § 41-53)
CHAPTER 3
ENCROACHMENTS ON PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Intent And Purpose
10-3-2: Hold Harmless
10-3-3: Insurance
10-3-4: Revocation Of Permit
10-3-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The uncontrolled placement of architectural features, building
projections, grates, vaults, areaways, waste collection receptacles, newsracks
and other items in public places presents an inconvenience and danger to the
safety and welfare of persons using such public places including pedestrians,
persons entering and leaving vehicles and buildings, and persons performing
essential utility, traffic control and emergency services.
   B.   Such encroachments so located as to cause an undue inconvenience or
danger to persons using public places or which are unsightly in appearance are
hereby declared to be public nuisances.
   C.   The provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted are
in pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the safety and
general welfare of persons in the city and their use of public places. (2007
Code § 41-116)
10-3-2: HOLD HARMLESS:
As a condition of the issuance of a permit, the permit holder shall agree to
pay on behalf of the city all sums which the city shall be obligated to pay by
reason of any liability imposed upon the city for damages of any kind resulting
from the placement or maintenance of an encroachment, whether sustained by any
person or persons, caused by accident or otherwise, and to defend at its own
expense and on behalf of the city any claim against the city arising out of the
placement or maintenance of said encroachment on public property. (2007 Code §
41-117)
10-3-3: INSURANCE:
Prior to the issuance of a permit for an encroachment on public property, the
permit holder shall provide proof of insurance acceptable to the city manager.
(2007 Code § 41-118)
10-3-4: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Notice Of Revocation For Noncompliance: A permit granted under this
chapter shall be revocable upon ten (10) days' written notice by the city to
the permit holder at the convenience of the city. A permit also may be revoked
or not renewed for failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter or
any other applicable legal requirements, or for fraud, deceit, or
misrepresentation in connection with an application for a permit.
   B.   Specifying Reasons For Revocation: In the event of such revocation, the
city shall notify the permit holder in writing of such revocation or refusal of
renewal, specifying the reasons therein for such refusal.
   C.   Removal Of Encroachment: The permit holder, within thirty (30) days of
receipt of a written notice from the city manager to remove an encroachment on
public property, shall at the permit holder's expense remove such encroachment.
In the event of the permit holder's failure to do so, the city manager shall
remove the encroachment at the permit holder's expense and dispose of the same.
The permit holder shall agree in writing prior to the issuance of a permit to
make no claim against the city or its agents for damages resulting from the
removal of said encroachment.
   D.   Threat To Public Safety; Time Limit; City Removal: Nothing in this
section shall preclude the city manager from giving immediate notice to a
permit holder to remove an encroachment on public property in the event such
encroachment has been damaged or has been moved or otherwise placed to cause an
immediate threat to public safety. In the event the encroachment is not removed
within seven (7) days of such notification, the city manager shall remove such
encroachment as provided in subsection C of this section. (2007 Code § 41-119)
ARTICLE A. WASTE COLLECTION RECEPTACLES
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Definitions
10-3A-2: Permit Requirements; Fees
10-3A-3: Maintenance
10-3A-4: Exclusion
10-3A-5: Exception
10-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, when used in this article, shall have the following
meanings:
PUBLIC PLACES: Public grounds, streets, sidewalks, alleys, bridges, culverts,
overpasses, underpasses, grade crossing separations and approaches, public
ways, squares and commons.
WASTE: Garbage, refuse including waste incidental to food preparation,
wastepaper, boxes, construction materials, manufacturing materials, market
waste, garden waste, trees, tree limbs, leaves and any and all other similar
materials. (2007 Code § 41-121)
10-3A-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation shall place and/or
maintain any waste collection receptacle on or in any public place without
first obtaining a permit therefor, providing acceptable proof of liability
insurance and paying the permit fee, all as provided in this section. (2007
Code § 41-122)
   B.   Application For Permit: An application for permit shall be filed with
the city manager on a form to be provided by the city manager. Such application
for a permit shall be filed with the city manager not less than seven (7) days
prior to the date the waste collection receptacle is to be so located. (2007
Code § 41-123)
   C.   Permit Fees:
      1.   The applicant shall pay a permit fee established by the city manager
to the city for each waste collection receptacle at the time of the filing of
an application for each receptacle.
      2.   A permit holder shall pay an annual renewal permit fee established
by the city manager to the city for each waste collection receptacle in place
as of July 1 of that year.
      3.   Permits issued pursuant to subsections C1 and C2 of this section
shall be valid only for the calendar year in which issued and shall not be
transferable from one location to another location except to a location with
the same post office address.
      4.   The city manager shall establish a permit fee for a temporary waste
collection receptacle to be placed in a public place.
      5.   Permit fees are nonrefundable and are not subject to proration.
      6.   The permit and authority granted by the issuance of a permit is for
the sole benefit of the permit holder and is not transferable to any other
person without the prior written consent of the city manager. (2007 Code § 41-
124)
10-3A-3: MAINTENANCE:
Each waste collection receptacle for which a permit is issued shall be:
   A.   Maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times;
   B.   Kept painted and clearly identified in bold lettering as property of
the permit holder;
   C.   Maintained in a good state of repair; and
   D.   Constructed and be of such materials as to meet all state and federal
regulations governing the manufacturing of receptacles for the collection of
waste. (2007 Code § 41-125)
10-3A-4: EXCLUSION:
The permit holder, by acceptance of a permit, covenants and agrees that the
revocable permit granted does not constitute approval of the design,
construction, repair or maintenance of any waste collection receptacle and said
permit holder hereby covenants and agrees not to assert such claim or defense
against the city in the event of a claim asserted for death, personal injuries
and/or property damage against the permit holder arising out of or in any way
connected with the design, construction, repair or maintenance of waste
collection receptacles for which a permit is issued. (2007 Code § 41-128)
10-3A-5: EXCEPTION:
Privately owned waste collection receptacles placed in a public place to
facilitate solid waste collection by the city pursuant to title 13, chapter 6,
article A of this code are exempt from the provisions of this article. (2007
Code § 41-130)
ARTICLE B. NEWSRACKS
SECTION:
10-3B-1: Definitions
10-3B-2: Location And Size
10-3B-3: Standards
10-3B-4: Identification
10-3B-5: Violations
10-3B-6: Abandonment
10-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms when used in this article shall have the following
meanings:
DISTRIBUTOR: The person responsible for placing and maintaining a newsrack in a
public place.
NEWSRACK: Any self-service or coin operated box, container, storage unit or
other dispenser installed, used or maintained for the display and sale of
newspapers or other news periodicals. This definition shall not include a
portable platform or stand used by a person to distribute printed materials on
a temporary basis, which is removed from the public place when not in use, so
long as its use conforms to the location restrictions contained in this
article.
PUBLIC PLACE OR PLACES: Public grounds, streets, sidewalks, alleys, bridges,
culverts, overpasses, underpasses, grade crossing separations and approaches,
public ways, squares and commons. (2007 Code § 41-141)
10-3B-2: LOCATION AND SIZE:
   A.   Endangering Public Safety: No person shall locate a newsrack where it
would endanger the safety of persons or property, obstructs the vision of
motorists or unreasonably interferes with or impedes the flow of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic or the ingress into and egress from any building.
   B.   Prohibited Places: No newsrack shall be located:
      1.   Within six feet (6') of any fire hydrant or other emergency
facility;
      2.   Where it projects beyond any curb line onto the roadway;
      3.   Within three feet (3') of any marked crosswalk;
      4.   Within three feet (3') of the curb return at an intersection;
      5.   Within three feet (3') of any curb return on any driveway;
      6.   Where it unreasonably interferes with access to a bus shelter or a
bus bench;
      7.   Where it unreasonably interferes with loading or unloading at the
front or rear door of buses;
      8.   Within two feet (2') of any disabled ramp or landing;
      9.   In such a manner as to reduce the clear space for the passageway of
pedestrians to less than four feet (4'); and
      10.   On any planted public place improved with lawn, flowers, shrubs, or
other landscaping.
   C.   Size: No newsrack shall exceed five feet (5') in height, thirty inches
(30") in width or two feet (2') in depth. (2007 Code § 41-142)
10-3B-3: STANDARDS:
   A.   Advertising Limitations: No newsrack shall be used for advertising or
publicity purposes other than dealing with the display, sale, or purchase of a
newspaper or news periodical sold therein.
   B.   Coin Return Mechanism: Each newsrack, except those newsracks dispensing
publications without charge, shall be equipped with a coin return mechanism to
permit a person using the machine to secure an immediate refund in the event
such person is unable to receive the publication paid for. The coin return
mechanism shall be maintained in good working order.
   C.   Notice Of Owner And Telephone Number: Each newsrack shall have affixed
to it, in a readily visible place, a notice setting forth the name and address
of the distributor and the telephone number of a working telephone service to
call or report a malfunction or to secure a refund in the event of a
malfunction of the coin return mechanism.
   D.   Maintenance In Clean Condition: Each newsrack shall be maintained in a
neat and clean condition and in a good state of repair. (2007 Code § 41-143)
10-3B-4: IDENTIFICATION:
Any person who places or maintains a newsrack in a public place or places shall
inform the city manager, in writing, where it has located a newsrack within
seven (7) business days after placing the newsrack in a public place. (2007
Code § 41-144)
10-3B-5: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Upon determination by the city manager that a newsrack has been
installed, used, or maintained in violation of the provisions of this article,
the city manager shall issue a written order to correct the offending condition
to the owner of the newsrack. The order shall specifically describe the
offending conditions.
   B.   Failure by the owner to properly correct the offending condition within
seven (7) calendar days after the mailing date of the order shall result in the
newsrack being summarily removed by the city manager. (2007 Code § 41-146)
10-3B-6: ABANDONMENT:
In the event a newsrack remains empty for a period of ten (10) continuous days,
the newsrack is deemed abandoned and may be summarily removed. (2007 Code § 41-
148)
ARTICLE C. PROJECTING SIGNS
SECTION:
10-3C-1: Definitions
10-3C-2: Permit Requirements; Fees
10-3C-3: Compliance With Zoning Ordinance
10-3C-4: Compliance With Historic Preservation Regulations
10-3C-5: Maintenance
10-3C-6: Exclusion
10-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms when used in this article shall have the following
meanings:
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign which projects from and is supported by a wall of a
building or a structure, and which extends over a public place.
PROJECTION: The distance by which a projecting sign extends over a public
place.
PUBLIC PLACE OR PLACES: Public grounds, streets, sidewalks, alleys, bridges,
culverts, overpasses, underpasses, grade crossing separations and approaches,
public ways, squares and commons. (2007 Code § 41-149)
10-3C-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation shall place and/or
maintain any projecting sign without first obtaining a permit therefor,
complying with all applicable local, state and federal regulations, providing
acceptable proof of liability insurance and paying the permit fee, all as
provided in this article and in title 14, chapter 10 of this code. (2007 Code §
41-150)
   B.   Application For Permit: Any application for a permit for a projecting
sign shall be filed with the city manager on a form provided by the city
manager not less than seven (7) days prior to the date the projecting sign is
to be installed. (2007 Code § 41-151)
   C.   Permit Fees: The applicant shall pay the permit fee established by the
city manager to the city for each projecting sign at the time of the filing of
an application for each projecting sign. (2007 Code § 41-152)
10-3C-3: COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING ORDINANCE:
   A.   Compliance Required For Permit Issuance: The city manager shall not
issue a permit for any projecting sign which does not comply with the sign
regulations set forth in the zoning ordinance as to projection, size, number
and other zoning restrictions.
   B.   Variance: If the zoning board of adjustment has granted a variance from
the sign regulations set forth in the zoning ordinance for a projecting sign,
the sign shall be deemed to be in compliance with the zoning ordinance.
   C.   Exceeding Allowable Projection: If the projection for a sign exceeds
the allowable projection set forth in the zoning ordinance, the city manager
shall make a recommendation to the city council. The city manager shall not
issue a permit for the sign unless it is approved by the city council. (2007
Code § 41-153)
10-3C-4: COMPLIANCE WITH HISTORIC PRESERVATION REGULATIONS:
The city manager shall not issue a permit for any projecting sign which does
not comply with the regulations set forth in title 14, chapter 6 of this code.
(2007 Code § 41-154)
10-3C-5: MAINTENANCE:
The permit holder for each projecting sign for which a permit is issued shall:
   A.   Maintain the sign in a good state of repair; and
   B.   Construct the sign of such materials as to meet all local, state and
federal regulations governing the construction and installation of signs. (2007
Code § 41-155)
10-3C-6: EXCLUSION:
The permit holder shall agree in writing prior to the issuance of a permit to
the following:
   A.   The permit holder, by acceptance of a permit, covenants and agrees that
the revocable permit granted does not constitute approval of the design,
construction, repair or maintenance of any projecting sign.
   B.   The permit holder, by acceptance of a permit, covenants and agrees not
to assert a claim or defense against the city in the event of any claim
asserted for death, personal injuries and/or property damage against the permit
holder arising out of or in any way connected with the design, construction,
repair or maintenance of projecting sign or signs for which a permit is issued.
(2007 Code § 41-158)
ARTICLE D. OTHER ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
10-3D-1: Definition
10-3D-2: Permit Requirements; Fees
10-3D-3: Compliance With Historic Preservation Regulations
10-3D-4: Maintenance
10-3D-5: Covenant Of Permit Holder
10-3D-1: DEFINITION:
The term "public place or places" shall mean public grounds, streets,
sidewalks, alleys, bridges, culverts, overpasses, underpasses, grade crossing
separations and approaches, public ways, squares and commons. (2007 Code § 41-
160)
10-3D-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation shall place and/or
maintain any encroachment not otherwise provided for in this article in a
public place without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city manager
and complying with all applicable local, state and federal regulations.
   B.   Application For Permit: Any application for a permit under this article
shall be filed with the city manager on a form provided by the city manager.
   C.   Permit Fees: The applicant shall pay the permit fee as established by
the city manager for an encroachment at the time of the filing of an
application. (Ord. 73-15, 12-7-2015)
10-3D-3: COMPLIANCE WITH HISTORIC PRESERVATION REGULATIONS:
The city manager shall not issue a permit for any encroachment which does not
comply with the regulations set forth in title 16, chapter 10 of this code.
(Ord. 1-16, 3-7-2016)
10-3D-4: MAINTENANCE:
The permit holder for any encroachment for which a permit is issued shall:
   A.   Maintain the encroachment in a good state of repair; and
   B.   Construct the encroachment of such materials as to meet all local,
state and federal regulations. (2007 Code § 41-165)
10-3D-5: COVENANT OF PERMIT HOLDER:
The permit holder shall agree in writing prior to the issuance of a permit to
the following:
   A.   The permit holder, by acceptance of a permit, covenants and agrees that
the revocable permit granted does not constitute approval of the design,
construction, repair or maintenance of any encroachment.
   B.   The permit holder, by acceptance of a permit, covenants and agrees not
to assert a claim or defense against the city in the event of claim asserted
for death, personal injuries and/or property damage against the permit holder
arising out of or in any way connected with the design, construction, repair or
maintenance of the encroachment for which a permit is issued. (2007 Code § 41-
168)
ARTICLE E. SIDEWALK CAFES
SECTION:
10-3E-1: Definition
10-3E-2: Authorization
10-3E-3: Permit Requirements; Fee
10-3E-4: Designated Area
10-3E-5: Days And Hours Of Operation
10-3E-6: Sound Equipment
10-3E-7: Operation
10-3E-1: DEFINITION:
"Sidewalk cafe" shall mean a group of tables, chairs, barriers or partitions,
and trash containers maintained upon part of the public right of way next to a
storefront used by an establishment with a valid food and drink permit for the
sale to the public of food, refreshments and/or beverages of all kinds. (Ord.
42-15, 7-6-2015; amd. Ord. 6-20, 2-4-2020)
10-3E-2: AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   A sidewalk cafe in the public right of way may be operated only as set
forth in this article. (2007 Code § 41-180)
   B.   A sidewalk cafe in the public right of way shall be permitted where
sidewalk cafes are allowed, provided that restaurants are listed as a permitted
or accessory use in the zoning district where they are located. (Ord. 42-15, 7-
6-2015)
   C.   The sidewalk cafe area must be contiguous with a side of a building
wherein a restaurant, retail business, and/or food service establishment is
located.
   D.   Only restaurants or retail businesses where more than fifty percent
(50%) of the business conducted on the premises is the sale or dispensing of
food, drink, or retail items may request permission to operate a sidewalk cafe.
The phrase "business conducted on the premises" shall mean the total business
revenue generated on the premises during the previous calendar year. (2007 Code
§ 41-180; amd. Ord. 6-20, 2-4-2020)
10-3E-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required; Application; Fee: No establishment owner shall operate
a sidewalk cafe in the public right of way without a permit therefor. The
restaurant owner shall file an application with the city manager on a form
provided by the city manager. The owner shall agree to abide by all state and
local laws governing use of the public right of way. The application for a new
permit shall include the location of all trees, poles, benches, grating and
other amenities or obstructions in the right of way, and the location of any
proposed furniture or equipment. The application shall be accompanied by a
photograph or detailed renderings of the sidewalk cafe area and all proposed
tables, chairs, barriers or other furniture or equipment. The applicant shall
pay a fee established by the city manager. The permit shall be for one 12-month
period from the date of issuance of the permit.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit; Notice; Causes: The city manager may revoke a
sidewalk cafe permit upon written notice to the restaurant owner for a
violation of the conditions of the permit and after a reasonable opportunity
for the restaurant owner to remedy the violation has expired. Grounds for
termination of the permit include, but are not limited to: 1) a violation of
state liquor control laws; 2) a violation of this code including this article;
or 3) the creation of a safety hazard, health hazard or public nuisance. The
city manager may also terminate the permit if the city manager determines there
is a substantial and reasonable need for use of the public right of way where
the sidewalk cafe area is located for a valid public purpose.
   C.   Certificate Of Insurance: The restaurant owner shall provide a
certificate of insurance with coverage satisfactory to the city manager and
shall agree to hold the city, its officers and employees harmless from and
against any and all claims of any kind arising out of the use of the public
right of way. (2007 Code § 41-181; amd. Ord. 6-20, 2-4-2020)
10-3E-4: DESIGNATED AREA:
   A.   Allowing For Pedestrian Use: A sidewalk cafe area shall not extend onto
the sidewalk in a manner that will not allow a minimum of four feet (4') of
unobstructed sidewalk adjacent to the street for pedestrian use. (Ord. 43-05,
6-20-2005)
   B.   Obstructing Street Corners: No tables and chairs shall be placed in
street corner areas defined by building lines extended to the street, and no
closer than ten feet (10') from a disabled ramp.
   C.   Delineation By Ropes: The sidewalk cafe area shall be delineated by
ropes or some other temporary, suitable method which shall be clearly visible
to pedestrians. Such temporary delineation and all tables, chairs and other
items shall be removed at the end of each day's operation of the sidewalk cafe
area, and the sidewalk cafe area shall be restored to its normal condition as a
pedestrianway. No materials shall be stored on the public right of way. (2007
Code § 41-182)
   D.   Tables And Chairs Secured: Any table, chairs, and other items that are
used outdoors shall be secured within the sidewalk cafe area at the end of each
day's operation of the sidewalk cafe area so that they are unusable and do not
block or obstruct emergency exits from any building. (Ord. 43-05, 6-20-2005)
   E.   Public Amenities Prohibited: A sidewalk cafe area may not include any
public amenities such as benches, seats, tables or trash receptacles. (2007
Code § 41-182)
10-3E-5: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   A sidewalk cafe may be operated any time of the year.
   B.   A sidewalk cafe shall be set up and operated each day only between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday through
Thursday and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
Friday and Saturday. The sidewalk cafe area shall be restored to and maintained
as a normal pedestrianway at all other times.
   C.   Food and beverages shall be available for service to patrons in a
sidewalk cafe area during all hours of operation of the sidewalk cafe. Sidewalk
cafes shall not operate when the restaurant kitchen is closed. (2007 Code § 41-
183)
10-3E-6: SOUND EQUIPMENT:
Amplified sound equipment shall not be permitted in a sidewalk cafe area. (2007
Code § 41-184)
10-3E-7: OPERATION:
   A.   Right To Limit Number Of Cafe Areas: The city manager shall have the
right in the city manager's discretion to limit the number of sidewalk cafe
areas.
   B.   Advertising: Advertising shall not be permitted in the sidewalk cafe
area except for the name of the establishment, which may be placed on chairs,
tables, umbrellas or other amenities, as approved by the city manager. The
amenities used in the sidewalk cafe area shall at all times be maintained in
good condition.
   C.   Blocking Building Entrances Or Exits: No building entrances or exits
shall be blocked in a sidewalk cafe area. (2007 Code § 41-185)
   D.   Obstructing Pedestrian Right Of Way: The operation of the sidewalk cafe
shall not obstruct the pedestrian right of way adjacent to the sidewalk cafe
area. No sidewalk cafe furniture or barricade shall be placed closer than four
feet (4') to a street, light pole, meter pole or other infrastructure so as to
create an unobstructed route of less than four feet (4') in width. The sidewalk
cafe shall be enclosed by a barricade not less than thirty inches (30") high
and not more than forty inches (40") high. A sidewalk cafe shall remain within
the approved boundaries of the sidewalk cafe area as shown on the restaurant
owner's application.
   E.   Restroom Capacity: The city manager may require additional restroom
capacity for a restaurant with a sidewalk cafe to comply with building and
housing requirements in this code.
   F.   Occupancy Limits: Occupancy limits for a sidewalk cafe area shall be
determined as set forth in criteria for outdoor service of alcoholic beverages
on public rights of way.
   G.   Parking: The establishment owner shall not be required to provide
additional parking for the operation of a sidewalk cafe.
   H.   Inspection: A sidewalk cafe area shall be subject to inspection at any
time in the discretion of the city manager.
   I.   Serving Food And Alcoholic Beverages; Employee To Monitor: A sidewalk
cafe serving food or alcoholic beverages shall have an employee monitoring the
area at all times when alcohol is being consumed. Service of food or alcohol
beverages in a sidewalk cafe area shall be limited to persons seated at tables
in the sidewalk cafe area.
   J.   Trash And Litter Removal: The restaurant owner shall be responsible for
trash removal and shall maintain the area and the area within five feet (5') of
the sidewalk cafe area in a clean and litter free manner during all hours of
operation. The restaurant owner shall restore the area and the area within five
feet (5') of the sidewalk cafe area to its normal condition as a pedestrianway,
free of litter after operation of the sidewalk cafe each day.
   K.   Port Of Dubuque PUD: No permit shall be issued for a sidewalk cafe area
in the Port Of Dubuque PUD district unless such area complies with the Ice
Harbor urban renewal district design standards.
   L.   Access To Utilities: The establishment owner shall not in any way
interfere with access to public or city utilities located and/or operated
within the public right of way.
   M.   Conformance With Federal, State And Local Laws: The operation of a
sidewalk cafe shall conform to all applicable federal, state, and local laws
and regulations. (2007 Code § 41-185; amd. Ord. 43-05, 6-20-2005; Ord. 6-20, 2-
4-2020)
ARTICLE F. MAILBOXES
SECTION:
10-3F-1: General
10-3F-2: Permit
10-3F-3: Placement And Design
10-3F-4: Nuisance
10-3F-1: GENERAL:
Subject to the requirements of this article, curbside delivery by United States
postal service may be provided to boxes at the curb so they may be safely and
conveniently served by the carrier from the carrier's vehicle. (Ord. 57-09, 11-
16-2009)
10-3F-2: PERMIT:
No person, firm or corporation shall place a mailbox in the public right of way
without a permit therefor from the city manager. (Ord. 57-09, 11-16-2009)
10-3F-3: PLACEMENT AND DESIGN:
No person, firm or corporation shall place a mailbox in the public right of way
unless such mailbox complies with the classifications, placements, models,
manufacturers, and breakaway construction specifications in the United States
postal services standards and "Postal Operations Manual" or "American
Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials", on file in the
office of the city engineer. (Ord. 57-09, 11-16-2009)
10-3F-4: NUISANCE:
A mailbox placed in the public right of way which does not meet the
requirements of this article is hereby declared a public nuisance. Upon written
notice from the city manager, the property owner shall remove a mailbox placed
in the public right of way which does not meet the requirements of this
article, and if a property owner fails to remove such mailbox, the city manager
shall cause the mailbox to be removed at the property owner's expense. (Ord.
57-09, 11-16-2009)
CHAPTER 4
PARADES, ASSEMBLIES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Definitions
10-4-2: Assemblies
10-4-3: Parades And Special Events
10-4-4: Private Property
10-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter shall, for the
purpose of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section:
BUSINESS DAY: Those days in which municipal offices are open for conducting
city business. "Business day" does not include Saturday, Sunday or the holidays
listed in section
1-3-1 of this code.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager or the city manager's designee.
ON DUTY: Any city employee, including a police officer, who is scheduled to
work on a specific day or shift as part of the employee's normal working hours.
A city employee is not "on duty" if the employee was not normally scheduled to
work on that specific day or shift as part of the employee's normal working
hours, but was called in or scheduled to work on that specific day or shift due
to the demand for additional city personnel or resources.
ORGANIZATION: Includes any voluntary association entered into for the purpose
of organizing a parade, public assembly or special event.
PARADE: Any march, procession or other similar activity consisting of persons,
animals, vehicles or things, or any combination thereof, upon any public
street, sidewalk, alley or other public place, which requires a street closing
or otherwise requires authorized city employees to stop or reroute vehicular
traffic because the parade will not or cannot comply with normal and usual
traffic regulations or controls.
PARADE ORGANIZER: The person listed on the permit application who is designated
as the responsible planner and on site manager for the parade.
PARADE UNIT OR UNIT: One vehicle, one float or one marching group.
PERSON: Has the same meaning ascribed to that term in section
1-3-1 of this code.
PUBLIC ASSEMBLY: A company of persons collected together in one place on the
sidewalk, or any organized march or procession of persons upon the sidewalk,
which is reasonably anticipated to interfere with or impede the flow of
pedestrian traffic, but will not: a) obstruct the normal flow of vehicular
traffic; or b) require a street closing or otherwise require police officers to
stop or reroute vehicular traffic because the persons will not or cannot comply
with normal and usual traffic regulations or controls.
PUBLIC ASSEMBLY ORGANIZER: The person who is designated on the notice sent to
the city manager as the responsible planner or on site manager for the public
assembly. "Public assembly organizer" includes a person who, even absent a
formal designation, acts as the responsible planner or on site manager for the
public assembly.
SPECIAL EVENT: A planned temporary aggregation of attractions, including public
entertainment, food and beverage service facilities, sales of souvenirs or
other merchandise, or similar attractions that is: a) conducted on the public
way; or b) conducted primarily outdoors on property open to the public other
than the public way, and:
   A.   Includes activities that require the issuance of a city temporary food
establishment license or a special event liquor license; or
   B.   Requires special city services, including, but not limited to, any of
the following: street closures; provisions of barricades, garbage cans, stages
or special no parking signs; special electrical services; or special police
protection.
SPONSOR OF THE EVENT: The entity who is conducting the special event or in
whose name or for whose support the proposed special event will be presented.
(Ord. 35-14, 5-19-2014)
10-4-2: ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Any person or organization planning to lead or initiate any type of
public assembly, including a march or procession, upon a public sidewalk, is
encouraged to notify the city manager, on a form prescribed by the city
manager, at least five (5) business days in advance, or as soon as practicable
if the event is of a spontaneous or urgent nature, and is encouraged to inform
the city manager of the date, time, location, route and estimated number of
persons participating so that the city can make any preparations necessary to
provide personnel or other city services to minimize the obstruction to
pedestrian and other traffic and to otherwise protect the participants and the
public.
   B.   Such public assemblies are allowed unless the city manager notifies, in
writing by personal delivery, regular mail, fax or e-mail the person or
organization giving the notice, within two (2) business days after receipt of
notice of the public assembly, or as soon as practicable before the scheduled
event, that there would be a direct interference with a previously planned
permitted activity or public assembly, or that there is a significant public
safety issue. If the city manager issues such a notice, the city manager must
state the reasons in writing and give an alternate date, time, location or
route. This alternate, to the extent practicable, authorizes a public assembly
that will have comparable public visibility and a similar route, location and
date to that of the proposed public assembly. An applicant desiring to accept
the alternate public assembly must, within five (5) business days after notice
of the action by the city manager, file a written notice of acceptance with the
city manager.
   C.   The decision by the city manager is deemed a final decision subject to
judicial review in accordance with applicable law.
   D.   In order to protect the health and safety of the public, if at any time
during the occurrence of the public assembly, the public assembly is
substantially interfering with pedestrian traffic, safe ingress to or egress
from buildings, or access by emergency responders in the area contiguous to the
activity, members of the police department are authorized to establish a
pedestrian pathway on the sidewalk for the purpose of pedestrian traffic,
ingress to or egress from surrounding buildings, and access for emergency
responders provided that the pedestrian pathway is reasonable in size and
allows use of the remaining sidewalk by the participants in the public
assembly. After that portion of the sidewalk has been established as a
pedestrian pathway and communicated to the participants, the participants shall
not obstruct pedestrian traffic, ingress to or egress from the surrounding
buildings, or access by emergency responders in the pedestrian pathway.
   E.   In order to minimize the interference with vehicular traffic and to
otherwise protect the participants and the public, in those cases where the
attendance at the public assembly exceeds the anticipated levels and causes the
public assembly to interfere with vehicular traffic or requires a street
closing or otherwise requires authorized city employees to stop or reroute
vehicular traffic because the public assembly will not be able to comply with
usual traffic regulations or controls, members of the police department are
authorized to make reasonable accommodations to increase the portion of the
public way available to the public assembly. After that portion of the public
way available to the participants is identified and communicated to the
participants, the participants shall not use any other portion of the public
way outside the boundaries identified by the police.
   F.   Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed as waiving the requirement
for a parade or special event permit pursuant to section
10-4-3 of this chapter, if required.
   G.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly interfere with any person or
organization lawfully conducting a public assembly. (Ord. 35-14, 5-19-2014)
10-4-3: PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Before any group collects or gathers together upon
city property or the public right of way for parades or special events, the
group must first obtain a permit from the city manager, and must state the
time, manner and location of such parade or special event. The city manager
will consider an application for a parade or special event which is filed less
than sixty (60) business days before the proposed event, where the purpose of
such event is a spontaneous response to a current event, or where other good
and compelling causes are shown.
   B.   Permit Fee: A permit fee and refundable deposit will be collected.
   C.   Permit Application:
      1.   Filing Of Application: An application for a permit containing the
information required herein must be filed with the city manager by any group
desiring to use any city property or public rights of way as provided in this
section. Applications must be made on forms prepared by the city manager, and
must contain the information required herein. The city manager will have a
reasonable time to grant or deny the permit. The length of time that is
reasonable is determined by the location and size of the parade or special
event, the information supplied, the time of filing of the application, and the
extent of advance preparation or planning demonstrated and reasonably required.
      2.   Grant Or Denial Of Permit: The city manager must grant or deny the
permit, in writing, according to the standards set forth in subsection E of
this section and must provide the written decision to the applicant by regular
mail or by personal delivery.
   D.   Application Form; Information Required:
      1.   Contents Of Application: The application form for the use of any
city property or public right of way must contain the following information:
         a.   Name and address of the applicant and the sponsoring
organization, if any.
         b.   A description of the event that is planned.
         c.   Proposed location or locations.
         d.   Expected size of group.
         e.   Date, time and expected length of the use.
         f.   Names and addresses of the person or persons to be in charge of
the proposed use at the specified location.
         g.   Names and addresses of any persons to be featured as entertainers
or speakers.
         h.   List of mechanical or electronic equipment to be used.
         i.   Number and type of any motor vehicles or other forms of
transportation to be used, including bicycles.
         j.   Number and type of any animals to be used.
         k.   A description of any sound amplification to be used.
         l.   Proposed monitoring of the group, including the number of people
who will set up and clean up.
         m.   Plan for compliance with the Americans with disabilities act and
Americans with disabilities act accessibility guidelines (ADAAG).
         n.   Other information as the city manager believes necessary to
ensure public access and safety.
      2.   Hold Harmless Agreement: The application must include an agreement
pursuant to which the applicant agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless
the city and its agents, officers and employees, from any and all claims,
lawsuits, damages, losses and expenses, of whatever nature, which may result
from or arise from the parade or special event covered by the permit,
irrespective of whether said claims are frivolous or meritorious.
   E.   Standards For Issuance: The city manager must examine the application,
and must grant or deny said permit based upon the following standards:
      1.   Interference With Privacy, Safety And Security: In light of the date
and time of said proposed use, whether the use will unreasonably interfere with
the privacy, safety, security, convenience and tranquility of the residents or
inhabitants of the area.
      2.   Size And Condition Of Accommodations: Whether the proposed city
property or public right of way can accommodate the group or use, based both on
group size and on health and sanitation facilities, whether available or to be
provided by applicant.
      3.   Compatibility Of Use: Whether the proposed gathering is compatible
with the normal activity of the city property or public right of way at the
requested time or date.
      4.   Demonstration Of Means, Planning And Coordination: Whether the
application demonstrates the applicant has the means, planning and coordination
to hold the special event, considering the time of day, location, public
facilities available, traffic control, parking requirements and any monitoring
required to protect the public health and safety.
      5.   Timing Of Event: Whether the event will interfere with another event
for which a permit has already been granted. All applications for any parade or
special event permit will be processed on a first in time basis based on a full
and complete submission of necessary information and documentation.
      6.   Interruption Of Vehicular Or Pedestrian Traffic: Whether the
proposed use would substantially interrupt the flow of street and/or pedestrian
traffic.
      7.   Excessive Diversion Of Police: Whether the use would require the
excessive diversion of police from other duties, or substantially interfere
with the city's firefighting operations.
   F.   Revocation Of Permit: After a permit is granted, in the event it is
determined that the applicant has misstated any material fact in the
application, or that there is a substantial and material variance between the
information in the application and the actual facts or those facts that appear
reasonably to have occurred, the city manager may review such application and
revoke such permit if not in compliance with this subsection. Such permit may
also be revoked when it is determined by the chief of police that by reason of
disaster, public calamity, riot or other emergency, the public safety requires
such revocation.
   G.   Waiver: The city manager is authorized to waive certain requirements
based on criteria approved in the parades and special events permit waiver
policy.
   H.   Interference: It is unlawful for any person to knowingly interfere with
any person or organization lawfully conducting a parade. (Ord. 35-14, 5-19-
2014)
10-4-4: PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Events On Private Property; Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: Ordinarily a permit is not required for events on
private property. However, a permit stating the time, manner and location of
such event will be required when the event sponsor knows or reasonably should
know that the event will substantially affect public health or safety or the
peace and quiet of a neighborhood by reason of the number of persons attending
such event, the use of outdoor music or amplified noise, and the likely effect
on traffic and parking, and:
         a.   A fee is charged to attendees; or
         b.   The property possesses a zoning classification other than
residential and the event is outside of the original intent or purpose of the
property or facility on the property.
      2.   Permit Fee: A permit fee will be collected based on whether the
event is open to the public.
      3.   Permit Application:
         a.   Filing Of Application; Contents: An application for a permit
containing the information required herein must be filed with the city manager
by a person holding such an event. Applications must be made on forms prepared
by the city manager, and must contain the information required herein. The city
manager must have a reasonable time to grant or deny the permit. The length of
time that is reasonable must be determined by the size of the event, the
information supplied, the time of filing of the application, and the extent of
advance preparation or planning demonstrated and reasonably required.
         b.   Grant Or Denial Of Permit: The city manager must grant or deny
the permit, in writing, according to the standards set forth in subsection A5
of this section and must provide the written decision to the applicant by
regular mail or personal delivery.
      4.   Application Form; Information Required: The application form for the
event must contain the following information:
         a.   Name and address of the applicant and the sponsoring
organization, if any.
         b.   A description of the event that is planned.
         c.   Proposed location or locations.
         d.   Expected size of group.
         e.   Date, time and expected length of use.
         f.   Names and addresses of the person or persons to be in charge of
the proposed use at the specified location.
         g.   List of mechanical or electronic equipment to be used.
         h.   Number and type of any motor vehicles or other forms of
transportation to be used, including bicycles.
         i.   A description of any sound amplification to be used.
      5.   Standards For Issuance: The city manager must examine the
application and must grant or deny said permit based upon the following
standards:
         a.   Interference With Privacy, Safety, And Security: In light of the
date and time of said proposed use, whether the use will unreasonably interfere
with the privacy, safety, security, convenience and tranquility of the
residents or inhabitants of the area.
         b.   Compatibility Of Use: Whether the proposed use or activity is
compatible with the normal activity of the neighborhood at the requested time
and date.
         c.   Demonstration Of Means, Planning And Coordination: Whether the
application demonstrates the applicant has the means, planning and coordination
to hold the proposed event, considering the time of day, location, traffic
control, parking requirements and any monitoring required to protect the public
health and safety.
         d.   Timing Of Event: Whether the event will interfere with another
event for which a permit has already been granted.
         e.   Interruption Of Vehicular And Pedestrian Traffic: Whether the
proposed use would substantially interrupt the flow of street and/or pedestrian
traffic.
         f.   Excessive Diversion Of Police: Whether the use would require the
excessive diversion of police from other duties or substantially interfere with
the city's firefighting operations.
      6.   Revocation Of Permit: After a permit is granted, in the event it is
determined that the applicant has misstated any material fact in the
application, or that there is a substantial and material variance between the
information in the application and the actual facts or those facts that appear
reasonably to have occurred, the city manager may review such application and
revoke such permit if not in compliance with this chapter. Such permit may also
be revoked when it is determined by the chief of police that by reason of
disaster, public calamity, riot or other emergency, the public safety requires
such revocation. (Ord. 35-14, 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS AND RECREATION
ARTICLE A. ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Reserved
10-5A-2: Park And Recreation Advisory Commission
10-5A-1: RESERVED:
(Ord. 38-15, 7-6-2015)
10-5A-2: PARK AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Created: There is hereby created the Park and Recreation
Advisory Commission.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the commission is to advise on the general
beautification and maintenance of the City, parks, trails and open spaces and
facilities, advise and recommend the provision of facilities for active and
passive parks and recreation and advise and recommend year-round opportunities
for organized, inclusive recreation activities for all residents.
   C.   Internal Organization And Rules: The commission may adopt rules and
regulations to govern its organizational procedures as may be necessary and
which are not in conflict with this Code or the Iowa Code.
   D.   Procedures For Operation: All administrative, personnel, accounting,
budgetary, and procurement policies of the City govern the commission in all
its operations.
   E.   Membership: The commission comprises seven (7) residents of the City,
appointed by the City Council.
   F.   Oath: Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an
oath of office at the first meeting of the commission following the appointment
or at the City Clerk's Office any time prior to the first meeting of the
commission.
   G.   Terms: The term of office for Commissioners is three (3) years or until
such Commissioner's successor is appointed and qualified.
   H.   Vacancies: Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original
appointments.
   I.   Officers/Organization: The Commissioners must choose annually a
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson, each to serve a term of one year. The
Chairperson must appoint a Secretary, who need not be a member of the
commission. The Commissioners must fill a vacancy among its officers for the
remainder of the officer's unexpired term.
   J.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The commission must meet not less than bi-monthly.
      2.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson
or at the written request of a majority of the Commissioners.
      3.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance
with the Iowa Open Meetings Law.
      4.   Attendance:
         a.   In the event a Commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
Chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the City Council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
         b.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
      5.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings
of the commission must be filed with the City Council within ten (10) working
days after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled City
Council meeting, whichever is later.
      6.   Quorum: Four (4) Commissioners constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the
Commissioners present and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or
resolution.
   K.   Compensation: Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that
they may receive reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on
official commission business within the limits established in the City
administrative policies and budget.
   L.   Removal: Except as provided in subsection J4a of this section, the City
Council may remove any Commissioner for good cause.
   M.   Powers: The commission has the following powers, duties, and
responsibilities:
      1.   Provide the City Council with recommendations that further the
general and specific purposes of the commission.
      2.   Recommend the annual operating budgets and ongoing capital
improvements budgets.
      3.   Recommend establishment of or changes to fees, user fees, or rental
fees.
      4.   Recommend issuance of permits, rental or special use agreements for
public use of all park and recreation facilities for activities outside of the
special events permit process.
      5.   Recommend development of community partnerships, agreements, leases
and/or plans specific to the department.
      6.   Recommend the establishment of policies, rules and regulations or
ordinance changes governing the use of all grounds and facilities that have
been or may be set aside as public parks, trails, open spaces, playgrounds, and
other such park and recreation facilities. Such recommendations include but are
not limited to opening and closing hours for the use of all park and recreation
facilities by the general public.
      7.   Recommend the establishment of general rules and regulations for all
park and recreational programs provided by the City, including fees for league
participation, facility usage and rentals by the public.
      8.   Recommend agreements, leases and other methods to cooperate with the
Dubuque Community School District, Holy Family school system, non-profits and
other groups interested in the promotion and implementation of recreational
activities which are in the best interest of the City.
      9.   Recommend conceptual and/or final park and recreational area related
development plans.
   N.   Solicitation And Acceptance Of Donations: The commission may solicit
donations and gifts of money, personal and real property, and personal
services. All such donations and gifts will become the property of the City for
the general support of park and recreation programs unless such items have been
designated by the donors for specific purposes. (Ord. 22-18, 7-2-2018; amd.
Ord. 37-24, 6-17-2024)
ARTICLE B. USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Definitions
10-5B-2: Intoxicating Beverages
10-5B-3: Horsedrawn Vehicles, Riding Of Animals Restricted
10-5B-4: Dogs And Cats
10-5B-5: Access Limited
10-5B-6: Throwing Stones Or Other Missiles
10-5B-7: Interfering With Animals, Fishing
10-5B-8: Unlawful Deposits
10-5B-9: Obstructions
10-5B-10: Posting Bills, Notices Or Signs
10-5B-11: Sales Restricted
10-5B-12: Possession Of Weapons And Fireworks
10-5B-13: Climbing On Fences, Roofs
10-5B-14: Moving Benches And Tables
10-5B-15: Use Of Spotlights, Searchlights
10-5B-16: Meetings And Gatherings
10-5B-17: Fires
10-5B-18: Loosening Stones From Bluffs Prohibited
10-5B-19: Washing Vehicles
10-5B-20: Compliance With Traffic And Vehicle Laws, Ordinances
10-5B-21: Unattended Vehicles
10-5B-22: Park Hours
10-5B-23: Watersports, Swimming, And Wading
10-5B-24: Prohibited Activities, Signage
10-5B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AT LARGE: Any dog, cat or livestock, fowl or ferret found off the premises of
the owner or keeper.
CAT: Both male and female animals in the family Felis catus whether neutered or
not.
CITY MANAGER: City Manager or City Manager's designee.
COMMISSION OR THE COMMISSION: The Park and Recreation Advisory Commission.
DOG: Both male and female animals of the canine species whether neutered or
not, but not including a law enforcement dog.
KEEPER: A person other than the owner keeping, sheltering, having control or
custody of or harboring an animal.
MULTIPURPOSE USE TRAIL OR TRAILS: A hardened trail of asphalt, concrete or
other impervious surface, typically ten feet (10') to twelve feet (12') wide
and physically separated from the motorized vehicular traffic by an open space
or barrier and either within highway public right-of-way or private property
within an independent alignment for use by pedestrians, skaters, joggers,
bicyclists, and City maintenance vehicles.
OPEN SPACES: Available to the public for passive recreational use in and
adjacent to the City, which are under the responsibility of the commission.
OWNER: A person owning a cat, dog, or other animal.
PARKS AND RECREATION DIRECTOR: Parks and Recreation Director or Parks and
Recreation Director's designee.
PARKS OR PARKWAYS: Parks, parkways, buildings, park roads or driveways, and all
public service facilities or grounds, buildings and structures in and adjacent
to the City, which are under the responsibility of the commission.
PARKS AND RECREATION DIRECTOR: Parks and Recreation Director or Parks and
Recreation Director's designee. (Ord. 42-13, 8-5-2013; amd. Ord. 9-20, 3-2-
2020; Ord. 5-25, 2-17-2025)
10-5B-2: INTOXICATING BEVERAGES:
   A.   Possession, Consumption, Or Use Of Alcoholic Liquor, Wine, Beer, Or
Other Intoxicating Beverages Prohibited:
      1.   The possession, consumption, or use of alcoholic liquors, wine, and
beer as defined by chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa or any other intoxicating
beverages is prohibited on park roadways and trails, in park and recreation
facility parking lots, and in vehicles located within a park.
      2.   The possession, consumption, or use of alcoholic liquors, wine, and
beer as defined by chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa or any other intoxicating
beverages is prohibited in any public park, open space, or park and recreation
facility unless specifically exempted in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   Locations Exempt: Subsection A2 of this section shall not apply to
the possession, consumption, or use of alcoholic liquors, wine, beer, or other
intoxicating beverages at:
         a.   Alliant Energy Amphitheater events for which a special events
permit has been issued under chapter 4 of this title;
         b.   American Trust River's Edge Plaza events for which a special
events permit has been issued under chapter 4 of this title;
         c.   A.Y. McDonald Park;
         d.   Bee Branch Creek Greenway;
         e.   Bunker Hill Golf Course;
         f.   Eagle Point Park;
         g.   Flora Park;
         h.   Four Mounds Park as approved by the Four Mounds Foundation;
         i.   John G. Bergfeld Recreation Area;
         j.   Marshall Park as approved by the Dubuque Arboretum Association,
Inc.;
         k.   McAleece Park and Recreation Complex;
         l.   Miller-Riverview Park;
         m.   Murphy Park;
         n.   Port of Dubuque Marina;
         o.   Port of Dubuque Riverwalk Trail events for which a special events
permit has been issued under chapter 4 of this title;
         p.   Veterans Park; and
         q.   Any other park with the prior written approval of the City
Manager.
      2.   Closed Containers: Subsection A of this section shall not apply to
the transporting of closed containers of intoxicating beverages on park
roadways, in park and recreation facility parking lots, in vehicles located
within the park, and the public parks and park and recreation facilities listed
in subsection B1 of this section.
      3.   Keg Beer: Notwithstanding subsection B1 of this section, beer in
containers commonly referred to as "keg beer" shall only be permitted by a
licensed holder of a beer permit who has obtained a permit from the City
Manager authorizing the use of such container. (Ord. 23-17, 5-15-2017)
10-5B-3: HORSEDRAWN VEHICLES, RIDING OF ANIMALS RESTRICTED:
Horsedrawn vehicles or the riding of horses or any other domesticated animals
used for such purposes is prohibited in any park, parkway, trail, or open space
unless permission is granted by the Parks and Recreation Director and
thereafter authorized through the issuance of a City special events permit
under chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 42-13, 8-5-2013; amd. Ord. 5-25, 2-17-
2025)
10-5B-4: DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   Dogs And Cats Permitted: Leashed dogs and cats are permitted in parks,
parkways, trails, or open spaces. Any unleashed or unattended animal in a park,
parkway, trail, or open space may be impounded and its owner may redeem the
same upon paying the reasonable costs of such impoundment.
   B.   Dogs And Cats Prohibited: Notwithstanding section A, dogs and cats are
prohibited in the following parks, parkways, trails, and open spaces or areas
of parks, parkways, trails, and open spaces:
      1.   Bunker Hill golf course.
      2.   Marshall Park and Dubuque Arboretum and Botanical Gardens.
      3.   Eagle Point Park.
      4.   Murphy Park.
      5.   Nicholas J. Sutton Swimming Pool.
      6.   Flora Park Swimming Pool.
      7.   The Veterans Memorial Plaza within the Gerald “Red” McAleece Park
and Recreation Complex.
      8.   Fenced-in sporting areas, including, but not limited to, courts,
fields, rinks, arenas, and skate parks.
      9.   Buildings or facilities within parks which are listed on the
National Register of Historic Places.
      10.   On playground and recreational areas designed for use by children.
      11.   Where a prohibitory sign is posted.
   C.   Exceptions: The prohibitions in section B do not apply to:
      1.   Service animals used by persons with disabilities;
      2.   Animals present as part of an approved and permitted special event
under chapter 4 of this title;
      3.   Animals which are part of the Storybook Hill Petting Zoo at Franklin
Delano Roosevelt Park; and
      4.   Animals confined to an automobile, camper, motor home (a.k.a.
recreational vehicle), or other similar conveyance during the entirety of their
time within Marshall Park and Dubuque Arboretum and Botanical Gardens, Eagle
Point Park, and Murphy Park so long as the owner is compliant with the state
code related to the safety and health of the animal.
   D.   Animal Control Ordinance Compliance: Leashed dogs and cats are subject
to and must comply with the provisions of title 7, chapter 6 of this code.
   E.   Waste Disposal: The owner or keeper must pick up and dispose of or take
away the dog or cat’s waste.
   F.   Liability: The owner or keeper is responsible for the actions of its
dogs and cats.
   G.   Unleashed Dogs Allowed: Unleashed dogs shall be permitted in the
following areas:
      1.   Pet park.
      2.   John G. Bergfeld Recreation Area ponds, but only when an owner or
keeper is working or exercising a dog by tossing a retrieval dummy or other
object into a pond for out-and-back exercise. At all other times the dog must
be leashed. (Ord. 23-17, 5-15-2017; amd. Ord. 10-20, 3-2-2020)
10-5B-5: ACCESS LIMITED:
No person may proceed into or upon an area of any park, parkway, trail, or open
space where any prohibitory sign is posted. (Ord. 23-17, 5-15-2017)
10-5B-6: THROWING STONES OR OTHER MISSILES:
No person may throw any stone or any other missile within any park, parkway,
trail, or open space. (Ord. 42-13, 8-5-2013)
10-5B-7: INTERFERING WITH ANIMALS, FISHING:
   A.   No person shall kill, trap, tease, annoy, disturb, feed or interfere
with any bird or other fowl, or animals in any park, parkway, trail, or open
space. No person shall rob, injure or destroy the nest of any bird or any other
fowl.
   B.   Fishing is allowed at the following locations:
      A.Y. McDonald Park
      Bee Branch Creek Greenway
      Bissell Harbor
      Dove Harbor, Seventh Street area
      Dubuque Marina Harbor
      Heron Pond, located within Miller Riverview Park
      Ice Harbor
      John G. Bergfeld Recreation Area
      Maus Park
      Port of Dubuque Marina
      Schmitt Harbor
      16th Street detention basin
      32nd Street detention basin ponds
(Ord. 23-17, 5-15-2017)
10-5B-8: UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS:
No person shall throw, deposit, place or leave in any park, parkway, trail, or
open space, any paper, rubbish, waste or refuse of any kind or nature, but
shall deposit the same in the receptacles provided for such materials in the
parks, parkways, trails, or open spaces. (Ord. 11-14, 2-3-2014)
10-5B-9: OBSTRUCTIONS:
No person shall place or suffer to remain in any park, parkway, trail, or open
space any goods, wares, merchandise or other articles in the nature of any
obstruction to the free use and enjoyment of such park, parkway, trail, or open
space without written permission from the Park and Recreation Advisory
Commission of the City. (Ord. 11-14, 2-3-2014)
10-5B-10: POSTING BILLS, NOTICES OR SIGNS:
No person shall post, paste, fasten, paint or affix any placard, bill, notice
or sign upon any structure, tree, stone, fence, thing, or enclosure along or
within any park, parkway, trail, or open space. (Ord. 11-14, 2-3-2014)
10-5B-11: SALES RESTRICTED:
No person shall sell or offer for sale any article or service whatsoever in any
park, parkway, trail, or open space. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to sales of refreshments or any other articles from concession stands
authorized by the commission. (Ord. 11-14, 2-3-2014)
10-5B-12: POSSESSION OF WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS:
   A.   Prohibition: The possession of air rifles, bows and arrows, pellet guns
or slingshots, or fireworks of any description by any person within the limits
of any park, parkway, trail, or open space is hereby prohibited unless
authorized through the issuance of a City special events permit under chapter 4
of this title.
   B.   Deer Hunting With Bow And Arrow:
      1.   On City Property: Bow and arrow hunting will only be allowed on City
property in accordance with the Deer Management Program adopted by the City
Manager or City Manager's designee.
      2.   Exception: An exception to these rules may be granted if approved
through a City of Dubuque special events permit. (Ord. 31-17, 7-5-2017)
10-5B-13: CLIMBING ON FENCES, ROOFS:
No person shall climb, damage, tamper with, stand or sit on any fence, rail or
any other structure not intended for such use in any park, parkway, trail, or
open space. The climbing of buildings and going onto roofs, either with ladders
or from the inside of the buildings through the windows or any other way is
forbidden. (Ord. 11-14, 2-3-2014; amd. Ord. 28-25, 7-7-2025)
10-5B-14: MOVING BENCHES AND TABLES:
No person shall move benches, seats and tables from any building or to any
building in any park, parkway, trail, or open space without first securing
permission of the City Manager. (Ord. 11-14, 2-3-2014)
10-5B-15: USE OF SPOTLIGHTS, SEARCHLIGHTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except regular park employees, to operate
or manipulate in any park or upon any parkway, trail, or open space any
spotlight or searchlight. (Ord. 11-14, 2-3-2014)
10-5B-16: MEETINGS AND GATHERINGS:
Parks, parkways, trails, open spaces, or portions thereof, are available for
reservation for group gatherings during the open park season by contacting the
Parks and Recreation Department Office. Such reservations can be made twenty
three (23) months in advance. Parks, parkways, trails, open spaces, or portions
thereof, shall be cleaned up after use by the party reserving the same. Litter,
cans, paper, waste and refuse shall be deposited in receptacles provided
therefor. (Ord. 23-17, 5-15-2017; amd. Ord. 5-25, 2-17-2025)
10-5B-17: FIRES:
No person shall start any fire in any park or upon any parkway, trail, or open
space, except small fires for cooking, heat, or recreation may be made in the
places in parks, parkways, trails, or open spaces in accordance with policies
adopted by the City Manager. Every person who starts or uses any such fire is
hereby charged with the duty of completely extinguishing such fire before
leaving the park, parkway, trail, or open space. (Ord. 41-18, 10-15-2018)
10-5B-18: LOOSENING STONES FROM BLUFFS PROHIBITED:
No person shall loosen stones from bluffs or roll or throw the same down the
face of the bluff. (Ord. 54-06, 7-5-2006)
10-5B-19: WASHING VEHICLES:
No person shall wash any motor vehicle, motorcycle or scooter in any City park,
parkway, trail, or open space. (Ord. 11-14, 2-3-2014)
10-5B-20: COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC AND VEHICLE LAWS, ORDINANCES:
   A.   Motorized Vehicles: No person in a park, parkway, trail, or open space
shall fail to comply with all applicable provisions of the motor vehicle laws
of the State in regard to equipment and operation of motor vehicles together
with such regulations as are contained in this article and other ordinances of
the City.
   B.   Non-Motorized Vehicles: Non-motorized vehicles, including, but not
limited to skateboards, bicycles, scooters, and hoverboards, must comply with
the provisions of section
9-7-321.275A of this Code. (Ord. 23-17, 5-15-2017)
10-5B-21: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
   A.   Any motor vehicle left unattended in any of the parks after closing
thereof shall be deemed abandoned and the City Manager or the park ranger shall
cause the same to be towed from such park and the same shall not be redeemed by
the owner or the person responsible therefor until the reasonable towing
charges and storage fees are paid.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for a motor vehicle to stand or park in a park,
parkway, trail, or open space for more than twenty four (24) hours without such
vehicle being moved, unless authorized by the City Manager.
   C.   Parking may be limited to users of parks, parkways, trails, or open
spaces and the City Manager reserves the right to remove motor vehicles which
are not associated with users of the parks, parkways, trails, or open spaces.
(Ord. 23-17, 5-15-2017)
10-5B-22: PARK HOURS:
   A.   For the purpose of this section except as noted below all city parks
are open to the public from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M daily, unless an alternate schedule or deviated schedule has been approved
by the Parks and Recreation Director to meet operational needs, through the
special events permit application process, or as conditioned by a City rental
reservation. No person shall enter or remain in any park, parkway, trail, open
space, or park and recreation facility other than during the hours designated
in this section or authorized by the Parks and Recreation Director, an approved
special event permit, City rental reservation, or Parks and Recreation
Department sponsored program or activity
   B.   For the purposes of this section, the regular park season shall mean
from the first Saturday in May through the fourth Sunday of October. The
regular park season is when restrooms and other park amenities are de-
winterized for the spring-fall season, become available for public use, and
pavilions can be reserved. C. Eagle Point Park, Flora Park and Louis Murphy
Park shall be open for use by the public from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday, and from seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Friday and Saturday during the regular park
season.
   C.   Eagle Point Park, Flora Park and Louis Murphy Park shall be open for
use by the public from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
Sunday through Thursday, and from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. Friday and Saturday during the regular park season.
   D.   Marshall Park and the public use area of Franklin Delano Roosevelt Park
shall be open to the general public from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to sunset
daily during the regular park season.
   E.   Gerald "Red" McAleece Park and Recreation Complex shall be open for use
by the public from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
March through November.
   F.   Bunker Hill Golf Course shall be open for use by the public from seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. daily, March through
November, unless posted otherwise for operational needs.
   G.   Flora Park Swimming Pool and Nicholas J. Sutton Swimming Pool shall be
open for use by the public as determined on an annual basis based on
operational capacity. Hours and dates of operation shall be posted and
publicized in advance of pool season. The City reserves the right to modify the
hours and dates of operations as needed over the course of the summer.
   H.   Miller-Riverview Park shall be open for use by the public from seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. until ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. daily, and only registered
campers shall be permitted in the area at all other hours.
   I.   The Pet Park shall be open from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. until eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. daily.
   J.   The City Manager shall have the authority to close any or all parks,
parkways, trails, open spaces, park and recreation facilities, park roadways
and park parking lots before scheduled closing hours at times it is deemed
necessary for operational needs or in the interest and safety of the public.
   K.   The following parks shall be open for use by the public twenty four
(24) hours per day:
         Alliant Energy Amphitheater
         American Trust River's Edge Plaza
         Bee Branch Creek Greenway
         Granger Creek Nature Trail
         Heritage Trail
         Jaycee Trail
         Northwest Arterial Trail
         Port of Dubuque Riverwalk Trail
         Powerline Trail
         Southern Levy Trail
   L.   Camping is authorized in Miller-Riverview Park in accordance with City
policies and procedures. Camping is prohibited in all other parks, parkways,
trails, and open spaces unless approved, in writing by the City Manager or
through a special events permit issued under chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 23-
18, 7-2-2018; amd. Ord. 32-20, 8-17-2020; Ord. 5-25, 2-17-2025; Ord. 28-25, 7-
7-2025)
10-5B-23: WATERSPORTS, SWIMMING, AND WADING:
See section
10-7-13 of this title. (Ord. 23-17, 5-15-2017)
10-5B-24: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES, SIGNAGE:
The City Manager is authorized to post signage in parks, parkways, trails, and
open spaces, or any portions thereof, regulating activities within the
designated area. A failure to comply with signage shall be a violation of this
Code. (Ord. 23-17, 5-15-2017)
ARTICLE C. SPECIFIC PARKS, OPEN SPACES AND TRAILS
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Specific Park Areas, Open Spaces, And Trails Described
10-5C-1: SPECIFIC PARK AREAS, OPEN SPACES, AND TRAILS DESCRIBED:
Park descriptions for parks, open space descriptions for open spaces and trail
descriptions for trails will be reviewed on a periodic basis and added, deleted
and amended as necessary. Enforcement of use regulations will not be contingent
on parks, open spaces, and trails being specifically listed in this section.
The following described parcels of real estate are and will be used for public
park purposes and will continue to be known as set forth below and placed under
the jurisdiction of the Park and Recreation Advisory Commission: (Ord. 23-17,
5-15-2017)
    A.Y. McDonald Park: Blocks 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in River Front Subdivision No.
3.
   Alliant Energy Amphitheater: The area of the Port of Dubuque west of the
Port of Dubuque Riverwalk Trail, south of the railroad tracks, east of Bell
Street, and adjacent to the former Dubuque Star Brewery.
   Allison-Henderson Park: Lots 1, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 of Pinehurst
Subdivision in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
   American Trust River's Edge Plaza: That area, including the flat area, steps
and ramp, outside the floodwall at the Port of Dubuque at the south end of the
Port of Dubuque Riverwalk Trail.
   Avon Park: Lots 6 through 10 of Mary Ann McDaniel's Subdivision of parts of
Lots 823 and 824 of A. McDaniel's Subdivision in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
   Bee Branch Creek Greenway: The park area surrounding the 16th Street
detention basin and paralleling the day lighted Bee Branch Creek.
   Bunker Hill Golf Course: Part of Lot 2 in Highland Farms Addition; Lot 16 in
Pfohl's Subdivision; Mineral Lots 189, 200, 201, 202, 210, 270, 336 and 370,
and parts of Mineral Lots 190, 265 and 340, all in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
   Burden Park: Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 3 northeast quarter, Section 13, Township
89 North, Range 2 East in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
   Caledonia Park: Lot 38 of Kelly's Subdivision in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
   Cancer Survivor Park: Lot 21 and 22 of the Finley Home Addition.
   Center Grove open space: East one fourth of City Lot 500.
   Cleveland Park: South two-thirds of city Lot 695 and Lots 35, 36, 37 and
east 20 feet of Lot 38 of Union Addition in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
   Comiskey Park: Lots 1 through 23, Lots 24 through 46 and the intervening
alley in Boulevard Addition of the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
   Creek Wood Park: Lot 2 of Timber-Hyrst Place #2 in the City of Dubuque.
   E.B. Lyons Prairie/Woodland Preserve: A. Lots 2 and 3 of the northeast one-
quarter of the southeast one-quarter of section 1, township 88 north, range 2
east of fifth prime meridian; Lots 2 and 3 of the northwest one-quarter of the
southwest one-quarter, Lots 2 and 3 of the northeast one-quarter of the
southwest one-quarter, and Lot 2 of Lot 1 of the southwest one-quarter of the
southwest one-quarter; of section 6, township 88 north, range 3 east of the
fifth prime meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa, according to the respective
recorded plats thereof.
         Such real estate shall be known, called and named as the "E.B. Lyons
Prairie/Woodland Preserve" and accordingly such real estate is so permanently
named.
      Eagle Point Park and Ham House Museum: Lot 1 through Lot 7 in Berendes
Subdivision; Lot 2 in Chris Braun's Place; Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 2 of Lot 2A in
Clark's Subdivision; Lot 2 of Lot 1, Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 1, and Lot 2 in
Eagle Point View; Lot 2 of Lot 6, Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 6, and Lot 107 through
Lot 124 in Fountain Hill Resubdivisions; Lot 529 through Lot 534 in Ham's
Addition; Lot 503 through Lot 515 in Ham's Addition (Eagle Point); Lot 2 of Lot
221, Lot 1 of Lot 222, Lot 223 and Lot 224 in Julien Addition; Lot 1 of Lot 6
in Katherine Place; Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 in Potter Place; Lot 1
through Lot 10 in Potter's Shiras Avenue Place; Lot 1 of Lot 2 of Lot 2 of Lot
3 and Lot 2 of Lot 3 in Shiras Subdivision; and parts of Mineral Lots 305A,
308, 309A, 310, 311 and 312, all in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Eagle Valley Park: Lot C of Block 3 of Eagle Valley Subdivision.
      Elmwood Green Park: Lot
2-2-2 of Mineral Lot 349 in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      English Ridge Park: Lot A and Lot K English Ridge Subdivision.
      Falk Park: Lot 23 in Falks Subdivision in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Flat Iron Park: A triangularly shaped area bounded on the easterly side
by Main Street, on the southerly side by Jones Street and on the westerly side
by Shields Street.
      Flora Park: Except for the appurtenant easements of right of way and a
strip along Pennsylvania Street twenty feet (20') in width, the following real
estate in the west end of the city:
      Sylvester Place: Lot 1 of 4 of Mineral Lot 260; Lot 2 of 1 of 2 of 4 of
Mineral Lot 260; Lot 2 of 2 of 4 of Mineral Lot 260; Lot 2 of 2 of Mineral Lot
259; Lot 1 of 2 of Mineral Lot 259; Lot 1 of 1 of 1 of 1 of 1 of 2 of J.P.
Metel's Subdivision.
      Four Mounds: Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 1, and Lot 1 of Lot
1 of Lot 2 of Lot 1, both of the Subdivision of: "Lot 1 of Lot 7 of the
southwest one-quarter of Section 1, the southwest one-quarter of the northwest
one-quarter of Section 1 and Government Lot 1 (or Mineral Lot 331) of Section
1, Township 89 North, Range 2 East of the fifth principal meridian". Lot 2 of
the northwest one-quarter of the northwest one-quarter of Section 1, Township
89 North, Range 2 East of the fifth principal meridian, all in the city of
Dubuque, Iowa, and Lot 16 of "John Deere Dubuque Tractor Works" in Dubuque
Township, and Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 2 of Lot 2 of Section 2, both in
Township 89 North, Range 2 East of the fifth principal meridian, according to
the United States Government Survey and the recorded plats thereof, subject to
easements of record.
      Franklin Delano Roosevelt Park: Lot 1 of the west half of the northeast
one-quarter of Section 4, Township 88 North, Range 2 East of fifth principal
meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa and Mineral Lots 272 and 273, Lot 1 of Mineral
Lot 271, Lot 1 of Mineral Lot 274, and Lot 1 of Mineral Lot 276 in Dubuque
Township, Dubuque County, Iowa.
      Gay Park: Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 in Young
Primrose Place and Lots 3 and 4 in Grommersch Place, all in the city of
Dubuque, Iowa.
      Gerald "Red" McAleece Park And Recreation Complex: Those portions of
Mineral Lots 294, 295, Lots 1 and 2 of 296, 297, 298, 299 and 300 and
Government Lot 1, located in Sections 17, 18, 19 and 20, Township 89 North,
Range 3 East in the city of Dubuque, Dubuque County, Iowa, and bounded by Lake
Peosta Channel and the Mississippi River.
      Granger Creek Nature Trail: Area surrounding Dubuque Technology Park at
corner of Highways 151/61 and Lake Eleanor Road.
      Grant Park: A triangularly shaped area bounded on the easterly side by
Locust Street, on the westerly side by Bluff Street, and on the southerly side
by Fifteenth Street.
      Harvest View Park: Lot A of Harvest View Estates First Addition.
      Heritage Trail: A linear piece of property from 22nd to 32nd Streets
along Elm Street, in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Hillcrest Park: Lot 1 of Lot 4 of Mineral Lot 261 in the city of Dubuque,
Iowa.
      Hilltop Park: West one-half of Lot 1 of the south one-third of Lots 34
and 35; west 127 feet and 6 inches of Lot 1 of Lot 2 of the south one-third of
Lots 34 and 35; west one-half of Lot 2 of Lot 2 of the south one-third of Lots
34 and 35; west one- half of the north one-half of Lot 36; west one-half of the
south one-half of Lot 36; west one-half of Lot 2 of Lot 37; Lot 1 of Lot 1 of
Lot 37; Lot 2 of Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 37 all in Kelly's Subdivision in the
city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Jackson Park: An area bounded on the westerly side by Main Street, on the
southerly side by Fifteenth Street, on the easterly side by Iowa Street and on
the northerly side by the south property line of city Lot 746 of the original
township, all in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Jaycee Trail: A linear trail area paralleling the Peosta Channel from AY
McDonald park to Pyatigorsk park.
      Jefferson Park: Lots 38, 39, 40 and east 21 feet of Lot 41 of Farley's
Subdivision in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      John G. Bergfeld Recreation Area: Lot C of the Dubuque Industrial Center
West.
      Louis Murphy Park: That part of Lots 1, 2 and 4 of Mineral Lot 37 lying
southerly of Highway 61; that part of Lots 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of O'Connor's
Subdivision lying southerly of Highway 61; westerly 42 feet of Lot 2 and the
westerly 42 feet of Lot 2 of Lot 15 in Summer Hill Addition; Lots 14, 15, 16
and 17 in Rowan's Addition; Lot 1 of Lot 1 of the subdivision of Mineral Lot
36A; Lot 1 of Lot 2 of Mineral Lot 38; and that part of Lot 6 and all of Lots
7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 lying easterly of Highway 61, all in the city of
Dubuque, Iowa.
      Madison Park: Lots 32, 33, and 34 of the Subdivision of Lots 676 and 677
in L.H. Langworthy Addition; Lot 5 of the Subdivision of Lot 674 in L.H.
Langworthy Addition; Lot 1 of Lot 2 of the Subdivision of Lots 676 and 677 in
L.H. Langworthy Addition; Lot 3 of Lot 3 of the Subdivision of Lots 676 and 677
in L.H. Langworthy Addition; and two (2) unnumbered Lots lying between Lots 677
and 678 in L.H. Langworthy Addition, all in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Marna Ridge Children's Forest: Lot A of Lot B, Block 1 of Marna Ridge
Estates 2, as comprised of Mildreds Addition in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Marshall Park: Northwest one-quarter of the southeast one- quarter of the
southwest one-quarter of Section 10, Township 89 North, Range 2 East of the
fifth principal meridian according to the United States Government Survey
thereof, and the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 10,
Township 89 North, Range 2 East of the fifth principal meridian according to
the United States Government Survey thereof, also right-of-way over the
westerly 20 feet of Lot 1 of the subdivision of Lot 1 of 1 of 1 of Mineral Lot
390, Lot 2 of 1 of Mineral Lot 386 and Lot 2 of Mineral Lot 380 according to
the recorded plats thereof, all in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Maus Park: Lot
1-1-1 of Mineral Lot 38, Lot 2 of Section 31, Township 89 North, Range 2 East
of Lands Part of Moore's Mill Slough Township 89 North, Range 2 East Part of
Moore's Mill Slough in Section 31 and Section 36, Township 89 North, Range 2
East and Lot 1 Mount Carmel Subdivision.
      Medical Associates Greenbelt: Lot 11 of Medical Associates Subdivision in
the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Miller-Riverview Park: That part of Chaplain Schmitt Memorial Island
located northerly of the Dubuque greyhound racing facility and easterly of the
wetlands area extending easterly an average of approximately four hundred (400)
feet more or less to the Mississippi River.
      Nicholas J. Sutton Swimming Pool: Part of Lots 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 331,
332 and 333 in Ham's Addition; that part of vacated Garfield Avenue lying
adjacent to Lots 45, 46, 331 and 332 in Ham's Addition; that part of vacated
Summer Street lying adjacent to Lots 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 331, 332 and 333 in
Ham's Addition; and that part of the vacated alley lying adjacent to Lots 46
and 47 in Ham's Addition, all in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Northwest Arterial Trail: A linear trail in the IDOT right of way
paralleling the Northwest Arterial.
      Oakwood Park: Lot 2 Oakwood Park Subdivision and Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1
of Heim Subdivision, both in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Park Tree Farm: Lots 503 and 515 in Ham's Addition of the city of
Dubuque, Iowa.
      Pet Park: Area on North Grandview Avenue, east of the Bunker Hill golf
course and south of the water department pumping station.
      Pinard Park: Lots 138, 139 and 140 in Glendale Addition No. 2 in the city
of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Port Of Dubuque Marina: That part of the Port of Dubuque that serves as
the Marina bordered by the Ice Harbor.
      Port Of Dubuque Riverwalk Trail: A linear trail area paralleling the
Mississippi River and Ice Harbor in the Port of Dubuque.
      Powerline Trail: A linear trail running from Grandview Avenue near Murphy
park to Julien Dubuque Drive.
      Pyatigorsk Park: Area located at the northeast corner of Sixteenth Street
and Kerper Boulevard, west of the Jaycees trail and south of the Highway 151
Bridge.
      Riley Park: Lot E of Crescent Heights Subdivision.
      Rustic Point Park: Lot K Rustic Point Estates #2.
      Rocco Buda Jr. Park: Lot 1 of 1 of 1 of 810 A. McDaniels Subdivision.
      Southern Levy Trail: A linear trail running on the Southern Levy along
the Mississippi River south of Highway 20.
      Southern Park: Beginning at the NW Corner of Lot 1 of said John Breakey's
Addition; thence S46°223/4'W, 315.98 ft., along the Northwesterly line of said
John Breakey's Addition; thence S81°011/4'W, 12.72 ft.; thence S38°473/4'E,
64.04 ft.; thence S51°121/4'W, 46.36 ft.; thence N38°473/4'W, 78.87 ft.; thence
S68°573/4'W, 111.56 ft.; thence S35°45'W, 84.25 ft.; thence S42°39'E, 218.28
ft.
      Teddy Bear Park: Lot 1 of Block 19, Sunnyslopes Estates in the city of
Dubuque, Iowa.
      Trolley Line Trail: A linear trail running from Mathia S Ham House to
welcome area at entry of Eagle Point Park and a part of Eagle Point park.
      Usha Park: Lot 1 of Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Byrne's Subdivision in the city of
Dubuque, Iowa.
      Valentine Park: Lot 1 of the Subdivision of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of
McLean Heights and Lot 4 in Block 2 of Marna Ridge Estates 2 in the city of
Dubuque, Iowa and Lot 1 of Roepsch Place No. 2.
      Valley High Park: Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 in Mineral Lot 337 and
Lot 5 in Wiegand's Subdivision, all in the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Veterans Memorial Park: Lot 2 of Mineral Lot 382, Lots 1 and 2 of Lot 1
of Mineral Lot 383, Mineral Lot 384 and part of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 2 of
Mineral Lot 385 lying south of Thirty Second Street, all in the city of
Dubuque, Iowa.
      Waller-Cooper Park: Lots 26, 27 and 28 in Cooper Heights Addition in the
city of Dubuque, Iowa.
      Washington Park: An area bounded on the northerly side by West Seventh
Street, on the westerly side by Bluff Street, on the southerly side by West
Sixth Street, and on the easterly side by Locust Street.
      Welu Park: Lot 22 of Sunset Park Eighth Addition to the city of Dubuque,
Iowa.
      Westbrook Park: Approximately three (3) acres within Lot A, Block 1 of
Westbrook Subdivision. (Ord. 42-13, 8-5-2013; amd. Ord. 23-17, 5-15-2017; Ord.
28-25, 7-7-2025)
CHAPTER 6
RAILROADS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Speed Restrictions
10-6-2: Unlawful Deposits
10-6-3: Maintenance Of Crossings, Rights Of Way
10-6-4: Use Of Certain Track As Team Track Restricted
10-6-5: Parking Near Certain Streets Prohibited
10-6-1: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall operate a passenger train over and upon the grade crossings in
the city at a speed of greater than thirty (30) miles per hour, nor any freight
train at a speed greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour. (2007 Code § 39-
1)
10-6-2: UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS:
No person shall deposit or permit to be deposited debris or substances of any
kind upon any street where railroad tracks are located and where cars are
placed to be loaded or unloaded either by abutting owners or occupants of
property or other persons. (2007 Code § 39-2)
10-6-3: MAINTENANCE OF CROSSINGS, RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Notice To Repair: Whenever the city manager shall consider repairs
necessary upon street, avenue or alley crossings or rights of way occupied by a
railroad company operating within the city, the city manager shall notify such
company to make the required repairs, which notice may be served upon or mailed
to any officer of the company and shall state the time and place when and where
such repairs shall be made and prescribe the materials with which such repairs
shall be constructed.
   B.   Performance Of Work By City Upon Company's Failure To Make Repairs
After Notice: All repairs to railroad crossings or rights of way ordered made
by the city manager shall be fully performed without delay at the expense of
the company so notified. However, should repairs be ordered and not made by any
company, the city manager shall proceed to have such repairs made.
   C.   Collection Of Costs Of Repairs Made By City: The expense of repairs
made by the city pursuant to subsection B of this section shall be charged to
the company and collected, if necessary, by suit in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   D.   Manner Of Repairs; Materials; Supervision: The manner in which the
repairs provided for in subsection A of this section shall be made and the
materials to be used shall be designated by the manager and the work shall be
performed under the supervision of the city manager.
   E.   Proration Of Expenses Between Railroads: Whenever repairs are ordered
to be made, pursuant to this section, at any crossing which is used by more
than one railroad, each railroad shall bear such proportion of the expense
thereof as the amount of space occupied by such railroad bears to the whole
amount of repairs ordered. The city manager shall determine the amount of
repairs which each railroad shall make and the city manager's decision shall be
final.
   F.   Effect Of Section As To Previous Grants: Wherever grants to railroad
companies, made previous to August 2, 1920, prescribing the manner in which
repairs at railroad crossings shall be made are in conflict with this section,
the same are hereby repealed and the provisions of this section are intended to
supersede the same. (2007 Code § 39-3)
10-6-4: USE OF CERTAIN TRACK AS TEAM TRACK RESTRICTED:
Track no. 3 located upon Jackson Street in the city and extending from 6th
Street to 11th Street and owned and constructed by the Illinois Central
Railroad Company shall not be used as a "team track" for the loading or
unloading of railroad cars thereon; provided, however, that should a request be
made upon any railroad company by the owner or occupant of abutting property to
place a car to be loaded or unloaded on said track opposite or in front of such
property, then and in that event cars may be loaded or unloaded upon such
track, but the same shall be so loaded or unloaded only in front of or opposite
the abutting property whose owner or occupant has made the request; provided,
further, that, should any person other than abutting owner or occupant desire
the privilege of loading or unloading cars upon such track, such person shall
first procure the consent of the owners or occupants of abutting property on
both sides of the streets where it is desired to load or unload such car, and
if such consent is obtained, such car may be loaded or unloaded by such parties
on the track opposite the property whose owners or occupants have consented
thereto. (2007 Code § 39-4)
10-6-5: PARKING NEAR CERTAIN STREETS PROHIBITED:
No person shall park or leave railroad cars standing at night on railroad
tracks in or near the center and east line of Washington and Jackson Streets
within fifteen feet (15') of the north property lines of East 8th, East 9th,
and East 10th Streets. (2007 Code § 39-5)
CHAPTER 7
BOATS, BOATING AND WATERFRONT STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10-7-1: Intent
10-7-2: Definitions
10-7-3: Unlawful Deposits
10-7-4: Boat Landing Areas
10-7-5: Mooring Of Boathouses And Floats Along Waterfront
10-7-6: Floats, Boathouses Maintained In Orderly Condition
10-7-7: Conducting Trade Or Business In Pleasure Craft Spaces
10-7-8: Launching, Removing Boat From Water At Public Launching Ramps
10-7-9: Repairs To Boats At Public Launching Ramps
10-7-10: Water Operation Rules
10-7-11: Removal Of Sunken, Derelict Or Abandoned Craft
10-7-12: No Parking Areas
10-7-13: Places And Hours Of Restriction
10-7-14: Driving Over Ice
10-7-1: INTENT:
The City Council desires to optimize the use of waterfront property through
careful management of land and the effective maintenance of water frontage and
harbors to maintain and enhance the aesthetic characteristics of the
waterfront. (2007 Code § 10-1)
10-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
BOATHOUSE: Any structure, floating house or floating shed of any material used
to enclose a boat or boats, for the purposes of housing said boat or boats.
COMMERCIAL HARBOR: A harbor used exclusively for movement, storage, loading and
unloading of commercial products.
FLOAT: A platform without a superstructure, anchored near a shoreline for use
by boats.
PLEASURE BOAT HARBOR: A harbor used exclusively for the storage and mooring of
pleasure craft. (2007 Code § 10-21)
10-7-3: UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS:
No person shall throw, place or otherwise deposit or cause to be deposited any
material of any kind including human waste in the water or upon the shores
thereof of any waterfront or upon the shores thereof in such a position that
such articles, substances or materials may be washed into the water. (2007 Code
§ 10-22)
10-7-4: BOAT LANDING AREAS:
The City Manager shall designate public boat landing areas along the
municipally owned waterfront for pleasure craft and commercial vessels and mark
all such public boat landing areas with suitable signs delineating their
boundaries. (2007 Code § 10-23)
10-7-5: MOORING OF BOATHOUSES AND FLOATS ALONG WATERFRONT:
   A.   No boathouses or floats shall be moored along the waterfront of the
City or in the Ice Harbor, nor shall any such boathouses or floats be relocated
to the waterfront or in the Ice Harbor without the written permission of the
City Manager.
   B.   Transfer of ownership of boathouses and floats owned and located along
the waterfront shall be prohibited. (2007 Code § 10-27)
10-7-6: FLOATS, BOATHOUSES MAINTAINED IN ORDERLY CONDITION:
All floats and boathouses moored along the waterfront of the City shall be
maintained in a neat and orderly condition, properly painted and securely
moored. (2007 Code § 10-28)
10-7-7: CONDUCTING TRADE OR BUSINESS IN PLEASURE CRAFT SPACES:
No person shall conduct any trade or business in any pleasure craft space
without first obtaining written permission to do so from the City Manager.
(2007 Code § 10-30)
10-7-8: LAUNCHING, REMOVING BOAT FROM WATER AT PUBLIC LAUNCHING RAMPS:
   A.   No passenger shall occupy a motor vehicle being used to launch a boat
at any of the public ramps.
   B.   No passenger shall occupy a boat during the launching thereof or in the
removal of the boat from the water and the pulling of the boat up the ramp.
(2007 Code § 10-31)
10-7-9: REPAIRS TO BOATS AT PUBLIC LAUNCHING RAMPS:
Repair work to boats and motors shall not be conducted while boats are tied to
any public launching ramp except in those emergency situations where reasonable
likelihood of injury to property or persons exists or would exist if the
repairs were not made. (2007 Code § 10-32)
10-7-10: WATER OPERATION RULES:
An owner or operator of a watercraft operating in waters under the jurisdiction
of the City shall conform to the following rules:
   A.   Careful Operation: An operator of a motorboat or watercraft shall at
all times navigate such craft in a careful and prudent manner and at such a
rate of speed as not to endanger the lives or property of others.
   B.   Areas Of No Wake Speed: An owner, operator or person in command or
control of any powerboat shall operate the powerboat or permit it to be
operated at no wake speed in any of the following areas:
      1.   Within one hundred feet (100') of any person in the water;
      2.   Within two hundred feet (200') of any quay or landing float to which
boats are made fast or that is used for embarking or discharging passengers;
and
      3.   In the Ice Harbor and Dove Harbor.
   C.   Obstructing Public Landings: No person shall anchor a boat for fishing
or other purposes on any body of water under the jurisdiction of the City in
such a position as to obstruct access to public landings.
   D.   Precautions During Mooring: The operator of a boat or any other type of
watercraft, when mooring the craft, shall exercise reasonable precautions to
make sure that the vessel or craft will not go adrift, and that the action of
the water will not cause it to injure or endanger the property of others. (2007
Code § 10-33)
10-7-11: REMOVAL OF SUNKEN, DERELICT OR ABANDONED CRAFT:
The City Manager may direct the removal and destruction of any sunken, derelict
or abandoned craft, float or boathouse when the City Manager determines that
the same constitutes a nuisance. The owner of any such craft, float or
boathouse shall remove the same when directed to do so by the City Manager.
(2007 Code § 10-34)
10-7-12: NO PARKING AREAS:
The City Manager is hereby authorized and empowered to establish "no parking
areas" on riverfront property areas and, when any such areas shall be
established by ordinance, and signs have been posted giving notice, it shall
therefore be unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle or boat
trailer to park the same in such areas. (2007 Code § 10-35)
10-7-13: PLACES AND HOURS OF RESTRICTION:
   A.   Watersports Prohibition: No person shall ice skate or operate a vessel
towing a person or persons on water skis, surfboard or similar device, nor
shall any person engage in waterskiing, motorized personal watercraft
operation, surfboarding (excluding paddle boarding) or similar activity at any
time in the following areas:
      1.   Bissell Harbor.
      2.   Dove Harbor, Seventh Street area.
      3.   Dubuque Marina Harbor.
      4.   Heron Pond, located within Miller Riverview Park.
      5.   Ice Harbor including Port of Dubuque Marina.
      6.   John G. Bergfeld Recreation Area.
      7.   Maus Park.
      8.   Northwest Arterial detention basin.
      9.   Schmitt Harbor.
      10.   16th Street detention basin.
      11.   32nd Street detention basin pond(s).
   B.   Swimming And Wading: No person shall swim or wade at any time in the
following areas:
      1.   Bee Branch Creek Greenway.
      2.   Bissell Harbor.
      3.   Dove Harbor, Seventh Street area.
      4.   Dubuque Marina Harbor.
      5.   Heron Pond, located within Miller Riverview Park.
      6.   Ice Harbor including Port of Dubuque Marina.
      7.   John G. Bergfeld Recreation Area.
      8.   Maus Park.
      9.   Miller Riverview Park.
      10.   Northwest Arterial detention basin.
      11.   Port of Dubuque Riverwalk Trail.
      12.   Rivers Edge Plaza.
      13.   Schmitt Harbor.
      14.   16th Street detention basin.
      15.   32nd Street detention basin pond(s).
   C.   Schmitt Harbor And Hawthorne Street Boat Ramps: No person shall swim or
ice skate within five hundred feet (500') of the Schmitt Harbor Boat Ramp and
the Hawthorne Street Boat Ramp.
   D.   Hours: In all other areas under the jurisdiction of the City, no person
shall swim, ice skate or operate a vessel towing a person or persons on water
skis, surfboard or similar device, nor shall any person engage in waterskiing,
surfboarding (excluding paddle boarding) or similar activity at any time
between the hours of one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to sunrise.
   E.   Commercial Use: Nothing herein shall prohibit access to the Ice Harbor
including the Port of Dubuque Marina for commercial use of the facility. (Ord.
24-17, 5-15-2017)
10-7-14: DRIVING OVER ICE:
No person shall operate a snowmobile or motor vehicle of any kind on the ice
surface of any waterway. (2007 Code § 10-37)
CHAPTER 8
VALET DROP OFF PARKING; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Permit Required
10-8-2: Permit Fee
10-8-3: Permit Application
10-8-4: Application Form; Information Required
10-8-5: Hold Harmless Agreement
10-8-6: Standards For Issuance
10-8-7: Revocation Of Permit
10-8-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before any for profit organization or business offers valet drop off parking,
the organization or business must first obtain a permit from the city manager.
(Ord. 35-14, 5-19-2014)
10-8-2: PERMIT FEE:
A permit fee will be charged at the rate of four hundred dollars ($400.00) per
year. (Ord. 35-14, 5-19-2014)
10-8-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   Filing Of Application: An application for a permit containing the
information required herein must be filed with the city manager by any group
desiring to use any city property or public right of way as provided in this
section. Applications must be made on forms prepared by the city manager, and
must contain the information required herein. The city manager will have a
reasonable time to grant or deny the permit. The length of time that is
reasonable will be determined by the location, the information supplied, the
time of filing of the application, public safety, and the extent of advance
preparation or planning demonstrated and reasonably required.
   B.   Grant Or Denial Of Permit: The city manager must grant or deny the
permit, in writing, according to the standards set forth in section
10-8-6 of this chapter and must provide the written decision to the applicant
by regular mail or by personal delivery. (Ord. 35-14, 5-19-2014)
10-8-4: APPLICATION FORM; INFORMATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Contents Of Application: The application form for the use of any city
property or public right of way must contain the following information:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant and the sponsoring organization,
if any.
      2.   Proposed location or locations.
      3.   Date, time and expected length of the use.
      4.   Names and addresses of the person or persons to be in charge of the
proposed use at the specified location.
      5.   Number and type of any motor vehicles or other forms of
transportation to be used, including bicycles.
      6.   Plan for compliance with the Americans with disabilities act and
Americans with disabilities act accessibility guidelines (ADAAG).
      7.   Other information as the city manager believes necessary to ensure
public access and safety. (Ord. 35-14, 5-19-2014)
10-8-5: HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT:
For valet parking on city property or the public right of way the application
must include an agreement pursuant to which the applicant agrees to indemnify,
defend and hold harmless the city and its agents, officers and employees, from
any and all claims, lawsuits, damages, losses and expenses, of whatever nature,
which may result or arise from the provision of valet parking covered by the
permit, irrespective of whether said claims are frivolous or meritorious. (Ord.
35-14, 5-19-2014)
10-8-6: STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE:
   A.   Issuance: The city manager must examine the application, and must grant
or deny said permit based upon the following standards:
      1.   Interference With Privacy, Safety And Security: In light of the date
and time of said proposed use, whether the use will unreasonably interfere with
the privacy, safety, security, convenience and tranquility of the residents or
inhabitants of the area.
      2.   Size And Condition Of Accommodations: Whether the proposed city
property or public right of way can accommodate the proposed use, based both on
size, location, and public safety.
      3.   Compatibility Of Use: Whether the proposed valet parking is
compatible with the normal activity of the city property or public right of way
at the requested time or date.
      4.   Demonstration Of Means, Planning And Coordination: Whether the
application demonstrates the applicant has the means, planning and coordination
to perform the valet parking considering the time of day, location, public or
private facilities available, traffic control, parking requirements and any
monitoring required to protect the public health and safety.
      5.   Timing Of Event: Whether valet parking will interfere with another
event or valet parking operation for which a permit has already been granted.
      6.   Interruption Of Vehicular Or Pedestrian Traffic: Whether the
proposed use would substantially interrupt the flow of street and/or pedestrian
traffic.
      7.   Excessive Diversion Of Police: Whether the use would require the
excessive diversion of police from other duties, or substantially interfere
with the city's firefighting operations. (Ord. 35-14, 5-19-2014)
10-8-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
After a permit is granted, in the event it is determined that the applicant has
misstated any material fact in the application, or that there is a substantial
and material variance between the information in the application and the actual
facts or those facts that appear reasonably to have occurred, the city manager
may review such application and revoke such permit if not in compliance with
this chapter. Such permit may also be revoked when it is determined by the
chief of police that by reason of disaster, public calamity, riot or other
emergency, the public safety requires such revocation. (Ord. 35-14, 5-19-2014)
TITLE 11
RIGHTS-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 1
NONFRANCHISED COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
SECTION:
11-1-1: Definitions
11-1-2: License Required
11-1-3: Application For License
11-1-4: Granting Of License
11-1-5: Amendment To License
11-1-6: Regulations
11-1-7: Relocation Or Removal When Required By Public Needs
11-1-8: Fee For Management Costs
11-1-9: Hold Harmless; Insurance; Bond
11-1-10: Failure To Secure, Renew Or Comply With License
11-1-11: Transfers And Assignments
11-1-12: Undergrounding
11-1-13: Notice
11-1-14: Construction Of Chapter
11-1-15: Police Regulations
11-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a different
intention, the following terms, for the purpose of this chapter, have the
meanings in this section:
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM: A facility and any related equipment, used for
furnishing communications services to the public for compensation, not
including a franchised cable television system.
MANAGEMENT COSTS: The reasonable costs the City actually incurs in managing
public rights-of-way.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, bridge, cartway, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk in which the local
government has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel
purposes and utility easements. A public right-of-way does not include the
airwaves above a public right-of-way with regard to cellular or other nonwire
telecommunications or broadcasts service or utility poles owned by the City.
(Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirement: No person may install, construct, reconstruct, repair or
operate a communications system upon, under, over or within any public right-
of-way in the City unless and until a written license is obtained pursuant to
this chapter. All such licenses are nonexclusive.
   B.   Exemption: A communications systems licensed by the City on the
effective date of this chapter is not subject to the licensing requirement of
this chapter until such time as the communications system's license expires but
is subject to all of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for a license must be on a form provided by the City Manager
and must include the following information:
   A.   The name, address, email address, and telephone number of the
applicant.
   B.   The name, address, email address, and telephone number of a responsible
person whom the City may notify or contact at any time concerning the
communications system.
   C.   An engineering site plan showing the proposed location of the
communications system, including any manholes or overhead poles, the size, type
and proposed depth of any conduit or other enclosures, and the relationship of
the communications system to all existing streets, sidewalks, poles, utilities
and other improvements within the public right-of-way.
   D.   Any additional information which the City Manager may reasonably
require. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-4: GRANTING OF LICENSE:
The City Manager will review each application and will grant each license which
the City Manager determines to be in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter and any other applicable legal requirements. In granting a license, the
City Manager may require that the applicant change the proposed location of the
communications system where necessary to avoid interference with other cables,
wires, conduits, pipes, sewers or other facilities placed within the public
right-of-way. The duration of the license is for a period of ten (10) years
from the date of the issuance of the license. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-5: AMENDMENT TO LICENSE:
In the event that a licensee with a current license proposes to expand or
relocate any portion of its communications system within public rights-of-way,
the licensee must file with the City Engineer a notice of intent to expand or
relocate its communications system. The notice must include relevant new
information of the type required in connection with the initial application for
a license. If the City Engineer determines that the expansion or relocation is
a material change in the communications system, the City Engineer must notify
the licensee in writing within ten (10) days after receipt of such notice from
the licensee that the notice will be considered and granted by the City Manager
in the same manner as an original license application. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-6: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Fee And Application: No license required under this chapter will be
granted for any communications system until the required fees have been paid,
and until a complete application has been filed with and approved by the City
Manager.
   B.   Installation Of System Pursuant To License: The communications system
must be installed or constructed in accordance with the terms of the license
granted by the City Manager.
   C.   As Built Survey Specifying Location Of System: Once the system is in
place, the licensee must file with the City Manager an as built survey
specifying the actual location of the system, including, but not limited to,
any manholes, overhead poles, or other equipment and the licensee must provide
such signs or other economically feasible means of locating the system as may
be reasonably required by the City Manager, including, in the case of
underground systems, a requirement that the licensee contract with a one call
locating service or similar locating service for inclusion of the system by the
service.
   D.   Permit To Work In The Public Right-Of-Way: If it becomes necessary to
dig into, excavate in or in any manner break up any public right-of-way in
connection with the installation, construction, reconstruction, repair,
operation, disconnection or removal of the system, the licensee must first
obtain a permit from the City to do so.
   E.   Technical Standards: All technical standards governing installation,
construction, reconstruction, repair, operation, disconnection and removal of a
communications system licensed hereunder must be in accordance with all
applicable Federal Communications Commission rules and other Federal, State and
City laws and regulations.
   F.   System Maintained In Good Condition And Repair: The licensee must
maintain all parts of the system in good condition, order and repair.
   G.   Responsibilities To Franchised Utilities Or Systems: The licensee is
responsible for repairing or reimbursing other licensed or franchised utilities
or communications systems for any damage to their property caused by the
negligence of the licensee, or its agents, employees or contractors, in
connection with the installation, construction, reconstruction, repair,
operation, disconnection or removal of the licensee's communications system.
   H.   Location Restriction, Public Use Space: No license required under this
chapter will be granted to authorize placement of a communications system in
any space which is required for public use.
   I.   Failure To Comply: Failure by the licensee to comply with any of the
requirements of the license or this chapter will constitute grounds for
termination of the license by the City. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-7: RELOCATION OR REMOVAL WHEN REQUIRED BY PUBLIC NEEDS:
   A.   Public Improvements: The licensee must, upon thirty (30) days' written
notice from the City and at no cost to the City, protect, support, or
temporarily or permanently disconnect, relocate within the same or other public
right-of-way, or remove any or all of its communications system when required
to do so by the City because of street or other public excavation,
construction, repair, grading or regrading; traffic conditions; installation of
sewers, drains, water pipes, or City owned power or signal lines; vacation or
relocation of public rights-of-way; installation or construction of any other
type of structure by the City or any other public agency; or any other type of
improvement which promotes the public health, safety or welfare.
   B.   Emergency Situation: If, at any time, in case of fire or disaster in
the City, it becomes necessary in the reasonable judgment of the City Manager
to cut or secure any of the wires, cables, amplifiers, appliances, or
appurtenances thereto of the licensee, such cutting or removing may be done and
any repairs rendered necessary thereby must be made by the licensee, at its
sole expense.
   C.   Moving Of Buildings: The licensee must, at the request of any person
holding a building moving permit, temporarily remove, raise, or lower its wires
to permit the moving of said building, provided the licensee has been given not
less than ten (10) working days' notice of such move. The reasonable cost of
such temporary removal, raising, or lowering of wires must be paid by the
person requesting the same, and the licensee must have the authority to require
such payment in advance. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-8: FEE FOR MANAGEMENT COSTS:
   A.   Fees Established; Computation: It is a term and condition of any
license issued pursuant to this chapter that, as part of the consideration
supporting the issuance of such license and the City's permission thereby to
occupy and use the public rights-of- way of the City, the licensee must pay to
the City an annual fee for management costs as established by the City Manager
which is due and payable at the time of filing of the initial license
application.
   B.   Systems Exempt From Fee For Management Costs: The following
communications systems are exempt from the fee for management costs
requirements:
      1.   Communications systems which pay to the City a franchise fee.
      2.   Cable television systems.
      3.   Communications systems exempt from payment of the fee for management
costs by agreement with the City.
   C.   Fee Payments Subject To Audit: The acceptance of any fee payment by the
City may not be construed as an acknowledgment that the amount paid is the
correct amount due, nor may such acceptance of payment be construed as a
release of any claim which the City may have for additional sums due and
payable. All fee payments are subject to audit by the City Manager and
assessment or refund if the payment is found to be in error. In the event that
such audit results in an assessment by, and an additional payment to, the City,
such additional payment will be due and payable immediately, together with
interest at the rate established by the City Manager calculated from the due
date for the fee in question.
   D.   Liability For Taxes: Nothing in this chapter may be construed to limit
the liability of the licensee for all applicable Federal, State and local
taxes. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-9: HOLD HARMLESS; INSURANCE; BOND:
It is a term and condition of any license issued pursuant to this chapter that,
as part of the consideration supporting the issuance of such license and the
City's permission thereby to occupy and use the public rights-of-way of the
City, the licensee assumes the following obligations:
   A.   Hold Harmless Agreement: The licensee must indemnify, protect, save and
hold harmless and defend the City from and against any and all liability,
losses and damages to property, or bodily injury or death to any person,
including payments made under workers' compensation laws, arising out of or in
any way connected with the installation, construction, reconstruction, repair,
operation, disconnection or removal of the licensee's licensed communications
system. The licensee must pay all reasonable expenses incurred by the City in
defending itself with regard to any of the aforementioned claims, including all
out of pocket expenses such as attorney fees and the value of any services
rendered by the City Legal Department or any other officers or employees of the
City. If any litigation on account of any such claims is commenced against the
City, and upon receipt by the licensee and written notice of such litigation
from the City, the licensee must defend the same at its own cost and expense.
The record of any judgment rendered against the City on account of such claims
is conclusive as against the licensee and entitles the City to recover the full
amount thereof with interest and costs and attorney fees incurred by the City.
The right of action therefor accrues to the City as soon as judgment is
rendered. The City must fully cooperate with the licensee's defense of any such
claim or action.
   B.   Liability Insurance: Immediately upon issuance of the required license,
the licensee must purchase general liability insurance as is required by the
City's standard Insurance Schedule A, as such schedule may from time to time be
amended. The licensee must maintain such insurance coverage for as long as the
licensed communications system remains in place within public rights-of- way.
   C.   Contractors' Insurance: The licensee's contractors or subcontractors
must provide insurance as required by City's current insurance schedule for
right-of-way licensees or permittees.
   D.   Bond:
      1.   Immediately upon issuance of the required license, the licensee must
file with the City Manager such bond as is required by the City Manager in
conformity with such written standards relative to the amount of the bond and
the qualifications of the surety as may be promulgated, and as may be amended
from time to time, by the City Manager with the approval of the City Attorney.
      2.   The purpose for such bond is to protect the City from any and all
damages and costs suffered or incurred by the City from any failure by the
licensee to restore all public rights-of-way and other public property affected
by the installation, construction, reconstruction, repair, operation or removal
of the licensed communications system to its proper condition in accordance
with City standards. Such bond must be maintained by the licensee for as long
as the system remains in place within public rights-of- way and thereafter
until the licensee has satisfied in full any and all obligations to the City
which arise out of the licensed communications system. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-10: FAILURE TO SECURE, RENEW OR COMPLY WITH LICENSE:
   A.   Failure To Obtain License Or Comply With Requirements: Any person who
fails to secure the license required under this chapter or any licensee who
fails to comply with the requirements of the license or this chapter or with
any other applicable legal requirements must, upon notification of such
violation by the City Manager, immediately act either to abate the violation or
to cause the licensee's communications system either to be removed or to be
disconnected and rendered inoperative.
   B.   City Right To Remove Or Disconnect: The City reserves the right either
to remove or to disconnect and render inoperative any communications system
used or maintained contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Removal Of System From Public Property: Upon demand of the City, upon
termination or revocation, the licensee must promptly, within ninety (90) days,
remove its system from public property. If the licensee fails to remove all its
properties from public property within the ninety (90) day removal period, the
City Manager may declare all such property of the licensee abandoned, and all
such property will become the property of the City, and the licensee further
agrees to execute and deliver an instrument in writing transferring its
ownership interest in any such property to the City. In lieu of declaring the
property abandoned, the City may cause the property to be removed, and such
costs of removal must be paid by the licensee. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-11: TRANSFERS AND ASSIGNMENTS:
The licensee may not transfer or assign all or any portion of its interest in
any license granted pursuant to this chapter without the prior written consent
of the City. For purposes of this section, a merger or corporate reorganization
will not be deemed a transfer or assignment. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-12: UNDERGROUNDING:
The licensee must place all its communications system underground when required
by the City Manager. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-13: NOTICE:
The City Manager must promptly send by certified mail with return receipt a
written notice advising each licensee or prospective licensee of any of the
following: a) action by the City Manager in granting or denying an application
for a license; or b) action required of the licensee by the City and/or
notification of failure to secure or comply with a license pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-14: CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER:
Nothing in this chapter may be construed as an acquiescence in, or ratification
of, the occupation of any of the public rights- of-way or public places of the
City by any person now occupying the same without legal right, nor may this
chapter be construed as conferring the right to occupy any of the public
rights-of-way or public places of the City upon any such person now illegally
or without authority occupying the same. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
11-1-15: POLICE REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter are subject to such reasonable regulations and
ordinances of a police nature as the City Council may from time to time deem
necessary to adopt, not destructive of the rights which may accrue to any
person under this chapter. (Ord. 39-17, 8-21-2017)
CHAPTER 2
CABLE RIGHT OF WAY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Title
11-2-2: Legislative Findings
11-2-3: Purposes
11-2-4: Rules Of Construction
11-2-5: Definitions
11-2-6: Authority
11-2-7: Reservation Of Rights; Police Power
11-2-8: Authorization Required
11-2-9: Construction Standards
11-2-10: Placement Of Facilities
11-2-11: Relocation Of Facilities
11-2-12: Restoration
11-2-13: Work Permits
11-2-14: Business License
11-2-15: Reimbursement Of Costs
11-2-16: Administration
11-2-17: Audits
11-2-18: Reports And Records
11-2-19: Bond Or Letter Of Credit
11-2-20: Insurance
11-2-21: Enforcement
11-2-22: Indemnification
11-2-23: Severability
11-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter is known and may be cited as the DUBUQUE CABLE RIGHT OF WAY
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-2: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS:
The city council hereby finds and declares:
   A.   That the public rights of way within the city can be partially occupied
by public utilities and other service entities for facilities used in the
delivery, conveyance, and transmission of services rendered for profit, to the
enhancement of the health, welfare, and general economic well being of the city
and its citizens;
   B.   That the public rights of way within the city are physically limited so
that proper management by the city is necessary to maximize the efficiency and
to minimize the costs to the taxpayers of the foregoing uses, to prevent
foreclosure of future uses through premature exhaustion of available right of
way capacity, and to minimize the inconvenience to the public from such
facilities' construction, emplacement, relocation, and maintenance in the
rights of way;
   C.   That the use of the public rights of way by multiple users renders more
pressing the city's right of way management responsibilities;
   D.   That the public rights of way within the city are valuable public
property acquired and maintained by the state and the city at great expense to
the taxpayers; and
   E.   That the right to occupy portions of such public rights of way for
limited times for the business of providing utility and cable services is a
valuable economic asset. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-3: PURPOSES:
The city council adopts this chapter to better:
   A.   Manage a limited resource to the long term benefit of the public;
   B.   Recover the costs of managing the public rights of way;
   C.   Minimize inconvenience to the public occasioned by the emplacement and
maintenance of facilities in the public rights of way;
   D.   Prevent premature exhaustion of capacity in the public rights of way to
accommodate communications and other services; and
   E.   Promote competition in the provision of communications service in the
city and ensure that citizens have a wide variety of services available to them
by establishing clear and consistent rules by which providers may occupy the
public rights of way. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-4: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense
include the future tense; words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number; and the
masculine gender includes the feminine gender.
   B.   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is permissive.
   C.   Unless otherwise specified, references to laws, ordinances or
regulations shall be interpreted broadly to cover government actions, however
nominated, and include laws, ordinances and regulations now in force or
hereinafter enacted or amended. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words, and
abbreviations shall have the meanings given herein, unless otherwise expressly
stated. Unless otherwise expressly stated, words not defined herein shall be
given the meanings set forth in title 47 of the United States Code, as amended,
and, if not defined therein, their common and ordinary meaning.
AFFILIATE: When used in relation to any person, means another person who de
facto or de jure owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is under
common ownership or control with, such person.
CITY: City of Dubuque, Iowa, and any agency, department, or agent thereof.
CITY MANAGER: The person appointed pursuant to section
1-7-4 of this code.
COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY OR COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM: Facilities for the provision
of "communications services", as that term is defined herein.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES: Telecommunications services, interactive computer
services, and any other services involving the transmission of information by
electronic or optical signals, except that it shall not include cable service
as that term is used in the cable communications policy act of 1984, as
amended.
COUNCIL: The principal governmental body of the city of Dubuque, Iowa, its
officers, or a representative person or entity as may be designated to act on
its behalf.
FACILITY OR FACILITIES: Any cable system and/or any tangible asset in the
public rights of way used to provide cable service.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION OR FCC: The federal communications commission
or any successor.
FRANCHISE: An authorization granted by the city to a person to construct,
maintain, or emplace facilities generally upon, across, beneath, and over the
public rights of way in the city, subject to the terms and conditions specified
in a franchise agreement.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: The contract entered into between the city and a grantee
that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the franchise may be
exercised.
GRANTEE: A person that has been granted a cable franchise by the city or is an
OVS operator in the city.
OWNER OR OPERATOR OF A FACILITY: Any person which has a possessory interest in
such facility or which controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement,
the management and operation of such facility.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint stock
company, trust, governmental entity, or any other legal entity, but not the
city.
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY: The surface and space above, on, and below any public
highway, avenue, street, lane, alley, boulevard, concourse, driveway, bridge,
tunnel, park, parkway, waterway, dock, bulkhead, wharf, pier, public easement,
or right of way within the city in which the city now or hereafter holds any
property interest which, consistent with the purposes for which it was
dedicated or otherwise acquired, may be used for the purpose of constructing,
operating, and maintaining a facility.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term has the meaning ascribed to it in 47 USC section
153(43).
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: This term has the meaning ascribed to it in 47 USC
section 153(46).
WORK PERMIT: An authorization issued by the city to enter upon the public
rights of way at specified times and places to erect, construct, emplace, or
otherwise work on facilities. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-6: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the city's powers, including, but not
limited to, those under title III, section 38A of the Iowa constitution and
section 364.2 of the Iowa Code. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-7: RESERVATION OF RIGHTS; POLICE POWER:
All rights and privileges granted in a franchise agreement are subject to the
police powers of the city and its rights under applicable laws and regulations
to exercise its governmental powers to their full extent and to regulate a
grantee and the construction, operation and maintenance of the grantee's cable
system, including, but not limited to, the right to adopt, amend, and enforce
ordinances and regulations as the city shall find necessary in the exercise of
its police powers, the right to adopt and enforce applicable zoning, building,
permitting and safety ordinances and regulations, the right to adopt and
enforce ordinances and regulations relating to equal employment opportunities,
and the right to adopt and enforce ordinances and regulations containing right
of way, telecommunications, utility and cable television consumer protection
and service standards and rate regulation provisions, except to the extent that
an exercise of such powers would impair the obligations of a grantee's
franchise agreement as prohibited by article I, section 10, clause 1 of the
U.S. constitution. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-8: AUTHORIZATION REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall install, erect, hang, lay, bury, draw, emplace,
construct, reconstruct, maintain, or operate any facility upon, across,
beneath, or over any public right of way in the city or other city property
without first obtaining from the city the necessary authorization (e.g., in the
case of a cable operator, a franchise) required under local, state or federal
law.
   B.   An owner or operator of facilities may be required to hold different
authorizations for its use of the public rights of way to provide different
services. For example, and without limitation, the owner or operator of
facilities that provides both cable service and telephone service must obtain
both a cable franchise and any authorization needed to provide telephony. (Ord.
29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-9: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Compliance With Regulations; Safety Practices: Construction, operation,
maintenance, and repair of facilities shall be in accordance with all
applicable law and regulation, and with sound industry practice. All safety
practices required by law shall be used during construction, maintenance, and
repair of facilities.
   B.   Excavations: No grantee or holder of any work permit for any facility
shall dig, trench, or otherwise excavate in the public rights of way without
complying with the provisions of the Iowa one call system, Iowa Code section
480.3 et seq., or its successor.
   C.   Prevention Of Failures And Accidents: An owner or operator shall at all
times employ at least ordinary care and shall install and maintain in use
commonly accepted methods and devices preventing failures and accidents that
are likely to cause damage, injury, or nuisance to the public.
   D.   Most Stringent Standards Apply: In the event of a conflict among codes
and standards, the most stringent code or standard shall apply (except insofar
as that standard, if followed, would result in a system that could not meet
requirements of federal, state or local law, or is expressly preempted by other
such standards).
   E.   Trimming Of Trees: A grantee shall have the authority to trim trees
that overhang public rights of way of the city so as to prevent the branches of
such trees from coming in contact with the facilities of the grantee, in a
manner subject to the approval of the city manager or designee. Notwithstanding
that grant of authority, if the grantee performs the work, it shall be fully
liable for any damages caused thereby, and shall be responsible for replacing
damaged trees and shrubs. Grantee shall be responsible for notifying abutting
property owners prior to trimming trees and shall obtain permission from the
city manager or the city manager's designee. At the option of the city, such
trimming may be done by the city.
   F.   Construction Schedule: Every owner or operator shall, at least forty
five (45) days prior to commencing significant construction activity (including
a significant rebuild, upgrade, or repair to existing facilities) upon, across,
beneath, or over any public right of way in the city or other city property,
provide to the city in writing the date on which the owner or operator
anticipates it will begin construction and the approximate length of time
required for such construction.
   G.   Coordination Of Construction With City: Prior to the erection,
construction, upgrade, or rebuild of any facilities in the public right of way,
the owner or operator of such facilities shall first submit to the city for
written approval, which shall not be unreasonably denied or delayed, a concise
description of the facilities proposed to be erected or installed, including
engineering drawings, if required by the city, together with maps and plans
indicating the proposed location of all such facilities. The owner or operator
shall provide the best information it has in such reasonable format as may be
specified by the city for the city's planning function. No such erection or
construction shall be commenced by any person until approval therefor has been
received from the city. At the time of such approval, the city shall inform the
grantee whether the reports and other information described by subsection 11-2-
18C1 of this chapter shall be required with respect to the approved
construction.
   H.   Coordination Of Construction With Third Parties: Developers or other
parties planning the construction or opening of streets in the city shall
provide reasonable notice to the city and to the owners or operators of
facilities subject to this chapter so that joint trenching and joint
emplacement of facilities may be conducted wherever practicable. Such owners
and operators shall similarly provide notice to each other and to any relevant
developers, for the same purpose. The city shall maintain a list of owners and
operators of facilities subject to this chapter for reference by other parties.
   I.   Contractors And Subcontractors: Any contractor or subcontractor used
for work or construction, installation, operation, maintenance, or repair of
facilities in the public rights of way must be properly licensed and insured
under laws of the state and all applicable local ordinances. Each contractor or
subcontractor shall have the same obligations with respect to its work as an
owner or operator of the facility would have if the work were performed by the
owner operator. An owner or operator shall be responsible for all activities
carried out by its contractors, subcontractors and employees at the owner's or
operator's request.
   J.   Publicizing Proposed Construction Work: The owner or operator of
facilities in the public rights of way shall notify the public prior to
commencing any construction, other than emergency repair work, that will
significantly disturb or disrupt public property or have the potential to
present a danger or affect the safety of the public generally. Written notice
of such construction work shall be delivered to the city at least one week
prior to commencement of that work. Notice shall be provided to those persons
most likely to be affected by the work in at least two (2) of the following
ways: by telephone, in person, by mail, by distribution of flyers to
residences, by publication in local newspapers, or in any other manner
reasonably calculated to provide adequate notice. If an owner or operator must
enter a building or other structure, it must schedule an appointment at the
reasonable convenience of the owner or resident. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-10: PLACEMENT OF FACILITIES:
   A.   All facilities shall be installed and located to minimize interference
with the rights and convenience of other property owners.
   B.   An owner or operator of a facility shall not place facilities,
equipment, or fixtures where they will interfere with any other facilities, or
obstruct or hinder in any manner the various utilities serving the residents of
the city or their use of any public rights of way.
   C.   The city may reasonably direct the specific placement of facilities to
ensure that users of the public rights of way do not interfere with each other
and that the public rights of way are used safely and efficiently.
   D.   Every grantee that ceases operating or maintaining any facility shall,
upon written request of the city within two (2) years or the cessation or
maintenance of such facility, promptly remove it. Should the grantee neglect,
refuse, or fail to remove such facility, the city may remove the facility at
the expense of the grantee. The obligation to remove shall survive the
termination of the franchise or license for a period of two (2) years and shall
be bonded.
   E.   No owner or operator of a facility shall erect new aerial plant, other
than to repair existing plant, in or on a public right of way in which both
electric and telephone service providers have placed their lines underground,
or in an area which the city has by ordinance forbidden new aerial plant to be
constructed or existing aerial plant to be maintained.
   F.   If at any time the city determines that existing wires, cables or other
like facilities of public utilities anywhere in the city shall be changed from
an overhead to underground installation, the owner or operator of a facility
shall, at the owner's or operator's sole expense, convert its system in that
location to an underground installation.
   G.   A grantee shall use, with the owner's permission, existing poles,
conduits and other facilities whenever feasible. A grantee may not erect poles,
conduits, or other facilities in public rights of way without the express
permission of the city. Copies of agreements for use of conduits or other
facilities shall be filed with the city upon city request.
   H.   To the extent practicable, aboveground equipment placed on private
property shall be placed at the location requested by the property owner. An
owner or operator shall provide affected homeowners with at least ten (10)
days' advance written notice of its plans to install such equipment, and shall
make reasonable efforts to confer with such homeowners before any work is done.
   I.   Whenever aboveground equipment is placed on private property, the
grantee shall provide landscaping camouflage reasonably acceptable to the
property owner, at the grantee's expense. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-11: RELOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   The owner or operator of a facility on or within the public rights of
way shall, at its own expense, upon written notice from the city reasonably in
advance, promptly relocate any facility located on or within the public rights
of way as the city may deem necessary or appropriate to facilitate the
realignment, reconstruction, improvement or repair of public streets,
sidewalks, curbs, drains, sewers, and public improvements of any sort;
provided, however, that an operator may be permitted to abandon any property in
place with the written consent of the city.
   B.   If any removal, relaying, or relocation is required to accommodate the
construction, operation, or repair of the facilities of another person that is
authorized to use the public rights of way, an owner or operator of a facility
shall, upon thirty (30) days' advance written notice, take action to effect the
necessary changes requested by the responsible entity. The city may resolve
disputes as to responsibility for costs associated with the removal, relaying,
or relocation of facilities as among entities authorized to install facilities
in the public rights of way, if the parties are unable to do so themselves, and
if the matter is not governed by a valid contract between the parties or a
state or federal law or regulation.
   C.   In the event of an emergency, or where a facility creates or is
contributing to an imminent danger to health, safety, or property, the city may
remove, relay, or relocate any or all parts of that communications system
without prior notice. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-12: RESTORATION:
   A.   If an owner or operator of a facility disturbs a pavement, sidewalk,
driveway or other surfacing, or landscaping, or other structure, either on
private property or in public rights of way, the owner or operator shall, in a
manner approved by the city, replace and restore all pavement, sidewalk,
driveway or other surfacing, or landscaping disturbed, in substantially the
same condition and in a good, workmanlike, timely manner, in accordance with
any standards for such work set by the city. Such restoration shall be
undertaken within no more than ten (10) days after the damage is incurred,
weather permitting, and shall be completed as soon as reasonably possible
thereafter. The owner or operator shall guarantee and maintain such restoration
for at least one year against defective materials or workmanship.
   B.   In the event an owner or operator of a facility fails to complete any
work required for the protection or restoration of the public rights of way, or
any other work required by city law or ordinance, within the time specified by
and to the reasonable satisfaction of the city, the city, following notice and
an opportunity to cure, may cause such work to be done, and the owner or
operator of a facility shall reimburse the city the cost thereof within thirty
(30) days after receipt of an itemized list of such costs; or the city may
recover such costs through the security fund provided by an owner or operator
of a facility, pursuant to the procedures for recovery from the security fund
specified in the owner's or operator's franchise agreement.
   C.   Any and all public rights of way, public property, or private property
that is disturbed or damaged during the construction, repair, replacement,
relocation, operation, maintenance, or reconstruction of a system shall be
promptly repaired by the owner or operator of a facility. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-
2005)
11-2-13: WORK PERMITS:
   A.   No person shall install, erect, hang, lay, bury, draw, emplace,
construct, or reconstruct any facility upon, across, beneath, or over any
public right of way in the city, or enter into the public rights of way to work
on a facility, other than routine repair or maintenance, without first
obtaining a work permit therefor from the city manager or the city manager's
designee pursuant to subsection 10-2-1A of this code. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, under no provision in this chapter shall any work permit or other
approval from the city be required to install, construct, repair, maintain or
replace any service drop.
   B.   A franchise under this chapter shall not render unnecessary or take the
place of such work permits. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-14: BUSINESS LICENSE:
A franchise under this chapter does not render unnecessary or take the place of
any generally applicable business license that may be required by the city for
the privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within the city
generally. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-15: REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS:
All grantees will reimburse the city for its internal and out of pocket costs,
including, but not limited to, attorney and consultant fees actually and
reasonably incurred by the city in connection with an application for an
initial franchise under this chapter as determined by the city after it takes
action on the application. Any application fee submitted with the application
will be credited against this amount. The applicant will remit to the city
payment for such costs within thirty (30) days of its receipt of the city's
invoice. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-16: ADMINISTRATION:
The city manager or his or her designee shall:
   A.   Collect any applicable fees from all owners or operators of facilities
using public rights of way in the city;
   B.   Audit any franchise fees or payments owed to the city;
   C.   Publish from time to time a schedule of application and hearing fees,
which shall be designed to recover the city's costs in processing applications
hereunder and may provide specially for hearing fees in those cases where
hearings are required;
   D.   Be responsible for the continuing enforcement of all terms and
conditions of franchises under this chapter. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-17: AUDITS:
Each owner and operator of facilities in the public rights of way shall
maintain books, records, and plant accounts sufficient to document its
obligations for any fee or payment owed pursuant to this code. Such books,
records, and accounts shall be maintained and available for inspection for a
period of four (4) years; provided, however, that such books, records, and
accounts shall be maintained and available during the continuation of any audit
by or on behalf of the city commenced during such four (4) year period or
during any dispute or litigation with respect thereto. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-18: REPORTS AND RECORDS:
   A.   Open Books And Records:
      1.   The city shall have the right to inspect and analyze at any time
during normal business hours at the nearest office of an owner or operator of
facilities, or, if such office is not in the city, then at such other location
in the city as the city may reasonably designate, all books, receipts, maps,
records, codes, programs, and disks or other storage media and other like
material reasonably appropriate in order to monitor compliance with the terms
of this chapter or applicable law, where the owner or operator shall have the
burden of showing that such materials are not reasonably appropriate. This
includes not only the books and records directly relevant to enforcement of
this chapter or the owner's or operator's franchise agreement that are held by
the operator, but any books and records held by an affiliate, or any
contractor, subcontractor or any person holding any form of management contract
for the facilities in the public rights of way to the extent such books or
records relate to the facilities. An owner or operator is responsible for
collecting the information and producing it at a location as specified above.
The city shall provide the owner or operator with advance notice stating the
types of records sought to be reviewed and the reason for such review.
      2.   Access to an owner's or operator's records shall not be denied on
the basis that said records contain "proprietary" information. Any confidential
information received by the city shall remain confidential insofar as permitted
by the Iowa open records act, Iowa Code chapter 22, and other applicable state
and federal law.
   B.   Annual Report: Unless this requirement is waived in whole or in part in
writing by the city, no later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the end
of its fiscal year, each owner or operator of facilities in the public rights
of way shall submit a written report to the city, in a form directed by the
city, which shall include:
      1.   An organizational chart showing all corporations or partnerships
with more than a five percent (5%) ownership interest in the owner or operator,
and the nature of that ownership interest (limited partner, general partner,
preferred shareholder, etc.) and showing the same information for each
corporation or partnership that holds such an interest in the corporations or
partnerships so identified, and so on, until the ultimate corporate and
partnership interests are identified.
      2.   Detailed, updated maps depicting the location of all facilities
located in public rights of way in the city.
   C.   Special Reports: Unless this requirement is waived in whole or in part
by the city, the owner or operator of facilities in the public rights of way
shall deliver the following special reports to the city:
      1.   An owner or operator shall submit monthly construction reports to
the city for any major construction undertaken in the public rights of way
until such construction is complete. The owner or operator must submit updated
as built system design maps to the city, or make them available for inspection,
with notice of their availability, within thirty (30) days of the completion of
system construction in any geographic area. These maps shall be developed on
the basis of postconstruction inspection by the owner or operator and
construction personnel. Any departures from design must be indicated on the as
built maps.
      2.   An owner or operator must submit a copy and brief explanation of any
request for protection under bankruptcy laws, or any judgment related to a
declaration of bankruptcy by the owner or operator or by any partnership or
corporation that owns or controls the owner or operator directly or indirectly.
   D.   Records Required: An owner or operator of facilities in the public
rights of way shall at all times maintain:
      1.   A full and complete set of plans, records, and "as built" maps
showing the exact location of all equipment installed or in use in the city,
exclusive of customer service drops.
      2.   A file showing its plan and timetable for future major construction
of the facilities.
   E.   Voluminous Materials: If any books, records, maps or plans, or other
requested documents are too voluminous, or for security reasons cannot be
copied and moved, then an owner or operator of facilities in the public rights
of way may request that the inspection take place at some other location;
provided, that: 1) the owner or operator must make necessary arrangements for
copying documents selected by the city after review; and 2) the owner or
operator must pay all travel and additional copying expenses incurred by the
city in inspecting those documents or having those documents inspected by its
designee, as charges incidental to the enforcing of the owner's or operator's
franchise or other authorization for use of the public rights of way. (Ord. 29-
05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-19: BOND OR LETTER OF CREDIT:
No person shall install, erect, hang, lay, bury, draw, emplace, construct,
reconstruct, maintain, or operate any facility upon, across, beneath, or over
any public right of way in the city or other city property until the owner or
operator shall have filed with the city manager a bond and/or letter of credit,
in a form acceptable to the city, running in favor of the city, to guarantee
the obligations of the owner or operator under this chapter and applicable law.
The amount of the bond or letter of credit shall be no less than the reasonable
cost of removal of the facilities and restoration of any affected public rights
of way or other property pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-20: INSURANCE:
An owner or operator shall maintain insurance covering its facilities and
operations in the public rights of way, as specified in a specific provision of
this chapter or in its franchise agreement. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-21: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Penalties: For violation of provisions of this chapter or its franchise
under this chapter, including, but not limited to, the following, penalties
shall be assessable against an owner or operator and shall be chargeable to its
performance bond and/or letter of credit in any amount up to the limits
specified in section
1-10-2 of this code, at the city's discretion:
      1.   For failure to supply information, reports, or filings lawfully
required under applicable law or agreements;
      2.   For failure to render payments due under this chapter any applicable
agreement or applicable law;
      3.   For failure to file, obtain or maintain any required performance
bond or letter of credit in a timely fashion;
      4.   For failure to restore damaged property.
   B.   Injunctive Relief: In addition to any other remedies hereunder, the
city may seek an injunction to mitigate or terminate a violation, or employ any
other remedy available at law or equity, including, but not limited to,
imposition of penalties pursuant to subsection A of this section.
   C.   Timely Performance Or Compliance: Any failure of the city to insist on
timely performance or compliance by any person shall not constitute a waiver of
the city's right to later insist on timely performance or compliance by that
person or any other person.
   D.   Termination On Account Of Certain Assignments Or Appointments:
      1.   To the extent not prohibited by the United States bankruptcy code, a
franchise under this chapter shall terminate automatically by force of law one
hundred twenty (120) calendar days after an assignment for the benefit of
creditors or the appointment of a receiver or trustee (including a debtor in
possession in a reorganization) to take over the business of the owner or
operator, whether in bankruptcy or under a state law proceeding; provided,
however, that such franchise shall not so terminate if, within that one hundred
twenty (120) day period:
         a.   Such assignment, receivership or trusteeship has been vacated; or
         b.   Such assignee, receiver, or trustee has cured any defaults and
has fully complied with the terms and conditions of this chapter and any
applicable agreement and has executed an agreement, approved by any court
having jurisdiction, under which it assumes and agrees to be bound by the terms
and conditions of this chapter and any applicable agreement.
         c.   In the event of foreclosure or other judicial sale of any of the
facilities, equipment, or property of an owner or operator of facilities in the
public rights of way, its franchise under this chapter shall automatically
terminate thirty (30) calendar days after such foreclosure or sale, unless:
            (1)   The city has approved a transfer to the successful bidder;
and
            (2)   The successful bidder has covenanted and agreed with the city
to assume and be bound by the terms and conditions binding its predecessor.
         d.   Any mortgage, pledge or lease of facilities in the public rights
of way shall be subject and subordinate to the rights of the city under this
chapter any applicable agreement, and other applicable law.
      2.   If a franchise under this chapter is terminated for any reason, the
city may, at its discretion, require the grantee to remove its facilities from
the public rights of way and to restore the public rights of way to their prior
condition at the owner's or operator's expense, or that of their sureties. If
an owner or operator whose franchise has been terminated fails, after
reasonable notice from the city, to remove its facilities from the public
rights of way, such facilities shall be deemed abandoned and ownership
forfeited to the city.
   E.   Remedies Cumulative: All remedies specified in this chapter are
cumulative unless otherwise expressly stated. The exercise of one remedy shall
not foreclose use of another, nor shall the exercise of a remedy or the payment
of liquidated damages or penalties relieve an operator of its obligations to
comply with this chapter. In exercising any remedy specified in this chapter,
including articles A and B, the city shall comply with any substantive and
procedural requirements for exercising such remedies in an owner's or
operator's franchise agreement or other authorization.
   F.   Time Limit For Paying Penalty: The owner or operator shall pay any
penalty assessed in accordance with this section within fourteen (14) days
after receipt of notice from the city of such penalty.
   G.   Reduce Or Waive Penalties: The city may reduce or waive any of the
above listed penalties for good cause shown. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-22: INDEMNIFICATION:
Any indemnity provided pursuant to a franchise agreement or other authorization
shall include, but not be limited to, the city's reasonable attorney fees
incurred in defending against any such claim, suit, or proceeding. Recovery by
the city of any amounts under insurance, the performance bond or letter of
credit, or otherwise shall not limit in any way a person's duty to indemnify
the city, nor shall such recovery relieve a person of its obligations pursuant
to a franchise under this chapter limit the amounts owed to the city, or in any
respect prevent the city from exercising any other right or remedy it may have.
(Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2-23: SEVERABILITY:
If any term, condition, or provision of this chapter shall, to any extent, be
held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder hereof shall be valid in all
other respects and continue to be effective. In the event of a subsequent
change in applicable law so that the provision which had been held invalid is
no longer invalid, said provision shall thereupon return to full force and
effect without further action by the city and shall thereafter be binding on
owners and operators. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
ARTICLE A. CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
SECTION:
11-2A-1: Title
11-2A-2: Further Findings And Purpose
11-2A-3: Goals
11-2A-4: Intent
11-2A-5: Delegation Of Powers
11-2A-6: Definitions
11-2A-7: Grant Of Franchise
11-2A-8: Construction Standards
11-2A-9: Use Of Public Property
11-2A-10: Interference With Public Projects
11-2A-11: Consumer Protection
11-2A-12: Rate Regulation
11-2A-13: Franchise Fee
11-2A-14: System Tests And Inspections
11-2A-15: Insurance
11-2A-16: Reports And Records; Cable
11-2A-17: Performance Guarantees And Penalties
11-2A-18: Transfers
11-2A-19: Rights Of Individuals Protected
11-2A-20: Recourse Against City Limited
11-2A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the CITY CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
REGULATORY CODE. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-2: FURTHER FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The city finds that the further development of cable communications may
result in great benefits for the people of the city. Cable technology is
rapidly changing, and cable plays an essential role as part of the city's basic
infrastructure. Cable television systems permanently occupy and extensively
make use of scarce and valuable public rights of way, in a manner different
from the way in which the general public uses them, and in a manner reserved
primarily for those who provide essential services to the public subject to
special public interest obligations, such as utility companies. The grant of a
franchise has the effect of giving the holder extensive economic benefits and
placing the holder in a position of public trust. The city finds that public
convenience, safety, and general welfare can best be served by establishing
regulatory powers vested in the city or such persons as the city so designates
to protect the public and to ensure that any franchise granted is operated in
the public interest.
   B.   Further, it is recognized that cable systems have the capacity to
provide not only entertainment and information services to the city's
residents, but can provide a variety of broadband, interactive communications
services to institutions and individuals. Many of these services involve city
agencies and other public institutions. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-3: GOALS:
In light of the provisions of section
11-2A-2 of this article, the following goals, among others, underlie the
provisions set forth in this article:
   A.   Cable should be available to as many city residents and businesses as
possible.
   B.   A cable system should be capable of accommodating both present and
reasonably foreseeable future cable related needs of the city.
   C.   A cable system should be constructed and maintained during a franchise
term so that changes in technology may be integrated to the maximum extent
commercially practicable into existing system facilities.
   D.   A cable system should be responsive to the needs and interests of the
local community, and shall provide the widest possible diversity of information
sources and service to the public.
   E.   A cable operator should pay fair compensation to the city for the
occupation and use of scarce and valuable local public rights of way. (Ord. 29-
05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-4: INTENT:
The city intends that all provisions set forth in this article be construed to
serve the public interest and the foregoing public purposes, and that any
franchise issued pursuant to this article be construed to include the foregoing
findings and public purposes as integral parts thereof. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-5: DELEGATION OF POWERS:
The city may delegate the performance of any act, duty, or obligation, or the
exercise of any power, under this article or any franchise agreement to any
employee, officer, department or agency of the city, except where prohibited by
applicable law. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-6: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESS CHANNEL: Any channel on a cable system set aside by a grantee for
public, educational, or governmental use.
BASIC SERVICE: That cable service tier which includes all signals of domestic
television broadcast stations provided to any subscriber (except a signal
secondarily transmitted by satellite carrier beyond the local service area of
such station, regardless of how such signal is ultimately received by the cable
system); any public, educational, and governmental programming required by the
franchise to be carried on the basic tier; and any additional video programming
signals added to the basic tier by the cable operator.
CABLE ACT: The cable communications policy act of 1984, 47 USC section 521 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
CABLE OPERATOR: Any person or group of persons: a) who provides cable service
over a cable system and directly or through one or more affiliates owns a
significant interest in a substantial portion of such cable system; or b) who
otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement, the
management and operation of such a cable system.
CABLE SERVICE: A. The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming
or other programming service; and
   B.   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or
use of such video programming or other programming service.
CABLE SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: A facility consisting of a set of closed transmission
paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment that
is designed to provide cable television service which includes video
programming and which is provided to multiple subscribers within the city, but
such term does not include: a) a facility that serves only to retransmit the
television signals of one or more television broadcast stations; b) a facility
that serves subscribers without using any public rights of way and without
connecting to a facility that uses any public rights of way; c) a facility of a
common carrier which is subject, in whole or in part, to the provisions of
title II of the communications act, except that such facility shall be
considered a cable system if such facility is used in the transmission of video
programming directly to subscribers; d) an open video system that complies with
47 USC section 573; or e) any facilities of any electric utility used solely
for operating its electric utility system.
CONVERTER: An electronic device which may serve as an interface between a
system and a subscriber's television receiver or other terminal equipment, and
which may perform a variety of functions, including signal security,
descrambling, electronic polling, frequency conversion and channel selection.
EDUCATIONAL ACCESS CHANNEL OR EDUCATIONAL CHANNEL: Any channel on a cable
system set aside by a grantee for educational use.
FRANCHISE AREA: The area of the city that a grantee is authorized to serve by
its franchise agreement.
GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS CHANNEL OR GOVERNMENTAL CHANNEL: Any channel on a cable
system set aside by a grantee for government use.
INSTALLATION: The connection of system services to subscribers' television
receivers or other subscriber owned or subscriber provided terminal equipment.
NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS: Those hours during which most similar businesses in the
community are open to serve customers, including some evening hours at least
one night per week and/or some weekend hours.
NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS: Those service conditions that are within the
control of a grantee. Conditions that are not within the control of a grantee
include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil disturbances, power
outages, and telephone network outages. Conditions that are within the control
of a grantee include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay per view
events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and
maintenance or upgrade of a cable system.
PROGRAMMER: Any person or entity that produces or otherwise provides program
material or information for transmission by video, audio, digital or other
signals, either live or from recorded traces or other storage media, to users
or subscribers by means of a cable system.
PUBLIC ACCESS CHANNEL: Any channel on a cable system set aside by a grantee for
use by the general public, including groups and individuals, and which is
available for such use on a nondiscriminatory basis.
SCHOOL: Any primary or secondary school or college accredited by the state of
Iowa, including, without limitation, all accredited postsecondary institutions
such as community colleges, technical colleges and universities.
SECURITY FUND: A performance bond, letter of credit, or cash deposit, or any or
all of these, to the extent applicable to a given grantee.
SERVICE INTERRUPTION: Loss of picture or sound on one or more channels, or
degradation of picture or sound beyond permissible levels as defined by
applicable law.
SUBSCRIBER: The city or any person who is lawfully receiving, for any purpose
or reason, any cable service via a cable system, whether or not a fee is paid
for such service.
TRANSFER: Any transaction in which: a) there is any change in control of the
grantee; or b) the rights and/or obligations held by the grantee under the
franchise are transferred, directly or indirectly, to another party; or c) any
change or substitution occurs in the managing general partners of the grantee,
where applicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, transfers or changes of
control between affiliates under common ownership or control shall not
constitute a "transfer"; provided, that the ultimate parent of the grantee
executes and delivers a guarantee of the grantee's performance under this
article and its franchise agreement in substantially the form attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, pledges in trust or
mortgages of the assets of a cable system to secure the construction,
operation, or repair of the system may be made without application and without
city's prior consent. However, no such arrangement shall be made if it would in
any respect under any condition: a) prevent the grantee or any successor from
complying with this article, franchise agreement or other applicable law or
regulation; or b) permit a third party to succeed to the interest of the
operator, or to own or control the system, without the prior consent of city.
Any mortgage, pledge or lease shall be subject to and subordinate to the rights
of city under any franchise, this title, or other applicable law.
   A.   "Control" for purposes of this definition means the legal or practical
ability to exert actual working control over the affairs of an entity, either
directly or indirectly, whether by contractual agreement, majority ownership
interest, any lesser ownership interest, or in any other manner.
   B.   A rebuttable presumption that a transfer of control has occurred shall
arise upon the acquisition or accumulation of five percent (5%) or more of the
ownership (as measured by voting interests, not number of shares) of an entity
by any person or group of persons acting in concert, none of whom already own
or control fifty percent (50%) or more of such right or control, singularly or
collectively.
   C.   A grantee is responsible for ensuring that the intent of section
11-2A-18 of this article is carried out. If for any reason an event occurs that
would require the city's approval under section
11-2A-18 of this article, whether or not such event is directly or indirectly
within the grantee's control, such event shall constitute a "transfer" for
purposes of this article and any applicable law.
USER: A person or organization using a channel or equipment and facilities for
purposes of producing or transmitting material, as contrasted with the receipt
thereof in the capacity of a subscriber. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-7: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Grant:
      1.   The city may grant one or more cable franchises, and each such
franchise shall be awarded in accordance with and subject to the provisions of
this article.
      2.   This article may be amended from time to time, and in no event shall
this article be considered a contract between the city and a grantee such that
the city would be prohibited from amending any provision hereof.
      3.   No person may construct or operate a cable system in the city
without a franchise granted by the city. No person may be granted a franchise
without having entered into a franchise agreement with the city pursuant to
this article.
   B.   Term Of Franchise: No franchise shall be granted for a period of more
than fifteen (15) years, except that a grantee may apply for renewal or
extension pursuant to applicable law.
   C.   Franchise Characteristics:
      1.   A franchise authorizes use of public rights of way for installing
cables, wires, lines, optical fiber, underground conduit, and other devices
necessary and appurtenant to the operation of a cable system to provide cable
service within a franchise area, but does not expressly or implicitly authorize
a grantee to provide service to, or install a cable system on, private property
without owner consent (except for use of compatible easements pursuant to
section 621 of the cable act, 47 USC section 541(a)(2)), or to use publicly or
privately owned conduits without a separate agreement with the owners.
      2.   A franchise shall constitute both a right and an obligation to
provide the cable services regulated by the provisions of this article and the
franchise agreement.
      3.   A franchise is nonexclusive and will not explicitly or implicitly
preclude the issuance of other franchises to operate cable systems within the
city; affect the city's right to authorize use of public rights of way by other
persons to operate cable systems or for other purposes as it determines
appropriate; or affect the city's right to itself construct, operate, or
maintain a cable system, with or without a franchise, subject to applicable
state and federal law.
      4.   All privileges prescribed by a franchise shall be subordinate to
(without limitation) the city's use of the public rights of way for purposes
that do not directly or indirectly compete with the grantee and to any prior
lawful occupancy of the public rights of way.
      5.   No reference herein, or in any franchise agreement, to "public
rights of way" shall be deemed to be a representation or guarantee by the city
that its interest or other right to control the use of such property is
sufficient to permit its use for such purposes, and a grantee shall be deemed
to gain only those rights to use as are properly in the city and as the city
may have the undisputed right and power to give.
   D.   Grantee Subject To Other Laws, Police Power:
      1.   A grantee shall at all times be subject to and shall comply with all
applicable federal, state, and local laws. A grantee shall at all times be
subject to all lawful exercise of the police power and any other lawful
authority of the city, including, without limitation, all rights the city may
have under 47 USC section 552. Nothing in a franchise agreement shall be deemed
to waive the requirements of the various codes and ordinances of the city
regarding permits, zoning, fees to be paid, or manner of construction,
installation, operation, maintenance, or repair of system equipment.
      2.   No course of dealing between a grantee and the city, or any delay on
the part of the city in exercising any rights hereunder, or any acquiescence by
the city in the actions of a grantee that are in contravention of such rights
(except to the extent such rights are expressly waived by the city) shall
operate as a waiver of any such rights of the city.
      3.   The city shall have the maximum authority to regulate cable systems,
grantees, and franchises as may now or hereafter be lawfully permissible;
except where rights are expressly waived by a franchise agreement, they are
reserved, whether expressly enumerated or not.
      4.   The city may, from time to time, issue such reasonable rules and
regulations concerning cable systems as are consistent with applicable law and
section
11-2-7 of this chapter.
   E.   Eminent Domain: Nothing herein shall be deemed or construed to impair
or affect, in any way or to any extent, the city's right of eminent domain to
the extent to which they may apply to any cable system.
   F.   Applications For Initial Grant Or Modification Of Franchise:
      1.   Application Required:
         a.   A written application shall be filed with the city for grant of
an initial franchise or modification of a franchise agreement pursuant to 47
USC section 545.
         b.   To be acceptable for filing, a signed original of the application
shall be submitted together with twelve (12) copies. The application must be
accompanied by any required application filing fee, conform to any applicable
request for proposals, and contain all required information. All applications
shall include the names and addresses of persons authorized to act on behalf of
all applicants with respect to the application.
         c.   All applications accepted for filing shall be made available by
the city for public inspection.
      2.   Application For Grant Of An Initial Franchise:
         a.   A person may apply for an initial franchise by submitting an
application containing the information required in subsection F3 of this
section. Upon receipt of such an application, the city may either: 1) evaluate
the application pursuant to subsection F2c of this section, conducting such
investigations as it deems necessary; or 2) issue a request for proposal (RFP),
after conducting, if necessary, a proceeding to identify the future cable
related needs and interests of the community. Any such RFP shall be mailed to
the person requesting its issuance and made available to any other interested
party. The RFP may contain a proposed franchise agreement.
         b.   An applicant shall respond to an RFP by filing an application
within the time directed by the city, delivering a copy to each existing
grantee and providing the information and material set forth in subsection F3
of this section. The procedures, instructions, and requirements set forth in
the RFP shall be followed by each applicant. Any applicant that has already
filed materials pursuant to subsection F2a of this section need not refile the
same materials with its RFP response, but must amplify its application to
include any additional or different materials required by the RFP. The city or
its designee may seek additional information from any applicant and establish
deadlines for the submission of such information.
         c.   In evaluating an application for a franchise, the city shall
consider, among other things, the following factors:
            (1)   The extent to which the applicant has substantially complied
with the applicable law and the material terms of any existing cable franchise
for the city;
            (2)   Whether the quality of the applicant's service under any
existing franchise in the city, including signal quality, response to customer
complaints, billing practices, and the like, has been reasonable in light of
the needs and interests of the communities served;
            (3)   Whether the applicant has the financial, technical, and legal
qualifications to provide cable service;
            (4)   Whether the application satisfies any minimum requirements
established by the city and is otherwise reasonable to meet the future cable
related needs and interests of the community, taking into account the cost of
meeting such needs and interests;
            (5)   Whether the application satisfies any requirements under
applicable state or federal law governing the issuance of additional
franchises;
            (6)   Whether, to the extent not considered under subsection F2c(4)
of this section, the applicant will provide adequate public, educational, and
governmental access channel capacity, facilities, or financial support;
            (7)   Whether issuance of a franchise is warranted in the public
interest considering the immediate and future effect on the public rights of
way and private property that would be used by the cable system, including the
extent to which installation or maintenance as planned would require
replacement of property or involve disruption of property, public services, or
use of the public rights of way; the effect of granting a franchise on the
ability of cable to meet the cable related needs and interests of the
community;
            (8)   What effects a grant of the application may have on
competition in the delivery of cable service in the city.
         d.   If the city finds that it is in the public interest to issue a
franchise considering the factors set forth above, and subject to the
applicant's entry into an appropriate franchise agreement, it shall issue a
franchise. If the city denies a franchise, it will issue a written decision
explaining why the franchise was denied. Prior to deciding whether or not to
issue a franchise, the city may hold one or more public hearings or implement
other procedures under which comments from the public on an application may be
received. The city also may grant or deny a request for a franchise based on
its review of an application without further proceedings and may reject any
application that is incomplete or fails to respond to an RFP. This article is
not intended and shall not be interpreted to grant any applicant or existing
grantee standing to challenge the denial of its application or the issuance of
a franchise to another; however, an existing grantee shall be deemed an
interested party for purposes of subsection J of this section.
      3.   Contents Of Application: An RFP for the grant of an initial
franchise shall require, and any such application shall contain, at a minimum,
the following information:
         a.   Name and address of the applicant and identification of the
ownership and control of the applicant, including: the names and addresses of
the ten (10) largest holders of an ownership interest in the applicant and
affiliates of the applicant, and all persons with five percent (5%) or more
ownership interest in the applicant and its affiliates; the persons who control
the applicant and its affiliates; all officers and directors of the applicant
and its affiliates; and any other business affiliation and cable system
ownership interest of each named person.
         b.   A demonstration of the applicant's technical ability to construct
and/or operate the proposed cable system, including identification of key
personnel.
         c.   A demonstration of the applicant's legal qualifications to
construct and/or operate the proposed cable system, including, but not limited
to, a demonstration that the applicant meets the following criteria:
            (1)   The applicant must have the necessary authority under Iowa
law to operate a cable system.
            (2)   The applicant must have the necessary authority under federal
law to hold the franchise and operate a cable system. An applicant must have,
or show that it is qualified to obtain, any necessary federal franchises or
waivers required to operate the system proposed.
         d.   A demonstration of the applicant's financial ability to complete
the construction and operation of the cable system proposed.
         e.   A description of the applicant's prior experience in cable system
ownership, construction, and operation, and identification of communities in
which the applicant or any of its principals have, or have had, a cable
franchise or any interest therein.
         f.   Identification of the area of the city to be served by the
proposed cable system, including a description of the proposed franchise area's
boundaries. In no event, however, shall the mandatory area of universal service
required be less than that of any existing grantee.
         g.   A detailed description of the physical facilities proposed,
including channel capacity, technical design, performance characteristics,
headend, and access facilities.
         h.   Where applicable, a description of the construction of the
proposed system, including an estimate of plant mileage and its location; the
proposed construction schedule; a description, where appropriate, of how
services will be converted from existing facilities to new facilities; and
information on the availability of space in conduits including, where
appropriate, an estimate of the cost of any necessary rearrangement of existing
facilities.
         i.   A demonstration of how the applicant will reasonably meet the
future cable related needs and interests of the community, including
descriptions of how the applicant will meet the needs described in any recent
community needs assessment conducted by or for the city, and how the applicant
will provide adequate public, educational, and governmental access channel
capacity, facilities, or financial support to meet the community's needs and
interests.
         j.   Pro forma financial projections for the proposed franchise term,
including a statement of projected income, and a schedule of planned capital
expenditures, with all significant assumptions explained in notes or supporting
schedules.
         k.   If the applicant proposes to provide cable service to an area
already served by an existing cable grantee, the identification of the area
where the overbuild would occur and the ability of the public rights of way and
other property that would be used by the applicant to accommodate an additional
system.
         l.   Any other information that may be reasonably necessary to
demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this article.
         m.   Any additional information that the city may have requested of an
applicant that is relevant to the city's consideration of the application.
         n.   An affidavit or declaration of the applicant or authorized
officer certifying the truth and accuracy of the information in the
application, acknowledging the enforceability of application commitments, and
certifying that the application meets all federal and state law requirements.
      4.   Waiver Of Information: The city may, at its discretion and upon
request of an applicant, waive in writing the provision of any of the
information required by subsection F3 of this section.
      5.   Information Of Owners: If the applicant was formed less than two (2)
years before the date of application, this same information shall be supplied
for each party owning an interest of ten percent (10%) or more in the
applicant.
   G.   Application For Grant Of Renewal Franchise: The renewal of any
franchise to provide cable service shall be conducted in a manner consistent
with applicable federal law.
   H.   Application For Modification Of Franchise: An application for
modification of a franchise agreement shall include, at minimum, the following
information:
      1.   The specific modification requested;
      2.   The justification for the requested modification, including the
impact of the requested modification on subscribers and others, and the
financial impact on the applicant if the modification is approved or
disapproved, demonstrated through, inter alia, submission of financial pro
formas;
      3.   A statement whether the modification is sought pursuant to section
625 of the cable act, 47 USC section 545, and, if so, a demonstration that the
requested modification meets the standards set forth in 47 USC section 545;
      4.   Any other information that the applicant believes is necessary for
the city to make an informed determination on the application for modification;
and
      5.   An affidavit or declaration of the applicant or authorized officer
certifying the truth and accuracy of the information in the application, and
certifying that the application is consistent with all federal and state law
requirements.
   I.   Public Hearing: Prior to the issuance of a franchise, the city shall
provide for the holding of a public hearing within the proposed franchise area,
following reasonable notice to the public, at which the applicant and its
application shall be examined and the public and all interested parties
afforded a reasonable opportunity to be heard.
   J.   Acceptance Of Franchise: Following approval by the city, and unless
otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, any franchise granted pursuant to
this article, and the rights, privileges and authority granted by a franchise
agreement, shall take effect and be in force from and after the first date on
which both the grantee and the city have accepted and signed the franchise
agreement. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-8: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Compliance With Codes And Regulations: The construction, operation,
maintenance, and repair of a cable system shall be in accordance with all
applicable sections of the occupational safety and health act of 1970, as
amended; the most current edition of the national electrical safety code and
national electric code; obstruction marking and lighting, AC 70/7460, i.e.,
federal aviation administration; construction, marking and lighting of antenna
structures, federal communications commission rules part 17; the "Bellcore Blue
Book Manual Of Construction Procedures"; "Applicant's Construction Procedures
Manual"; and other applicable federal, state, or local laws and regulations
that may apply to the operation, construction, maintenance, or repair of a
cable system, including, without limitation, local zoning and construction
codes and laws and accepted industry practices, all as hereafter may be amended
or adopted. In the event of a conflict among codes and standards, the most
stringent code or standard shall apply (except insofar as that standard, if
followed, would result in a system that could not meet requirements of federal,
state or local law, or is expressly preempted by other such standards). The
city may adopt additional standards as required to ensure that work continues
to be performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner.
   B.   Antennas And Supporting Structures: Without limiting the foregoing,
antennas and their supporting structures (towers) shall be designed in
accordance with the international building code, as amended, and shall be
painted, lighted, erected, and maintained in accordance with all applicable
rules and regulations of the federal aviation administration and all other
applicable state or local laws, codes, and regulations, all as hereafter may be
amended or adopted.
   C.   Accuracy Not Guaranteed: The city does not guarantee the accuracy of
any maps showing the horizontal or vertical location of existing substructures.
In public rights of way, where necessary, the location shall be verified by
excavation.
   D.   Placement On Private Property: To the extent practicable, aboveground
equipment, other than subscriber drop lines and single dwelling unit or other
similar interface devices attached to customer structures placed on private
property, shall be placed at the location requested by the property owner. A
grantee shall provide affected homeowners with at least ten (10) days' advance
written notice of its plans to install such equipment, and shall make
reasonable efforts to confer with such homeowners before any work is done, if
the homeowner contacts the grantee on a timely basis before work begins. (Ord.
29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-9: USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Change Of Grades Or Lines: Should the grades or lines of the public
rights of way that a grantee is authorized by a franchise to use and occupy be
changed at any time during the term of a franchise, the grantee shall, if
necessary, relocate or change its system so as to conform with the new grades
or lines.
   B.   Alteration Of Water Mains, Sewerage Or Drainage Systems: Any alteration
to the water mains, sewerage or drainage system or to any city, state or other
public structures in the public rights of way required on account of the
presence of a grantee's system in the public rights of way shall be made at the
sole cost and expense of the grantee. During any work of constructing,
operating or maintaining of a system, the grantee shall also protect any and
all existing structures belonging to the city and any other person. All work
performed by the grantee shall be done in the manner prescribed by the city or
other officials having jurisdiction therein. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-10: INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC PROJECTS:
Nothing in this article or any franchise agreement shall be in preference or
hindrance to the right of the city and any board, authority, commission or
public service corporation to perform or carry on any public works or public
improvements of any description, and should a grantee's system in any way
interfere with the construction, maintenance or repair of such public works or
public improvements, the grantee shall protect or relocate its system, or part
thereof, as reasonably directed by any city official, board, authority,
commission or public service corporation, consistent with the requirements of
this article and the franchise agreement. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-11: CONSUMER PROTECTION:
   A.   Minimum Customer Service Standards: This section sets forth minimum
customer service standards that a grantee must satisfy. In addition, the
grantee shall at all times satisfy any additional or stricter requirements
established by FCC regulations, or other applicable federal, state, or local
law or regulation, as the same may be adopted or amended from time to time.
      1.   Nothing in this article may be construed to prevent or prohibit:
         a.   The city and a grantee from agreeing to customer service
requirements that exceed the standards set forth in this article.
         b.   The city from enforcing, through the end of a franchise term,
preexisting customer service requirements that exceed the standards set forth
in this article and are contained in current franchise agreements;
         c.   The city from enacting or enforcing any customer service or
consumer protection laws or regulations; or
         d.   The establishment or enforcement of any city law or regulation
concerning customer service that imposes customer service requirements that
exceed, or address matters not addressed by, the standards set forth in this
article, a franchise agreement or federal or state law;
         e.   The city from waiving, for good cause, requirements established
in this section.
   B.   Compliance With Other Consumer Protection Laws: Nothing in this article
in any way relieves a grantee of its obligation to comply with other applicable
consumer protection laws and its franchise agreement.
   C.   Installations, Connections And Other Grantee Services:
      1.   Standard Installations: Except as federal rate regulations may
otherwise require or preempt, the grantee shall not assess a subscriber any
cost other than a standard installation charge for service drops, for a single
outlet, unless the grantee demonstrates to the city's satisfaction that
extraordinary circumstances justify a higher charge.
      2.   Entry Into Residence: The subscriber's preference as to the point of
entry into the residence shall be observed whenever feasible. Runs in building
interiors shall be as unobtrusive as possible. The grantee shall use due care
in the process of installation and shall repair any damage to the subscriber's
property caused by said installation. Such restoration shall be undertaken as
soon as possible after the damage is incurred and shall be completed within no
more than thirty (30) days after the damage is incurred.
      3.   Location Of Drops: In locations where the grantee's system must be
underground, drops must be placed underground as well. Except as federal law
may otherwise require, in any area where a grantee would be entitled to install
a drop aboveground, the grantee will provide the homeowner the option to have
the drop installed underground if requested, but may charge the homeowner the
difference between the actual cost of the aboveground installation and the
actual cost of the underground installation.
      4.   Time For Extension: Where a grantee is required under this
subsection to provide service to a person, it must provide such service: a)
within thirty (30) days of the person's request if such person resides no
further than one hundred fifty feet (150') from the grantee's distribution
system; b) within sixty (60) days if the person resides more than one hundred
fifty feet (150') from the grantee's distribution system, but the distribution
system need not be extended for one-half (1/2) mile or more to provide service;
and c) within six (6) months if an extension of the distribution system for
one-half (1/2) mile or more is required.
      5.   Deposits: A grantee may require a reasonable deposit on equipment
provided to subscribers, in addition to any allowable monthly rental fees. Any
subscriber deposit required by grantee shall bear interest in accordance with
applicable law or at the going rate, which shall be not less than the prime
rate of the bank being used by the city for the conduct of ordinary business.
All deposits, with interest, shall be returned to the subscriber within thirty
(30) days after termination of service or return of the equipment, whichever is
sooner.
      6.   Antennas: A grantee shall not, as a condition to providing cable
service, require any subscriber or potential subscriber to remove any existing
reception devices for the receipt of over the air signals.
   D.   Telephone And Office Availability:
      1.   Each grantee shall maintain an office at a convenient location in
the city that shall be open during normal business hours to allow subscribers
to request service, pay bills, and conduct other business.
      2.   Each grantee will maintain at least one local, toll free or collect
call telephone access line which will be available to subscribers twenty four
(24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week. Trained representatives of a grantee
shall be available to respond to subscriber telephone inquiries during normal
business hours.
      3.   Under normal operating conditions, the following standards shall be
met by a grantee at least ninety percent (90%) of the time, measured quarterly.
         a.   Telephone answering time shall not exceed thirty (30) seconds,
and the time to transfer the call to a customer service representative
(including hold time) shall not exceed an additional thirty (30) seconds.
         b.   A customer will receive a busy signal less than three percent
(3%) of the time.
         c.   When the business office is closed, an answering machine or
service capable of receiving and recording service complaints and inquiries
shall be employed. Inquiries received after hours must be responded to by a
trained representative of a grantee on the next business day. To the extent
possible, the after hours answering service shall comply with the same
telephone answer time standard set forth in this section.
      4.   A grantee must hire sufficient staff (which may include contract
labor) so that it can respond to customer inquiries, complaints, and requests
for service in its office, over the phone, and at the subscriber's residence as
required by this article.
   E.   Scheduling And Completing Service:
      1.   Installations, Outages And Service Calls: Under normal operating
conditions, each of the following standards shall be met by all grantees at
least ninety five percent (95%) of the time, as measured on a quarterly basis:
         a.   Repairs and maintenance for service interruptions and other
repairs not requiring work within a subscriber's premises must be completed
within twenty four (24) hours after the subscriber reports the problem to the
grantee or its representative or the interruption or need for repairs otherwise
becomes known to the grantee. Work on all other requests for service must be
begun by the next business day after notification of the problem. All such work
must be completed within three (3) days from the date of the initial request,
except installation requests. In any case where, for reasons beyond a grantee's
control, the work could not be completed in the specified time periods even
with the exercise of all due diligence, the grantee shall complete the work in
the shortest time possible; the failure of a grantee to hire sufficient staff
or to properly train its staff shall not justify a grantee's failure to comply
with this provision. Except as federal law requires, no charge shall be made to
the subscriber for this service, except for the cost of repairs to the
grantee's equipment or facilities where it can be documented that the equipment
or facility was damaged by a subscriber. System outages affecting more than
five hundred (500) subscribers shall be acted upon within four (4) hours after
the grantee becomes aware of the outage, including Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays.
         b.   The appointment window for installations, service calls, and
other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at maximum, a
four (4) hour time block during normal business hours.
         c.   A grantee may not cancel an appointment with a subscriber after
the close of business on the business day preceding the appointment. If a
grantee's representative is running late for an appointment with a subscriber
and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled, the subscriber will
be contacted, and the appointment rescheduled, as necessary, at a time which is
convenient for the subscriber.
      2.   Hours Of Availability: Each grantee shall perform service calls,
installations, and disconnects at least during normal business hours. In
addition, maintenance service capability enabling the prompt location and
correction of major system malfunctions shall be available twenty four (24)
hours a day, seven (7) days a week.
      3.   Emergency Maintenance: A grantee shall keep an emergency system
maintenance and repair staff, capable of responding to and repairing system
malfunctions or interruptions, on a twenty four (24) hour basis.
      4.   Other Inquiries: Under normal operating conditions, billing
inquiries and requests for service, repair, and maintenance not involving
service interruptions must be acknowledged by a trained customer service
representative within twenty four (24) hours, or prior to the end of the next
business day, whichever is earlier. A grantee shall respond to all other
inquiries within five (5) business days of the inquiry or complaint.
      5.   Repair Of Facilities: Except as federal law requires, no charge
shall be made to the subscriber for repairs or maintenance of grantee owned
equipment or facilities, except for the cost of repairs to the grantee's
equipment or facilities where it can be shown that the equipment or facility
was damaged by a subscriber.
      6.   Missed Appointments: If a subscriber experiences a missed
appointment due to the fault of a grantee, the grantee shall pay the subscriber
twenty dollars ($20.00) for each missed appointment, or such other amount as
the city and the grantee may agree, in addition to any other penalties or
liquidated damages.
      7.   Mobility Limited Subscribers: With regard to mobility limited
subscribers, upon subscriber request, each grantee shall arrange for pick up
and/or replacement of converters or other grantee equipment at the subscriber's
address or by a satisfactory equivalent (such as the provision of a postage
prepaid mailer).
   F.   Interruptions Of Service: A grantee may intentionally interrupt service
on the cable system only for good cause and for the shortest time possible and,
except in emergency situations or to the extent necessary to fix the affected
subscriber's service problems, only after a minimum of forty eight (48) hours'
prior notice to subscribers and the city of the anticipated service
interruption; provided, however, that planned maintenance that does not require
more than two (2) hours' interruption of service and that occurs between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. shall not
require such notice to subscribers, but shall require notice to the city no
less than twenty four (24) hours prior to the anticipated service interruption.
   G.   Notice To Subscribers:
      1.   When a subscriber is connected or reconnected to a cable system and
at least once annually afterwards, and at any time upon request, the grantee
shall provide each subscriber with written information concerning the
following. Copies of all such materials provided to subscribers shall also be
provided to the city. Such information shall also be made available on a
generally accessible internet site.
         a.   A description of products and services offered, including a
schedule of rates and charges, a list of channel positions, and a description
of programming services, options, and conditions;
         b.   A description of the grantee's installation and service
maintenance policies, delinquent subscriber disconnect and reconnect
procedures, and any other of its policies applicable to its subscribers;
         c.   Instructions on how to use the cable service;
         d.   Instructions for placing a service call;
         e.   A description of the grantee's billing and complaint procedures,
including the address and telephone number of the city office responsible for
receiving subscriber complaints;
         f.   A copy of the service contract, if any;
         g.   Notice regarding subscribers' privacy rights pursuant to 47 USC
section 551;
         h.   Notice of the availability of universal remote controls and other
compatible equipment (a list of which, specifying brands and models, shall be
provided to any subscriber upon request).
      2.   The grantee shall provide to all subscribers at least thirty (30)
days' written notice before the implementation of any change in rates,
programming services, business hours, or procedures for responding to inquiries
after normal business hours. At least five (5) working days before the
subscriber notice, unless waived by the city, the grantee shall provide to the
city the specific points to be contained in a subscriber notice and the text of
the subscriber notice, if available. If the text is not available, it shall be
provided to the city as soon as it is available.
      3.   All grantee promotional materials, announcements, and advertising of
residential cable service to subscribers and the general public, where price
information is listed in any manner, shall clearly and accurately disclose
price terms. In the case of pay per view or pay per event programming, all
promotional materials must clearly and accurately disclose price terms and in
the case of telephone orders, a grantee shall take appropriate steps to ensure
that price terms are clearly and accurately disclosed to potential customers
before the order is accepted.
      4.   Each grantee shall maintain a public file containing all notices
provided to subscribers under these customer service standards. Copies of all
such notices sent to subscribers, and of any agreements used with subscribers,
shall be filed promptly with the city.
   H.   Subscriber Agreements:
      1.   The form of any installation or service agreement which a grantee
proposes to use or has used with a subscriber shall be subject to the approval
of the city in order to ensure protection of legitimate consumer interests. Any
type of agreement used by a grantee and not approved by the city shall be void
ab initio. When such an agreement is submitted for approval, the city shall
provide its response within two (2) weeks after the date of submission.
      2.   Two (2) copies of all other types of agreements with subscribers
used by a grantee shall be filed and maintained, one copy with the city clerk
and one copy with the city manager or the city manager's designee.
      3.   No agreement with a subscriber shall contain false or misleading
information.
   I.   Billing:
      1.   Bills shall be clear, concise, and understandable. Bills must be
fully itemized with itemizations including, but not limited to, basic and
premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills shall clearly delineate
all activity during the billing period, including optional charges, rebates,
and credits. Amounts itemized on bills pursuant to 47 USC section 542(c) shall
not be identified as separate costs over and above the amount the franchisee
charges a subscriber for cable service, but shall be shown in such a way as to
make clear to the subscriber that these amounts are part of the total amount a
grantee charges a cable subscriber for cable service, as set forth in the
example in H.R. rep. no. 628, 102d cong., 2d sess., at 86 (1992).
      2.   Refund checks to subscribers shall be issued promptly, but no later
than the later of:
         a.   The subscriber's next billing cycle, or thirty (30) days,
following resolution of the refund request, whichever is earlier; or
         b.   The return of all equipment supplied by the grantee, if service
is terminated.
      3.   Credits for service shall be issued no later than the subscriber's
next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is warranted.
      4.   A grantee's first billing statement after a new installation or
service change shall be prorated as appropriate and shall reflect any security
deposit.
      5.   A grantee's billing statement must show a specific payment due date
not earlier than the tenth day of the period for which the service being billed
is rendered. Any balance not received by the end of the period for which the
service is being billed ("current month") may be assessed a late fee not
exceeding five dollars ($5.00) in 2005 dollars, adjusted for inflation
according to CPI-U all urban consumers U.S. city average all items, or such
other amount as the city and the grantee may agree, consistent with state and
local law. Any late fee shall appear on the billing statement for the month
after the current month ("subsequent month"). If a late fee is shown on the
subsequent month's billing statement and such late fee amount is paid before
the end of the current month, then the grantee shall reverse such late fee and
credit such subscriber's account for the amount of such late fee.
      6.   A grantee must notify the subscriber that he or she can remit
payment in person at the grantee's business office and inform the subscriber of
the address of that office.
      7.   Subscribers shall not be charged a late fee or otherwise penalized
for any failure by a grantee, including failure to timely or correctly bill the
subscriber, or failure to properly credit the subscriber for a payment timely
made.
      8.   The account of any subscriber shall be credited a prorated share of
the monthly charge for the service upon the subscriber's reasonably prompt
request and, without a subscriber's request, in any case where the grantee can
identify the affected subscribers, if said subscriber is without service or if
service is substantially impaired for any reason for a period exceeding four
(4) hours during any twenty four (24) hour period, except where: a) it can be
documented that a subscriber seeks a refund for an outage or impairment which
that subscriber caused; or b) in the case of a planned outage of two (2) hours
or less occurring between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. of which the subscriber had prior notice; or c) if the
interruption is necessary to perform tests required by applicable law.
      9.   A grantee shall respond to all written billing complaints from
subscribers within thirty (30) days.
   J.   Disconnection/Downgrades:
      1.   A subscriber may terminate service at any time unless the subscriber
has voluntarily entered into a contract for service for a term of longer than
one month, in which case the contract terms shall govern.
      2.   A grantee shall promptly disconnect or downgrade any subscriber upon
request. No period of notice prior to voluntary termination or downgrade of
service may be required of subscribers by any grantee. So long as the
subscriber returns, or permits the grantee to retrieve, any equipment necessary
to receive a service within five (5) business days of the disconnection, no
charge may be imposed by any grantee for any cable service delivered after the
date of the disconnect request.
      3.   Any security deposit and/or other funds due the subscriber shall be
refunded on disconnected accounts after any customer premises equipment
provided by the grantee has been recovered by the grantee. The refund must be
made within thirty (30) days or by the end of the next billing cycle, whichever
is earlier, from the date disconnection was requested (or, if later, the date
on which any customer premises equipment provided by the grantee is returned).
      4.   If a subscriber fails to pay a monthly subscriber fee or other fee
or charge, a grantee may disconnect the subscriber's service; however, such
disconnection shall not be effected until after forty five (45) days from the
beginning of the period for which the service being billed is rendered, plus at
least ten (10) days' advance written notice to the subscriber in question of
intent to disconnect, given after the forty five (45) days have elapsed. If the
subscriber pays all amounts due, including late charges, before the date
scheduled for disconnection, the grantee shall not disconnect service. After
disconnection, upon payment by the subscriber in full of all proper fees or
charges, including the payment of the reconnection charge, if any, the grantee
shall promptly reinstate service.
      5.   A grantee may immediately disconnect a subscriber if the subscriber
is damaging or destroying the grantee's cable system or equipment. After
disconnection, the grantee shall restore service after the subscriber provides
adequate assurance that it has ceased the practices that led to disconnection,
and pays all proper fees and charges, including any reconnect fees and amounts
owed the grantee for damage to its cable system or equipment.
      6.   A grantee may also disconnect a subscriber that causes signal
leakage in excess of federal limits. Disconnection may be effected after five
(5) days' written notice to the subscriber, if the subscriber fails to take
steps to correct the problem. In addition, a grantee may disconnect a
subscriber without notice where signal leakage is detected originating from the
subscriber's premises in excess of federal limits; provided, that the grantee
shall immediately notify the subscriber of the problem and, once the problem is
corrected, reconnect the subscriber.
      7.   If a grantee fails to remove its subscriber terminal equipment from
a subscriber's premises within one hundred twenty (120) days of the termination
of service, the property shall be deemed abandoned, unless such subscriber is
responsible for the grantee's failure to remove such property.
      8.   A grantee shall reconnect service to customers wishing restoration
of service, provided such a customer shall first satisfy any previous
obligations owed.
   K.   Parental Control Option: A grantee shall make available to any
subscribers upon request the option of blocking the video or audio portion of
any channel or channels of programming entering the subscriber's home. The
control option described herein shall be made available to all subscribers
requesting it when any cable service is provided, or reasonably soon
thereafter.
   L.   Subscriber Contracts: No grantee shall require a subscriber, as a
condition of service, to waive any rights the subscriber may have against the
grantee at law or equity.
   M.   Enforcement:
      1.   A grantee shall keep such records as are necessary to show
compliance with these customer service standards and FCC customer service
standards.
      2.   A grantee shall file annually with the city a statement signed by an
officer or employee certifying compliance with these customer service standards
and FCC customer service standards for each calendar quarter. Each such
certification shall be filed with the grantee's annual report. If a grantee is
unable to certify full compliance for each calendar quarter, it must indicate
in its filing each standard with which it is in compliance, and in
noncompliance statement.
      3.   If a grantee is in noncompliance with any standard during any
calendar quarter, it shall include in its annual filing a statement specifying
areas of noncompliance, the reason for the noncompliance and a remedial plan.
      4.   An officer or employee of a grantee who knowingly and intentionally
signs a compliance certificate or noncompliance statement knowing that such
statement is materially false shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      5.   A grantee that fails to file a compliance certificate or
noncompliance statement as required herein shall be liable for the penalty
specified for violation of customer service standards herein.
      6.   In addition, except as prohibited by federal law, a grantee shall be
subject to penalties, forfeitures and any other remedies or sanctions available
under federal, state or local law, including, without limitation, this article
and a grantee's franchise with the city, if it fails to comply with the
standards herein.
      7.   Violation of the consumer protection obligations referred to in this
section shall be a municipal infraction as defined in subsection
1-4-2A of this code and shall be punishable as provided therein.
   N.   Exclusive Contracts And Anticompetitive Acts Prohibited:
      1.   No grantee shall enter into an exclusive agreement to serve a
subscriber, person or location unless the grantee has also offered cable
service under terms not requiring an exclusive contract.
      2.   No grantee shall engage in acts that have the purpose or effect of
limiting competition for the provision of cable service or services similar to
cable service in the city, except for such actions as are expressly authorized
by federal or state law. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-12: RATE REGULATION:
The city reserves the right to regulate all rates and charges except to the
extent it is prohibited from doing so by law. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-13: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   Payment Of Franchise Fee:
      1.   Each grantee shall pay a franchise fee in an amount determined in
the franchise agreement.
      2.   In the event that any franchise fee payment or any recomputation
amount is not paid by the due date, then interest shall accrue to the city from
such due date at a rate equal to the interest rate then chargeable for unpaid
federal income taxes (26 USC section 6621).
      3.   In the event that a franchise is revoked prior to its expiration
date, the grantee shall file with the city, within thirty (30) days after the
date of revocation, a financial statement certified by the grantee's chief
financial officer or an independent certified public accountant clearly showing
the gross revenues received by the grantee since the previous franchise fee
payment period and shall pay at that time any franchise fees accrued as of the
date of revocation.
   B.   Not A Tax Or In Lieu Of Any Other Tax Or Fee:
      1.   Payment of the franchise fee shall not be considered in the nature
of a tax, nor shall it be considered in lieu of other taxes or fees imposed by
the city except to the extent that federal law requires such other taxes or
fees to be considered part of the franchise fee.
      2.   No grantee may designate the franchise fee as a tax in any
communication to a subscriber.
   C.   No Accord Or Satisfaction: No acceptance of any payment by the city
shall be construed as a release or an accord and satisfaction of any claim the
city may have for further or additional sums due or for the performance of any
other obligation of a grantee, or as an acknowledgment that the amount paid is
the correct amount due.
   D.   Allocation Of Discounts: For purposes of calculating franchise fee
payments under applicable franchise provisions, any discount reflected in an
aggregated bill for services which include cable services will be allocated
proportionately to cable services. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-14: SYSTEM TESTS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Performance Of Necessary Tests Required: A grantee shall perform all
tests necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of its
franchise and other performance standards established by law or regulation, and
to ensure that system components are operating as expected.
   B.   Specific Tests: A grantee shall conduct tests as follows:
      1.   Acceptance tests on each newly constructed or rebuilt segment prior
to subscriber connection or activation;
      2.   Proof of performance tests on the system at least once every six (6)
months or as required by FCC rules, whichever is more often, except as federal
law may otherwise limit the grantee's obligation;
      3.   Special tests when subscriber or user complaints indicate tests are
warranted;
      4.   Special tests at the city's reasonable request.
   C.   Supervision: Tests shall be supervised by the grantee's professional
engineer, who shall sign all records of tests provided to the city.
   D.   City Authority To View Tests And Conduct Inspections: If the city
notifies a grantee that the city wishes to observe the next proof of
performance test, then the grantee shall provide the city with at least two (2)
business days' notice of the test, and an opportunity to observe it. The city
may also conduct inspections of construction areas and subscriber
installations, including, but not limited to, inspections to assess compliance
with the grantee's construction and installation requirements, its franchise
agreement, and applicable law generally. Inspection does not relieve the
grantee of its obligation to build in compliance with all provisions of its
franchise.
   E.   Written Report Of Test Results: A written report of the results of any
tests required by the city shall be filed with the city within seven (7) days
of each test upon the city's request. In addition, the grantee shall retain
written reports of the results of any tests required by the FCC, and such
reports shall be submitted to the city upon the city's request.
   F.   Failure To Meet Requirements: If any test requested by the city
indicates that any part or component of the system fails to meet applicable
requirements, the grantee, without requirement of additional notice or request
from city, shall take corrective action, retest the locations and advise the
city of the action taken and results achieved.
   G.   City Right To Conduct Tests: The city reserves the right to conduct its
own tests upon reasonable notice to the grantee. If noncompliance is found, the
expense thereof shall be borne by the grantee. The city will endeavor to
arrange any request for such tests so as to minimize hardship or inconvenience
to the grantee or to subscribers. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-15: INSURANCE:
   A.   Insurance Required: A grantee shall maintain, and by its acceptance of
the franchise specifically agrees that it will maintain, throughout the entire
length of the franchise period, insurance as set forth in the insurance
schedule, exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein, as such schedule may from
time to time be amended by the city. The insurance schedule attached as said
exhibit A is the city's current schedule.
   B.   Indemnification Clause: All contractual liability insurance policies
and certificates maintained pursuant to this agreement shall include the
provision of the following indemnification clause:
         To the fullest extent permitted by law, the grantee shall indemnify
and hold harmless the city from and against all claims, damages, losses and
expenses, including, but not limited to, attorney fees, arising out of or
resulting from the franchise; provided, that such claim, damages, loss or
expense is attributable to bodily injury, sickness, disease or death, or injury
to or destruction of property including loss of use resulting therefrom, but
only to the extent caused in whole or in part by negligent acts or omissions of
the grantee, the grantee's subcontractor, or anyone directly or indirectly
employed by the grantee or the grantee's subcontractor or anyone for whose acts
the grantee or the grantee's subcontractor may be liable, regardless of whether
or not such claim, damage, loss or expense is caused in part by a party
indemnified hereunder.
(Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-16: REPORTS AND RECORDS; CABLE:
   A.   Financial Records Required: A grantee shall maintain financial records
that allow analysis and review of its operations in each individual franchise
area.
   B.   Communication With Regulatory Agencies:
      1.   The grantee shall file with the city all reports and materials
submitted to or received from the federal communications commission by the
grantee or its affiliates that relate specifically to the cable system or are
reasonably likely to affect the grantee's operations in the city. Such reports
and materials shall include, but are not limited to, proof of performance tests
and results and any petitions or applications regarding the cable system or a
group of cable systems of which the grantee's cable system is a part.
      2.   Materials filed with the city pursuant to subsection B1 of this
section shall be filed as follows:
         a.   Materials submitted by the grantee, an affiliate, or any other
person on the behalf of the grantee shall be filed with the city no later than
the next business day after they are submitted to the receiving agency.
         b.   Materials received by the grantee shall be filed with the city
within thirty (30) days of the date they are received by the grantee, except
that if applicable law permits a response to such materials by the city and
sets a deadline of sixty (60) or fewer days for the city's response, they shall
be filed with the city within five (5) days of the date they are received by
the grantee.
      3.   Public access to such materials received by the city shall not be
denied, except to the extent expressly required by law.
   C.   Annual Report: Unless this requirement is waived in whole or in part by
the city, no later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the end of its
fiscal year, a grantee shall submit a written report to the city, in a form
directed by the city, which shall include:
      1.   A summary of the previous year's activities in development of the
cable system, including, but not limited to, descriptions of services begun or
dropped, the number of subscribers gained or lost for each category of service,
the amount collected annually from users of the system and the character and
extent of the services rendered to any users from whom amounts are collected,
including leased access channel users; provided, that if the city directly or
indirectly competes with a grantee in providing communications services, it
shall provide such grantee with the number of subscribers gained or lost for
each category of service by the city during the city's fiscal year.
      2.   A summary of complaints, identifying both the number and nature of
the complaints received and an explanation of their dispositions, as such
records are kept by the grantee. Where complaints involve recurrent system
problems, the nature of each such problem and the corrective measures taken
shall be identified.
      3.   A report showing the number of service calls received by type during
each quarter, and the percentage of service calls compared to the subscriber
base by type of complaint.
      4.   A report showing the number of outages and service degradations for
each quarter, and identifying separately each planned outage, the time it
occurred, its duration, and the estimated area and number of subscribers
affected; each unplanned outage or service degradation, the time it occurred,
its estimated duration and the estimated area and the number of subscribers
affected; and the total hours of outages and service degradations as a
percentage of total hours of cable system operation.
      5.   A copy of any rules and regulations of the grantee applicable to
subscribers of the cable system, and of any contracts for cable service
initiated with current subscribers during the year.
      6.   An annual statement of gross revenues derived from the operation of
the cable system, certified by an officer of the grantee.
      7.   A full schedule of all subscriber and other user rates, fees and
charges.
      8.   The grantee's policies regarding subscriber privacy.
      9.   Such other information as the city may direct that is relevant to
compliance with the grantee's franchise agreement, this article and other
applicable law.
   D.   Investigation; Civil Or Criminal Proceedings: A grantee must submit a
copy and full explanation of any notice of deficiency, forfeiture, or other
document issued by any state or federal agency instituting any investigation or
civil or criminal proceeding regarding the cable system, the grantee, or any
affiliate of the grantee, to the extent the same may affect or bear on
operations in the city. By way of illustration and not limitation, a notice
that an affiliate that has a management contract for the cable system was not
in compliance with FCC EEO requirements would be deemed to affect or bear on
operations in the city. This material shall be submitted in accordance with the
deadlines specified in subsection B2 of this section.
   E.   Additional Reports: Each grantee shall prepare and furnish to the city,
at the times and in the form prescribed by the city, such additional reports
with respect to its operation, affairs, transactions or property, as the city
may reasonably deem necessary or relevant to the performance of any of the
rights, functions or duties of the city in connection with this agreement and/
or this article.
   F.   Records Required: The grantee shall maintain:
      1.   Records of all complaints received. The term "complaints" as used
herein and throughout this agreement refers to written complaints or complaints
documented in the grantee's normal course of business about any aspect of the
cable system or the grantee's operations, including, without limitation,
complaints about employee courtesy. Complaints recorded may not be limited to
complaints requiring an employee service call.
      2.   Records of outages, indicating date, duration, area, number of
subscribers affected, type of outage, and cause.
      3.   Records of service calls for repair and maintenance, indicating the
date and time service was requested, the date and time service was provided,
and (if different) the date and time the problem was resolved.
      4.   Records of installation/reconnection and written requests for
service extension, indicating date of request, date of acknowledgment, and the
date and time service was extended.
   G.   Retention Of Records; Relation To Privacy Rights: A grantee shall take
all steps that may be required to ensure that it is able to provide the city
all information which must be provided or may be requested under this article
or this agreement, including by providing appropriate subscriber privacy
notices. Nothing in this section shall be read to require a grantee to violate
47 USC section 551. Each grantee shall be responsible for redacting any data
that federal law prevents it from providing to the city. The city retains the
right to question any such redaction and to challenge it in any forum having
jurisdiction over such a challenge. Records shall be kept for at least five (5)
years, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the city.
   H.   Waiver Of Reporting Requirements: The city may, at its discretion,
waive in writing the requirement of any particular report specified in this
section. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-17: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalties:
      1.   For violation of provisions of this article or a franchise agreement
entered into pursuant to this article, including, but not limited to, the
following penalties shall be assessable against a grantee and shall be
chargeable to the grantee's security fund in any amount up to the limits
specified in subsection 1-4-2B of this code, at the city's discretion:
         a.   For failure to substantially complete construction in accordance
with the franchise agreement;
         b.   For transferring the franchise without approval;
         c.   For failure to comply with requirements for public, educational,
and governmental use of the system;
         d.   For violation of customer service standards;
         e.   For failure, unless such failure is beyond the grantee's control,
of the system to perform in the event of a public emergency;
         f.   For violation of technical standards established by the FCC;
         g.   For violation of federal, state, or local privacy requirements;
         h.   For any other violations of this article, a franchise agreement,
or other applicable law.
      2.   The following procedure shall apply, in place of the amount
specified in subsection A1d of this section, for violation of customer service
standards, in assessing liquidated damages for customer service standards that
are measured on a quarterly basis:
         a.   For the first calendar quarter in which the grantee does not meet
the prescribed standard (a "noncompliant quarter"), the grantee will be subject
to penalty in the amount of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
         b.   For a second consecutive noncompliant quarter, the grantee shall
be subject to penalty in the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
         c.   For each consecutive noncompliant quarter beyond the second, the
grantee shall be subject to penalty in the amount of four thousand dollars
($4,000.00).
      3.   The grantee shall pay any penalty assessed in accordance with this
article within thirty (30) days after receipt of notice from the city.
      4.   To the extent that penalties are applied to a grantee under this
subsection, a grantee shall not be subject to liquidated damages payable to the
city for the same violation.
      5.   The city may reduce or waive any of the above listed penalties for
good cause shown.
      6.   Pending litigation or any appeal to any regulatory body or court
having jurisdiction over a grantee shall not excuse the grantee from the
performance of its obligations under this article or its franchise agreement
unless a stay is obtained. Failure of the grantee to perform such obligations
because of pending litigation or petition, in the absence of a stay issued by a
forum of competent jurisdiction, may result in forfeiture or revocation
pursuant to the provisions of this article and/or its franchise agreement.
   B.   Remedies Cumulative: All remedies under this article and the franchise
agreement are cumulative unless otherwise expressly stated. The exercise of a
remedy or the payment of liquidated damages or penalties shall not relieve a
grantee of its obligations to comply with its franchise or applicable law.
   C.   Relation To Insurance And Indemnity Requirements: Recovery by the city
of any amounts under insurance, the security fund, the performance bond, or
letter of credit, or otherwise does not limit a grantee's duty to indemnify the
city in any way; nor shall such recovery relieve a grantee of its obligations
under a franchise, limit the amounts owed to the city, or in any respect
prevent the city from exercising any other right or remedy it may have. (Ord.
29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-18: TRANSFERS:
   A.   City Approval Required:
      1.   A franchise shall be a privilege that is in the public trust and
personal to the grantee. A grantee's obligations under its franchise involve
personal services whose performance involves personal credit, trust, and
confidence in the grantee.
      2.   No transfer of a franchise, grantee, or cable system, or of control
over the same (including, but not limited to, transfer by forced or voluntary
sale, merger, consolidation, receivership, or any other means) shall occur
unless prior application is made by the grantee to the city and the city's
prior written consent is obtained, pursuant to this article and the franchise
agreement, and only then upon such terms and conditions as the city deems
necessary and proper. Any such transfer without the prior written consent of
the city shall be considered to impair the city's assurance of due performance.
The granting of approval for a transfer in one instance shall not render
unnecessary approval of any subsequent transfer.
   B.   Application:
      1.   A grantee shall promptly notify the city of any proposed transfer.
      2.   At least one hundred twenty (120) calendar days prior to the
contemplated effective date of a transfer, a grantee shall submit to the city a
written application for approval of a transfer. Such an application shall
provide complete information on the proposed transaction, including details on
the legal, financial, technical, and other qualifications of the transferee,
and on the potential impact of the transfer on subscriber rates and service. At
a minimum, the following information must be included in the application,
unless these requirements are waived, reduced, or modified by the city:
         a.   All information and forms required under federal law;
         b.   All information required in subsections
11-2A-7F3a through F3e of this article;
         c.   A detailed statement of the corporate or other business entity
organization of the proposed transferee, together with an explanation of how
decisions regarding the system will be made if the proposed transaction is
approved;
         d.   Complete and unredacted copies of any contracts, financing
documents, or other documents that relate to the proposed transaction, and all
documents, schedules, exhibits, or the like referred to therein;
         e.   Any documents related to the transaction (including any documents
regarding rates the transferee expects to charge) that have been provided to
any entity that has been asked to provide financing (debt, equity, or any other
kind) for, or to underwrite any offering made in connection with, the proposed
transaction;
         f.   Any shareholder reports or filings with the securities and
exchange commission (SEC) or the federal trade commission (FTC) that discuss
the transaction, and any filings required under federal or state law in
connection with the proposed transaction;
         g.   Complete financial statements for the grantee and any potential
transferees for the last three (3) years, including balance sheets, income
statements, profit and loss statements, and documents detailing capital
investments and operating costs;
         h.   A detailed description of the sources and amounts of the funds to
be used in the proposed transaction, indicating how the debt equity ratio of
the system will change in the course of the transaction; what entities will be
liable for repayment of any debt incurred; what interest, payment schedule, and
other terms or conditions will apply to any debt financing; any debt coverages
or financial ratios any potential transferees will be required to maintain over
the franchise term if the proposed transaction is approved; what financial
resources would be available to the system under the control of the proposed
transferee; whether the proposed transferee can meet debt equity or any other
required ratios without increasing rates, with any assumptions underlying that
conclusion, and if not, what increases would be required and why;
         i.   Any other information necessary to provide a complete and
accurate understanding of the financial position of the system before and after
the proposed transfer;
         j.   Complete information regarding any potential impact of the
transfer on subscriber rates and service;
         k.   Any representations made to anyone, in connection with the
transaction, about the grantee's compliance with its franchise; and
         l.   A brief summary of the proposed transferee's plans for at least
the next five (5) years regarding line extension, plant and equipment upgrades,
channel capacity, expansion or elimination of services, and any other changes
affecting or enhancing the performance of the system.
      3.   To the extent consistent with applicable law, the city may waive in
writing any such requirement that information be submitted as part of the
initial application, without thereby waiving any rights the city may have to
request such information after the initial application is filed.
      4.   For the purposes of determining whether it shall consent to a
transfer, the city or its agents may inquire into all qualifications of the
prospective transferee and such other matters as the city may deem necessary in
considering the matters described in subsection C1 of this section. The grantee
and any prospective transferees shall assist the city in any such inquiry, and
if they fail to do so, the request for transfer may be denied.
      5.   Any transfer review period established by federal law will not begin
until all documents and information required by subsection B2 of this section,
without exception, have been provided to the city, unless the city and the
grantee have expressly agreed in writing, before the transfer application is
filed with the city, that specified documents or parts of documents may be
redacted, excluded, or reviewed through special arrangements. It shall be the
responsibility of the grantee in any transfer to make any arrangements with the
city with regard to redaction, exclusion, or confidentiality, including,
without limitation, the execution of any confidentiality agreements that may be
appropriate, prior to the filing of any FCC form 394 or transfer application.
By accepting its franchise, a grantee agrees that any transfer application
inconsistent with this requirement is void and, in addition, that filing such
an application constitutes a violation of this article.
   C.   Determination By City:
      1.   In making a determination as to whether to grant, deny, or grant
subject to conditions an application for a transfer, the city may consider,
without limitation, the legal, financial, and technical qualifications of the
transferee to operate its system; any potential impact of the transfer on
subscriber rates or services; whether the incumbent cable operator is in
compliance with its franchise agreement, this article, and applicable law, and,
if not, whether the proposed transferee will cure any noncompliance; whether
the transferee owns or controls any other cable system in the city, and whether
operation by the transferee may eliminate or reduce competition in the delivery
of cable service in the city; whether operation by the transferee or approval
of the transfer would adversely affect subscribers or the public, or the city's
interest under the franchise agreement, this article, and other applicable law;
whether the transfer would make it less likely that the future cable related
needs and interests of the community would be satisfied at a reasonable cost;
and any other matters that it is required or permitted to consider under
applicable law.
      2.   Any transfer without the city's prior written approval shall be
ineffective, and shall make this franchise subject to cancellation at the
city's sole discretion, and to any other remedies available under the franchise
agreement, this article, or other applicable law. Any such transfer shall be
deemed to cause irreparable harm to the city.
      3.   A grantee shall be fully liable for any transfer that is in
violation of the terms of its franchise agreement or this article and is caused
in whole or in part by any other entity or entities, including, but not limited
to, any parents or affiliated entities, as if such transfer had been caused by
the grantee itself.
   D.   Transferee's Agreement: No application for a transfer shall be granted
unless the transferee agrees in writing that it will abide by and accept all
terms of the franchise agreement and this article, and that it will assume the
obligations, liabilities, and responsibility for all acts and omissions, known
and unknown, of the previous grantee for all purposes, including renewal,
unless the city, in its sole discretion, expressly waives this requirement in
whole or in part.
   E.   Approval Does Not Constitute Waiver: Approval by the city of a transfer
does not constitute a waiver or release of any of the rights of the city under
this article or a franchise agreement, whether arising before or after the date
of the transfer. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-19: RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED:
   A.   Discriminatory Practices Prohibited:
      1.   A grantee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, programmers, or residents of the city on the
basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, or age.
      2.   A grantee shall not discriminate among persons or take any
retaliatory action against a person because of that person's exercise of any
right it may have under federal, state, or local law, nor may the grantee
require a person to waive such rights as a condition of taking service.
      3.   A grantee shall not deny access or levy different rates and charges
on any group of potential residential cable subscribers because of the income
of the residents of the local area in which such group resides.
      4.   Subject to applicable law and except to the extent the city may
waive such a requirement, a grantee is prohibited from discriminating in its
rates or charges or from granting undue preferences to any subscriber,
potential subscriber, or group of subscribers or potential subscribers;
provided, however, that a grantee may offer temporary, bona fide promotional
discounts in order to attract or maintain subscribers, so long as such
discounts are offered on a nondiscriminatory basis to similar classes of
subscribers throughout the city; and a grantee may offer discounts for the
elderly, the disabled, not for profit persons or organizations, or the
economically disadvantaged, and such other discounts as it is expressly
entitled to provide under federal law, if such discounts are applied in a
uniform and consistent manner. A grantee shall comply at all times with all
applicable federal, state, and city laws, and all executive and administrative
orders relating to nondiscrimination.
      5.   A grantee may impose different financial terms and conditions on
different subscribers based on rational classifications (for example, the
subscriber's credit history); provided, that such imposition does not violate
applicable state or federal law.
   B.   Subscriber Privacy:
      1.   A grantee shall at all times protect the privacy rights of all
subscribers, including, but not limited to, those rights secured by the
provisions of section 631 of the cable act, 47 USC section 551.
      2.   A subscriber may at any time revoke any authorization to release
information by delivering to the grantee in writing, by mail or otherwise, the
subscriber's decision to revoke the authorization. Any such revocation shall be
effective upon receipt by the grantee.
      3.   A grantee shall not condition subscriber service on the subscriber's
grant or denial of permission to collect, maintain or disclose personally
identifiable information except to the extent that such information is
necessary for credit check or billing purposes. A subscriber may at any time
revoke any permission previously given by delivering to the grantee a written
statement of that intent. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2A-20: RECOURSE AGAINST CITY LIMITED:
Without limiting such immunities as the city or other persons may have under
applicable law, a grantee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the city or
its officials, boards, commissions, agents or employees for any loss, costs,
expense or damage arising out of any provision or requirement of this article
or because of the enforcement of this article or the city's exercise of its
authority pursuant to this article, a franchise agreement, or other applicable
law, unless the same shall be caused by criminal acts or by wilful or gross
negligence. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
ARTICLE B. OPEN VIDEO SYSTEMS
SECTION:
11-2B-1: Applicability Of Chapter
11-2B-2: Application For Open Video System Authorization
11-2B-3: Fee In Lieu Of Franchise Fee
11-2B-4: Public, Educational And Governmental Access Obligations
11-2B-5: Right Of Way Usage
11-2B-1: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER:
   A.   In addition to this article, the provisions of this chapter shall apply
to open video systems that comply with 47 USC section 573, to the extent
permitted by applicable law, except that the following sections of this chapter
shall not apply:
      Subsection
11-2-21D (franchise termination due to certain conditions)
      Subsections
11-2A-7A, B and C (regarding grant of franchise)
      Subsection
11-2A-7F (franchise applications)
      Section
11-2A-12 (rate regulation)
      Subsection
11-2A-13B (regarding franchise fees)
      Subsections
11-2A-17A1 and A2 (certain penalties)
      Section
11-2A-18 (transfers)
   B.   In applying this chapter to an open video system, "grantee" shall be
taken to refer to the open video system operator, "cable system" to the open
video system, "franchise" to any authorization granted by the city to the open
video system operator, and similar terms shall apply similarly. (Ord. 29-05, 5-
2-2005)
11-2B-2: APPLICATION FOR OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   Contents Of Application: A person proposing to use public rights of way
to install devices for the operation of an open video system shall first obtain
authorization from the city for such use. Such a person may apply for such
authorization by submitting an application containing:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant and an identification of the
ownership and control of the applicant, including: the names and addresses of
the ten (10) largest holders of an ownership interest in the applicant and
affiliates of the applicant, and all persons with three percent (3%) or more
ownership interest in the applicant and its affiliates; the persons who control
the applicant and its affiliates; all officers and directors of the applicant
and its affiliates; and any other business affiliation and cable system
ownership interest of each named person.
      2.   A detailed description of the physical facilities the applicant
proposes to place in public ways.
      3.   Any information that may be reasonably necessary to demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of federal law and with this chapter.
      4.   An affidavit or declaration of the applicant or authorized officer
certifying the truth and accuracy of the information in the application and
certifying that the application meets all federal and state law requirements.
   B.   Waiver Of Information Requirement: The city may, at its discretion and
upon request of an applicant, waive in writing the provision of any of the
information required by this section.
   C.   Reimburse City For Costs: An OVS applicant shall reimburse the city for
its costs pursuant to section
11-2-15 of this chapter. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2B-3: FEE IN LIEU OF FRANCHISE FEE:
An open video system operator shall pay to the city a fee in lieu of and on the
same basis as the franchise fee required in section
11-2A-13 of this chapter, pursuant to the procedures and conditions specified
in that section and generally herein. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2B-4: PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS OBLIGATIONS:
An open video system operator shall be subject to obligations pertaining to
public, educational, and governmental access pursuant to applicable law and to
the requirements herein. (Ord. 29-05, 5-2-2005)
11-2B-5: RIGHT OF WAY USAGE:
An open video system operator shall be subject to all requirements of state and
local law regarding authorization to use or occupy the public rights of way,
except to the extent specifically prohibited by federal law. FCC approval of an
open video system operator's certification pursuant to 47 USC section 573 shall
not be taken to confer upon such operator any authority to use or occupy the
public rights of way that such operator would not otherwise possess. (Ord. 29-
05, 5-2-2005)
CHAPTER 3
CABLE TELEVISION
ARTICLE A. CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
SECTION:
11-3A-1: Franchise Fees For Cable And/Or Video Providers
11-3A-2: Franchise Fees Affirmed
11-3A-3: Public, Education And Governmental Channel Capacity And Transmission
11-3A-1: FRANCHISE FEES FOR CABLE AND/OR VIDEO SERVICES:
Any provider of cable television and/or video services in the city shall remit
to the city a franchise fee or fee(s) as provided under Iowa Code Section
477A.7, in the sum of five percent (5%) of gross revenues. (Ord. 5-22, 1-18-
2022)
11-3A-2: FRANCHISE FEES AFFIRMED:
The franchise fees of five percent (5%) of gross revenues, as imposed under the
city's prior franchise agreements and collected by the city, are hereby
ratified, affirmed and approved from the expiration date of said franchises
forward and continuing under this chapter. (Ord. 5-22, 1-18-2022)
11-3A-3: PUBLIC, EDUCATION AND GOVERNMENTAL CHANNEL CAPACITY AND TRANSMISSION:
Any provider of cable television and/or video services in the city shall
provide the city with public, educational and governmental channel capacity
pursuant to Iowa Code Section 477A.6. Each such provider shall provide three
(3) public, educational and governmental access channels, and shall transmit
the public, educational and governmental channel signals through its cable and/
or video system within the city. (Ord. 5-22, 1-18-2022)
ARTICLE B. COMMUNITY TELEPROGRAMMING COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 5-12, 2-6-2012)
ARTICLE C. CABLE REGULATORY COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 5-12, 2-6-2012)
CHAPTER 4
GAS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
11-4-1: Definitions
11-4-2: Grant Of Franchise
11-4-3: Street Usage
11-4-4: Excavations And Other Works; Vacated Property
11-4-5: Relocation Of Pipes, Conduit And Services; Public Improvements
11-4-6: Accessions To Franchise
11-4-7: Condition Of Service
11-4-8: Regulatory Review
11-4-9: Reserved Regulatory Rights
11-4-10: Technological Changes; Energy Efficiency
11-4-11: Extension Of Service
11-4-12: Rates
11-4-13: Reports
11-4-14: Maps Of Distribution System
11-4-15: Indemnification
11-4-16: Nonassignment
11-4-17: Material Breach; Termination
11-4-18: Severability
11-4-19: Revival
11-4-20: Reservation Of Home Rule Powers
11-4-21: Acquisition At Expiration
11-4-22: Franchise Fee Overview
11-4-23: Franchise Fee
11-4-24: Adoption; Franchise Effective And Binding
11-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this chapter, they shall be
intended and held to have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CITY: The City of Dubuque, Iowa.
COMPANY: Black Hills/Iowa Gas Utility Company, LLC dba Black Hills Energy, a
Delaware Corporation, its successors and assigns.
FRANCHISE: The grant of authority contained in this chapter as accepted by the
company.
GRANTEE: Black Hills/Iowa Gas Utility Company, LLC dba Black Hills Energy, a
Delaware Corporation, its successors and assigns.
IOWA UTILITIES BOARD: The Utilities Board or Utilities Division established by
Iowa Code chapter 474 (or its successor).
MIXED GAS: Natural gas mixed with other combustible gases by company to augment
the company's gas supply.
STREET: Streets, alleys, bridges, avenues, highways and other similar public
places used for transportation purposes within the City. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-
2018)
11-4-2: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   There is hereby granted to Black Hills/Iowa Gas Utility Company, LLC
dba Black Hills Energy, a Delaware Corporation (the company), its successors
and assigns, for a period of twenty five (25) years a nonexclusive authority to
maintain and operate its existing gas distribution system and construct
extensions thereto within the limits of the City including any areas added to
the City by annexation or otherwise, together with all necessary facilities and
equipment (mains, piping and appurtenances) in, upon, over, across, and along
the streets of the City for the transmission, distribution and sale of natural
gas or mixed gas therein.
   B.   The company is granted the right to exercise powers of eminent domain.
   C.   The City Council reserves to itself the right to extend this franchise
to specific areas or corridors within parks at the request of the company.
   D.   The City further reserves to itself the right to produce, supply,
transmit, sell, or transport pipeline quality biogas produced from City,
affiliate 28E organizations, or City's subcontractors. City may distribute
pipeline quality biogas to City or affiliate 28E organization facilities, but
City shall not distribute pipeline quality biogas to third-party customer
facilities. City shall be allowed to produce, supply, transmit, sell,
transport, or distribute non-pipeline quality biogas, commonly referred to as
"dirty" gas, to City or affiliate 28E organization facilities or to third-party
customer facilities. The company shall transport gas purchased or produced by
the City over the company's system in accordance with applicable rules, laws
and the company's natural gas tariff on file with the Iowa Utilities Board.
Company shall not be required to extend or expand its system if such extension
or expansion does not comply with company's feasibility model. (Ord. 17-18, 5-
21-2018)
11-4-3: STREET USAGE:
   A.   The City reserves to itself the power to impose reasonable regulations
on the company's use of streets. The company shall not locate any new or
reconstructed gas service lines or other improvements of any kind within the
City in the public rights- of-way without the approval of the City. The company
agrees to consult with the City as to the location of any new high pressure gas
pipelines carrying a pressure of seventy (70) pounds or more that will be
outside the City limits which will serve the City, and use its best efforts to
place such lines so they will be compatible with any impacted zoning, economic
development, growth and other plans of the City.
   B.   In the use of right-of-way under this franchise, the company shall be
subject to all rules, regulations, policies, resolutions and ordinances now or
hereafter adopted or promulgated by the City in the reasonable exercise of its
police power. In addition, the company shall be subject to all rules,
regulations, policies, resolutions, and ordinances now or hereafter adopted or
promulgated by the City relating to permits, sidewalk and pavement cuts,
utility location, construction coordination, screening, and other requirements
on the use of the right-of-way; provided, however, that nothing contained
herein shall constitute a waiver of or be construed as waiving the right of the
company to oppose, challenge, or seek judicial review of, in such manner as is
now or may hereafter be provided by law, any such rules, regulation, policy,
resolution, and ordinance proposed, adopted, or promulgated by the City.
Further, the company shall comply with the following.
   C.   All facilities placed above ground in street right-of-way after the
date hereof shall be located behind the sidewalk where feasible and screened
from public view in a manner that will not interfere with ADA requirements or
cause visibility issues as determined by the City Engineer. Upon request of the
company, the original screening materials may be provided by the City or the
City's contractor at the company's expense in conjunction with and as part of
the City program for right-of- way maintenance. At the request of the company,
the City or adjacent property owner will thereafter maintain such original
screening materials at the City's own expense and/or direction provided that
the City made the selection of or subsequently approves the materials so
maintained. Notwithstanding the above, the company shall use its best efforts
to provide that all facilities constructed, replaced, or relocated in the
right-of-way after the date hereof shall be placed underground unless, because
of the nature of the facility or the standard construction or operating
practices of the company, the company requests such facilities be placed above
ground. Upon such request, the City Engineer or Right-of-Way Coordinator shall
review and approve the plans for the above ground placement of facilities in
accordance with reasonable procedures established by the City, and subject to
such reasonable conditions as the City may establish for public safety,
appearance, or coordination with public improvements. Further, where
reasonable, practical, and appropriate and where adequate right-of-way exists,
the company shall screen or shall place above-ground facilities underground in
conjunction with City capital improvement projects and/or at specific locations
requested by the City provided that such placement is practical, efficient, and
economically feasible.
   D.   The City encourages the conservation of right-of-way by the sharing of
space by all utilities. Notwithstanding provision of this franchise prohibiting
third party use, to the extent required by Federal or State law, the company
will permit any other franchised entity by appropriate contract or agreement
negotiated by the parties to use any and all facilities constructed or erected
by the company. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-4: EXCAVATIONS AND OTHER WORKS; VACATED PROPERTY:
   A.   In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public
places, the company shall not unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets,
avenues, alleys or public places. The company in making any such excavations
shall, if required by ordinance, obtain a City permit therefor and shall not
unnecessarily obstruct the use of streets, avenues, alleys, or public places
and shall provide the City Manager or City Manager's designee or such other
person as the City may designate with twenty four (24) hours' notice prior to
the actual commencement of the work, and shall comply with all provisions and
requirements of the City in its regulation of the use of City right-of-way in
performing such work. In emergencies which require immediate excavation, the
company may proceed with the work without first applying for or obtaining a
permit, provided, however, that the company shall apply for and obtain an
excavation permit as soon as possible after commencing such emergency work. The
company shall comply with all provisions and requirements of the City in its
regulation of the use of City right-of-way in performing any excavations. The
company shall comply with all City ordinances regarding paving cuts, placement
of facilities and restoration of pavement and other public infrastructure. The
company shall replace the surface, restoring the condition as existed prior to
the company's excavation, but shall not be required to improve or modify the
public right-of-way unless said improvement is necessary to meet a SUDAS
(Statewide Urban Design and Specifications) standard, a requirement of the
Americans With Disabilities Act, or any other standard mandated by State or
Federal law, provided however, if any improvement is requested or required for
aesthetic, cosmetic or similar purposes not mandated by State or Federal law
the City shall reimburse the company the incremental cost of such improvements.
The company shall complete all repairs in a timely and prompt manner. Company
agrees any replacement of road surface shall conform to current City ordinances
regarding its depth and composition.
   B.   The City when vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground or public
right-of-way shall not deprive the company of its right to operate and maintain
existing facilities and their replacements on, below, above, or beneath the
vacated property. Prior to the City abandoning or vacating any street, avenue,
alley, right-of-way or other public ground where the company has facilities,
the City shall grant the company a utility easement for said facilities. This
section shall not apply to the realignment, reconstruction, or vacation of
streets or alleys in a designated urban renewal area; provided, however, the
City shall identify, reserve and make available alternate locations for
facilities to serve the designated urban renewal area consistent with the
technical needs of the company. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-5: RELOCATION OF PIPES, CONDUIT AND SERVICES; PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Whenever the City shall pave or repave any street or shall change the
grade line of any street or public place or shall construct or reconstruct any
conduit, water main service or water connection, sewer or other Municipal
public works or utility, it shall be the duty of the company, when so ordered
by the City, to change its mains, services and other property in the streets or
other public places at its own expense so as to conform to the established
grade or line of such street or public place and so as not to interfere with
the conduits, sewers, Municipal public works or utilities, and other mains so
constructed or reconstructed. However, the company shall not be required to
relocate pipes, mains and appurtenances when the street, alley or public
grounds, in which they are located, is vacated for the convenience of abutting
property owners and not as an incident to a public improvement, unless the
reasonable cost of such relocation and the loss and expense resulting therefrom
is first paid to the company by the abutting property owners. In the case of
public improvements, including, but not limited to, urban renewal projects, the
City may require the company to relocate pipes, mains, services and
appurtenances in the streets at company's expense.
   B.   The City may at its discretion assign personnel for inspection of
excavation and related work being performed by the company. Should the company
fail or refuse to do and perform the things provided in this chapter, the City
may, after reasonable notice, perform the work and charge the reasonable and
necessary expense thereof to the company and the company shall promptly pay
said charges.
   C.   In the event the company is required to move, remove or modify the
placement of any of its facilities located within the City because of any
public improvement or public purposes of the City, the company shall do so at
its own expenses as directed by the City. In planning for the extension or
modification of streets and roads, the City shall, to the extent practicable in
the discretion of its Public Works Director, design such changes to limit the
need for the relocation of company facilities.
   D.   The City may require the company for the purposes of facilitating the
construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the street, avenue,
right-of-way or alley, public places or grounds in accord with the ordinances
of the City at the company's cost and expense in accordance with Iowa law,
including company's tariff on file with and made effective by the Iowa
Utilities Board as may subsequently be amended, to construct, replace, repair,
locate and relocate its existing facilities or equipment in, on, over or under
any public street, avenue, right-of-way, alley, public places or grounds in the
City in such a manner as the City may reasonably require, except the company
shall not be required to construct, replace, repair, locate and relocate
existing facilities where company facilities are located in private easements
(whether titled in the company or other entities) unless said private easement
is upon land owned by the City.
   E.   If the City orders or requests the company to relocate its existing
facilities or equipment for any reason other than as specified above, or as the
result of the initial request of a commercial or other nonpublic development,
the company shall receive payment for the cost of such relocation as a
precondition to relocating its existing facilities or equipment.
   F.   The company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense,
company facilities in the public right-of-way that have been relocated at
company expense at the direction of the City in the previous two (2) years.
   G.   The City shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public
works projects so as not arbitrarily to cause the company unreasonable
additional expense in exercising its authority under this section. The City
shall also provide a reasonable alternative location for the company's
facilities as part of its relocation request. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-6: ACCESSIONS TO FRANCHISE:
The company shall maintain the availability of service throughout the entire
City including newly annexed areas. The company shall furnish gas in sufficient
quantities to supply the reasonable demands of the City and the inhabitants
thereof and including industrial users in accordance with the regulations and
conditions of service as approved by the Iowa Utilities Board. (Ord. 17-18, 5-
21-2018)
11-4-7: CONDITION OF SERVICE:
The company agrees to provide and maintain its entire plant and system in such
condition that it will furnish safe, adequate, efficient and continuous
service. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-8: REGULATORY REVIEW:
   A.   To the extent the provisions of this section are consistent with State
and Federal law and regulation, the rights described in this section are
reserved to the City and may be exercised by it in its discretion in accord
with the duty of the City to protect the health and welfare of its citizens.
   B.   Company shall, at all times, maintain an adequate pressure and adequate
supply of clean, standard gas of the British thermal unit heating value of not
less than that prescribed in its rules and regulations relating thereto in
effect and on file from time to time with the Iowa Utilities Board or other
competent authority having jurisdiction in the premises. Should the British
thermal units fall below the limitation set forth in its appropriate rules and
regulations, the rate then in effect shall be automatically and correspondingly
lowered and reduced during any period or periods of time in which such lower
British thermal unit value shall be furnished. The City shall have the
privilege of requesting company to furnish satisfactory proof of British
thermal unit content of the gas.
   C.   Gas furnished to consumers under this franchise shall be pipeline
quality natural gas except that it shall contain some element or compound with
an easily detected odor in an amount sufficient to be noticeable when the gas
is released, but not sufficient to be harmful to human or animal life or to
interfere with combustion.
   D.   All gas service shall be supplied through a meter which shall
accurately measure the amount of gas supplied to a consumer. The consumer shall
supply a safe and proper place for the installation of each such meter.
Standards for meters and meter practices shall be in accordance with
regulations, rules or directives adopted by the Iowa Utilities Board. (Ord. 17-
18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-9: RESERVED REGULATORY RIGHTS:
In the event the State of Iowa or the United States ceases to regulate any
aspect of the delivery of gas service now regulated by either or both, the City
reserves the right upon such cessation to regulate such matters to the extent
such matters are local affairs impacting the health, safety or welfare of
residents of the City. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-10: TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES; ENERGY EFFICIENCY:
   A.   Should, within the period of this franchise, developments within the
field of power or heating substances offer to the company the opportunity to
more effectively, efficiently and economically serve its customers through use
of a substance or material other than natural gas, then the company may
petition the City Council which, with such requirements or limitations as it
deems necessary to protect public health, safety and welfare, allow the gas of
such substances under the terms and conditions of this franchise.
   B.   The company shall be allowed to mix other combustible gases with
natural gas for distribution within the City as such mixture may be
advantageous to the operation of the company. Such use of mixed gas, however,
shall not relieve the company of its obligations under this franchise.
   C.   The City and affiliate 28E organizations, intend to develop and/or
partner on development of alternative energy implementation strategies (BioCNG
at the Water & Resource Recovery Center [W&RRC] and Dubuque Metropolitan Area
Solid Waste Agency [DMASWA] are examples). Black Hills Energy agrees to
cooperate in the development of these projects to make them as effective and
efficient as reasonably possible. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-11: EXTENSION OF SERVICE:
   A.   The company shall be required to extend its gas distribution system in
accordance with rules and regulations relating to customer connections and main
and service line extensions currently in effect and on file from time to time
with the Iowa Utilities Board or other competent authority having jurisdiction.
Whenever the distribution system is so extended, those mains and service lines
that are beneath streets and roads constructed by the City or a private
developer within the City limits, and the pavement constructed with hot mix
asphalt, the company shall have all the mains and service lines extended out of
the pavement area before the final lift of asphalt is installed. If the
pavement is constructed with concrete, the service lines may be extended after
the pavement is completed. All pavement repairs shall be full depth and
replaced in full panel sections according to the City excavation policy and
approved by the City Engineer.
   B.   The City may, in the extension or modification of streets and roads,
make provision for the placement of company service lines and facilities on
City owned right-of-way without charge to company. In the event such an area is
provided, the company must utilize the area provided for placement of its
service lines and facilities as directed by the City or other reasonable
location provided by the company. Nothing in this franchise shall be construed
as a guarantee that in either existing right-of-way or in future acquired
right-of-way the City will provide sufficient space for any particular need by
the company nor shall the City be required to obtain additional right-of-way
solely for the use of the company. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-12: RATES:
   A.   The company shall supply gas to consumers within the City at reasonable
rates. It is recognized that under the statutes of the State of Iowa, the Iowa
Utilities Board of the Iowa Department of Commerce is vested with legal
authority to supervise, fix or change rates and charges authorized to be
charged by the company to gas consumers. It is also recognized by both the
company and the City that matters involving rate changes and charges are local
in their application and effect and that the City, through its City Council,
shall be within its privileges and Municipal responsibilities in making
inquiries, expressing interest or adopting position on matters of rate changes
or charges by the company.
   B.   In the event rates or charges in general, or any class or type of rate
or charge shall, during the term of this franchise, cease to be regulated by
any State or Federal agency, the City Council reserves the right to regulate
such rates within the City. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-13: REPORTS:
The company shall file with the City Council a true copy of the annual report
of the company pertaining to the operation or conduct of business of the
company under this franchise. The report may be the same as the company shall
have prepared for such year in the ordinary course of the conduct of the
business of the company and filed with the Iowa Utilities Board. (Ord. 17-18,
5-21-2018)
11-4-14: MAPS OF DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM:
   A.   The company shall, promptly after the award of this franchise, furnish
the City Engineer one electronic copy, in format and datum compatible with
City's GIS program, policies and procedures, including confidentiality,
detailed map or maps of its distribution system both within the City limits and
the area immediately surrounding the City. Such maps shall include, but not be
limited to, standard facilities showing the location of above-ground and
underground natural gas facilities, to be used for design and planning only.
The company shall thereafter update the map or maps every year showing all
subsequent additions or deletions to the distribution system, with GIS
compatible maps to the City. However, prior to any excavation by the City or
its agents, a City representative must contact the company regarding current
information on the location of gas mains or gas laterals in the area concerned.
The obligation to contact the company under this section shall be satisfied if
contact is made with a corporation organized pursuant to Iowa Code chapter 480
(1993) or an entity with a similar function utilized by both the City and the
company.
   B.   The company and City recognize the information may in whole or part be
considered a confidential record under State or Federal law or both. Therefore,
the City shall not release any information without prior consent of the company
and shall return the information to company upon request. The City recognizes
that company claims the information may constitute a trade secret or is
otherwise protected from public disclosure by State or Federal law on other
grounds and agrees to protect the information to the extent allowed by State or
Federal law. Furthermore, the City agrees that no documents, maps or
information provided to the City by the company shall be made available to the
public or other entities if such documents or information are exempt from
disclosure under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission critical energy infrastructure requirements
pursuant to 18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as
such statutes and regulations may be amended from time to time. In the event a
request is made to the City for any such documents or information and the City
Attorney determines in his or her sole discretion that such documents or
information is not exempt from disclosure or any action at law, in equity or
administrative is brought against the City regarding disclosure of any document
which the company has designated as a trade secret or as otherwise protected
from disclosure the City shall promptly notify the company. The company may
take such action as it deems necessary to prevent such disclosure, and in the
event the company fails to take any such action within ten (10) business days
after receipt of such notice, the City may disclose the documents or
information without any liability of any kind to the company. (Ord. 17-18, 5-
21-2018)
11-4-15: INDEMNIFICATION:
The company shall indemnify and hold the City harmless at all times during the
term of this franchise from and against all claims for injury or damage to
persons or property caused by the construction, erection, operation or
maintenance of its properties, or the negligence of company contractors or
company employees; provided, however, that the company need not save the City
harmless from claims, demands, losses and expenses arising out of negligence of
City, its employees or agents. Furthermore, the City agrees to indemnify and
hold the company harmless at all times during the term of this franchise from
any and all claims related to the use of company maps for locating purposes
instead of complying with Iowa Code chapter 480 (1993) or improper disclosure
of company maps as described in section
11-4-14 of this chapter. In case of any suit or action at law being commenced
against the City, upon any claim for damage arising out of any loss, injury or
damage, claimed to have been caused by any installation, improvement,
obstruction or excavation in any street, alley, sidewalk or public place in the
City of Dubuque, and which installation, improvement, obstruction or excavation
was made or left, in, under or upon such street, sidewalk, alley or public
place by said company, its agents, contractors or employees, upon being
notified by said City of such action or proceeding, said company shall appear
and make proper defense thereto; and if any judgment or decree shall in any
such case be rendered against the City therein, said company hereby agrees to
assume, pay and satisfy such judgment or decree, with the costs thereof. (Ord.
17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-16: NONASSIGNMENT:
   A.   No sale, assignment or lease of this franchise shall be effective until
it is approved by the City Council and until the company has filed in the
Office of the City Clerk written notice of the proposed sale, transfer,
disposition or assignment, such notice to clearly summarize the proposed
procedure and the terms and conditions thereof. Such approval by the City shall
not be unreasonably withheld. The proposed vendor, assignee or lessee shall
similarly file an instrument, duly executed, reciting such proposal, accepting
the terms of this franchise and agreeing to perform all the conditions thereof.
   B.   This provision shall not apply to sales, assignments, or transfers made
pursuant to a corporate reorganization, divestiture or consolidation or to a
sale of all or substantially all of the gas distribution properties of the
company. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-17: MATERIAL BREACH; TERMINATION:
Either City or company ("party") may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non- breaching party shall provide the breaching party
with notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The
breaching party shall have sixty (60) days to cure the breach, unless it
notifies the non-breaching party, and the parties agree upon a longer period
for cure. If the breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching
party may terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in
breach of this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or Federal
law. A party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the
alleged breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other
party. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-18: SEVERABILITY:
If any section or provision of this chapter is held invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect the validity of any other
provisions of this chapter which can be given effect without the invalid
portion or portions and to this end each section and provision of this chapter
is severable. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-19: REVIVAL:
The parties recognize that over the duration of this franchise both
technological and regulatory changes will take place which will impact the
enforceability of this chapter or parts of it. In recognition of such factors,
the parties agree that in the event portions of this chapter which are now, or
in the future, are found or declared inapplicable or unenforceable, become
through a subsequent change in law or technology again to be applicable or
enforceable, such provisions shall be revived and again form a portion of this
chapter. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-20: RESERVATION OF HOME RULE POWERS:
This chapter is intended to be and shall be construed as consistent with the
reservation of local authority contained in the Twenty Fifth Amendment to the
Iowa Constitution granting municipalities home rule powers. To such end, any
limitation on the power of the City is to be strictly construed and the City
reserves to itself the right to exercise all power and authority to regulate
and control its local affairs, and all ordinances and regulations of the City
shall be enforceable against the company unless, and only to the extent, they
are irreconcilable with any rights granted the company under this franchise.
(Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-21: ACQUISITION AT EXPIRATION:
If at the expiration of this franchise the company wishes no longer to operate
the gas service system within the City or to sell, assign or lease the system
to a third party, then the company shall upon the City's request, given not
earlier than one hundred eighty (180) days before expiration or more than
ninety (90) days after, sell the gas distribution system to the City at a price
determined by a mutually agreeable appraiser, or if the parties cannot, within
sixty (60) days of notice, agree upon an appraiser, then they shall each
appoint an appraiser and the appraisers shall appoint a third, the price shall
then be the price the appraisers agree upon, or if they do not agree within
sixty (60) days of being appointed, the price shall be the average of the two
(2) appraisals which are closest in dollar amount. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-22: FRANCHISE FEE OVERVIEW:
   A.   The franchise fee, see section
11-4-23 of this chapter, presently imposed by the City upon the company under
ordinance 59-03 as amended by ordinance nos. 76-03, 08-10, 07-14, 02-15, and
15-15, shall continue under this franchise. In addition, the City is authorized
to impose by ordinance a franchise fee up to the amount allowed by Iowa law
upon the gross revenue generated from sales of gas by the company within the
corporate limits of the City. The company and City agree that the City Council
may in its discretion increase the franchise fee by ordinance, without further
consent from the company, provided no increase shall exceed the maximum
franchise fee allowed by Iowa law. Upon notice, the company shall promptly seek
a tax rider tariff from the Iowa Utilities Board and the company shall begin
collecting the franchise fee and any increased fee upon receipt of written
approval of the required tax rider tariff from the Iowa Utilities Board. The
City shall provide to the company's Iowa franchise manager, by certified mail,
copies of annexation ordinances and all new property addresses to which the
franchise fee will be applied. The company shall commence collecting the
franchise fee in the annexed areas sixty (60) days thereafter.
   B.   The company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or
refund any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted
to the City. In the event the company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City's imposition of franchise fees or the
company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall
reimburse the company for the expenses incurred by the company to provide such
data or information. (Ord. 17-18, 5-21-2018)
11-4-23: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   The City Council may impose a franchise fee not to exceed five percent
(5%) of the gross revenue of the company generated from the sale of natural and
mixed gas within the City.
      1.   For purposes of this section gross revenue shall include in addition
to revenue from direct sales of natural or mixed gas to customers, the gross
revenue derived by the company from the transmission, transportation or
distribution of natural or mixed gas sold to customers by suppliers other than
the company through the company's distribution system within the City.
      2.   Any franchise fee imposed by the City shall be a direct charge to
customers to the extent required by the Iowa Utilities Board.
   B.   The company shall on the fifteenth day of each month, provide to the
City Manager in a form reasonably acceptable to the City Manager records
establishing the gross revenue from the sale or transportation of natural and
mixed gas by the company within the City of Dubuque for the preceding month and
shall pay the fee to the City within thirty (30) days following the last day of
the preceding month.
   C.   Any rebate of franchise fees which may have been available under any
prior amendment or ordinance which was not paid prior to July 1, 2013, is
declared void and any claim for any such rebate shall not be honored or paid by
the City.
   D.   If for any reason the time and manner of collecting, or any aspect of
the franchise fee, is challenged by or before the Iowa Utilities Board, company
shall promptly give notice to City and the company shall, in any case,
diligently and continuously exercise its efforts to sustain said fee and
payments and the time and manner of its collection. If at any time the Iowa
Utilities Board, or any other authority having proper jurisdiction, prohibits
the City from imposing the franchise fee called for herein, the company will no
longer be obligated to collect and pay the franchise fee herein.
City shall have access to and the right to examine, during normal business
hours, company's books, receipts, files, records and documents as is reasonably
necessary to verify the accuracy of payments due hereunder; provided, that City
shall not exercise such right more than twice per calendar year. If it is
determined that a mistake was made in the payment of any franchise fee required
hereunder, such mistake shall be corrected promptly upon discovery such that
any underpayment by company shall be paid within thirty (30) days of
recalculation of the amount due, and any overpayment by company shall be
deducted from the next payment of such franchise fee due by such company to
City; provided, that neither party shall have the obligation to correct a
mistake that is discovered more than one year after the occurrence thereof. The
City agrees to save harmless the company, its employees or agents from and
against all claims, demands, losses and expenses arising out of the collection
of the franchise fee from the company's customers or in remitting the franchise
fee amounts collected to the City; provided, however, that the City shall not
be required to save harmless the company from claims, demands, losses and
expenses arising out of the negligence of the company, its employees or agents.
   E.   The amount billed by the company for the sale of natural gas or mixed
gas to its customers may be adjusted for any net write off of uncollectible
accounts and corrections of bills theretofore rendered, and past or future
franchise fees remitted to the City may be adjusted accordingly by the company
to reflect the lawful or necessary correction to billing and collection from
its customers for natural gas sold within the corporate limits of the City.
   F.   Within ten (10) days of the date of this section, the City shall
provide the company with a map of its corporate limits (the "map"). The map
shall be of sufficient detail to assist company in determining whether its
customers reside within the City's corporate limits. The map along with
company's geographic information system ("GIS") mapping information shall serve
as the sole basis for determining company's obligation hereunder to collect and
pay the franchise fee from customers; provided, however, that if the City's
corporate limits are changed by annexation or otherwise, it shall be the City's
sole responsibility to: 1) update the map so that such changes are included
therein, and 2) provide the updated map to the company. Company's obligation to
collect and pay the franchise fee from customers within an annexed area shall
not commence until the later: 1) of sixty (60) days after such company's
receipt from the City of an updated map including such annexed area, or 2) such
time after such company's receipt from the City of an updated map including
such annexed area as is reasonably necessary for company to identify the
customers in the annexed area obligated to pay the franchise fee. City shall
indemnify company from claims of any nature, including attorney fees, arising
out of or related to the imposition and collection of the franchise fee. In
addition, company shall not be liable for collecting franchise fees from any
customer originally or subsequently identified, or incorrectly identified, by
City or by company as being subject to the franchise fee or being subject to a
different level of franchise fees or being exempt from the imposition of
franchise fees.
The City shall provide copies of annexation ordinances to the company on a
timely basis to ensure appropriate franchise fee collection from customers
within the corporate limits of the City.
   G.   The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this section
shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this
section, which shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 2-15, 1-20-2015)
11-4-24: ADOPTION; FRANCHISE EFFECTIVE AND BINDING:
This franchise and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with Iowa law
and the written acceptance by the company. The City shall provide company with
an original signed and sealed copy of this franchise within ten (10) days of
its final passage. The company shall, within thirty (30) days after the City
Council approval of this franchise, file in the Office of the Clerk of the
City, its acceptance in writing of all the terms and provisions of this
franchise. Following City Council approval, this franchise shall be published
in accordance with the Code of Iowa. In the event company does not file its
written acceptance of this franchise within thirty (30) days after its approval
by the City Council this franchise shall be void and of no effect. (Ord. 17-18,
5-21-2018)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRIC FRANCHISES
ARTICLE A. INTERSTATE POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY
SECTION:
11-5A-1: Grant Of Franchise
11-5A-2: Placement Of Equipment
11-5A-3: Streets
11-5A-4: Excavations
11-5A-5: Vacated Property
11-5A-6: Streetlights
11-5A-7: Service Availability
11-5A-8: Requested Information
11-5A-9: Pruning And Removal Of Trees
11-5A-10: Indemnification
11-5A-11: Fee
11-5A-12: Right Of Way
11-5A-13: Public Improvements
11-5A-14: Annual Report
11-5A-15: Distribution Poles
11-5A-16: Energy Efficiency
11-5A-17: Report
11-5A-18: Real Estate
11-5A-19: Home Rule Authority
11-5A-20: Material Breach
11-5A-21: Severability
11-5A-22: Franchise Effective And Binding
11-5A-1: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
There is hereby granted to Interstate Power And Light Company (hereinafter
called "company"), and to its successors and assigns, the right and
nonexclusive franchise to acquire, construct, reconstruct, replace, erect,
maintain and operate in the city of Dubuque, Iowa (hereinafter called the
"city"), a system for the distribution of electric energy along, under, over
and upon the streets, avenues, rights of way, alleys, public places or public
grounds (excluding parks) to serve customers within the city, and to furnish
and sell electric energy to the city and its inhabitants. The city council
reserves to itself the right to extend this franchise to specific areas or
corridors within parks at the request of the company. The company is granted
the right to exercise powers of eminent domain. This franchise shall be
effective for a twenty five (25) year period from and after the effective date
hereof. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-2: PLACEMENT OF EQUIPMENT:
The company shall have the right to erect all necessary poles and to place
thereon and attach thereto the necessary wires, guys, anchors, fixtures and
accessories as well as to excavate and bury conduits or conductors and related
equipment and appurtenances for the distribution of electric energy in and
through the city, provided the same shall be placed in accord with this
franchise and this code and regulations of the city of Dubuque regarding the
placement, replacement, repair or construction of structures, facilities,
accessories or other objects in the right of way by utilities and other users
of the right of way, including ordinances which assign corridors or other
placements to users of the right of way and requirements which may be adopted
regarding separations of structures, facilities, accessories or other objects.
(Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-3: STREETS:
The city may require the company for the purposes of facilitating the
construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the street, avenue,
right of way or alley, public places or grounds in accord with the ordinances
of the city at the company's cost and expense in accordance with Iowa law,
including company's tariff on file with and made effective by the Iowa
utilities board as may subsequently be amended, to construct, replace, repair,
locate and relocate its existing facilities or equipment in, on, over or under
any public street, avenue, right of way, alley, public places or grounds in the
city in such a manner as the city may reasonably require, except the company
shall not be required to construct, replace, repair, locate and relocate
existing facilities where company facilities are located in private easements
(whether titled in the company or other entities) unless said private easement
is upon land owned by the city.
If the city orders or requests the company to relocate its existing facilities
or equipment for any reason other than as specified above, or as the result of
the initial request of a commercial or other nonpublic development, the company
shall receive payment for the cost of such relocation as a precondition to
relocating its existing facilities or equipment.
The company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense, company
facilities in the public right of way that have been relocated at company
expense at the direction of the city in the previous three (3) years.
The city shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works
projects so as not arbitrarily to cause the company unreasonable additional
expense in exercising its authority under this section. The city shall also
provide a reasonable alternative location for the company's facilities as part
of its relocation request. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-4: EXCAVATIONS:
In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public places for the
installation, maintenance or repair of any conductor, conduit or other
appurtenance or the erection of poles and wires or other appliances, the
company shall not unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets, avenues, alleys
or public places. The company in making any such excavations shall, if required
by ordinance, obtain a city permit therefor and shall not unnecessarily
obstruct the use of streets, avenues, alleys, or public places and shall
provide the city manager or city manager's designee or such other person as the
city may designate with twenty four (24) hours' notice prior to the actual
commencement of the work, and shall comply with all provisions and requirements
of the city in its regulation of the use of city right of way in performing
such work. In emergencies which require immediate excavation, the company may
proceed with the work without first applying for or obtaining a permit,
provided, however, that the company shall apply for and obtain an excavation
permit as soon as possible after commencing such emergency work. The company
shall comply with all provisions and requirements of the city in its regulation
of the use of city right of way in performing any excavations. The company
shall comply with all city ordinances regarding paving cuts, placement of
facilities and restoration of pavement and other public infrastructure. The
company shall replace the surface, restoring the condition as existed prior to
the company's excavation, but shall not be required to improve or modify the
public right of way unless said improvement is necessary to meet a SUDAS
(statewide urban design and specifications) standard, a requirement of the
Americans with disabilities act, or any other standard mandated by state or
federal law, provided however, if any improvement is requested or required for
aesthetic, cosmetic or similar purposes not mandated by state or federal law
the city shall reimburse the company the incremental cost of such improvements.
The company shall complete all repairs in a timely and prompt manner. Company
agrees any replacement of road surface shall conform to current city ordinances
regarding its depth and composition. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-5: VACATED PROPERTY:
The city when vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground or public right
of way shall not deprive the company of its right to operate and maintain
existing facilities and their replacements on, below, above, or beneath the
vacated property. Prior to the city abandoning or vacating any street, avenue,
alley, right of way or other public ground where the company has electric
facilities, the city shall grant the company a utility easement for said
facilities. This section shall not apply to the realignment, reconstruction, or
vacation of streets or alleys in a designated urban renewal area; provided,
however, the city shall identify, reserve and make available alternate
locations for facilities to serve the designated urban renewal area consistent
with the technical needs of the company. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-6: STREETLIGHTS:
The company agrees that, unless there are extenuating circumstances because of
damage, supply shortage or other reason beyond the company's control, the
company shall replace any streetlight which is burned out or otherwise not
functioning within ten (10) days of receipt of written notice specifying the
streetlight in need of replacement or repair. If because of extenuating
circumstances the company will not be able to replace or repair a streetlight
within ten (10) days after notice, the company shall notify the city within ten
(10) days of the receipt of written notice from the city what the extenuating
circumstances are, including a date when the streetlight will be repaired or
replaced.
The company shall adopt a program and provide a written copy to the city, under
which the company will convert all streetlights in the city to light emitting
diode (LED) lights within five (5) years of the effective date of this
franchise. The parties agree that should an improved technology be developed
and commercially reasonable during this franchise, thereafter, the company may,
at its option, substitute different lighting technologies that provide an
amount and quality of light that is at least equal to that provided by the LED
technology. Before installing any such substitute technology, the company must
obtain the city's approval, such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-7: SERVICE AVAILABILITY:
The company shall maintain the availability of service throughout the entire
city including newly annexed areas, but excluding areas designated by the Iowa
utilities board to be the exclusive service territory of another electric
provider, by extending lines or facilities in a manner consistent with Iowa
law. The company shall furnish electric energy in sufficient quantities to
supply the reasonable demands of the city and the inhabitants thereof and
including industrial users in accordance with the regulations and conditions of
service as approved by the Iowa utilities board. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-8: REQUESTED INFORMATION:
Upon reasonable request the company shall provide the city, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right of way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in city right of way, including documents, maps and
other information in paper or electronic or other forms ("information"). The
company shall also provide upon request of the city information including
mapping data indicating the horizontal and vertical locations, relative to the
boundaries of the right of way, of all equipment which the company owns or over
which it has control and which is located in any right of way. With respect to
equipment which was in place as of December 31, 1998, the company may satisfy
this requirement by providing copies of maps showing equipment locations which
were developed and kept by the company in the ordinary course of business,
provided that if such maps do not show the location of all such existing
equipment, the company will be required to field locate equipment not shown on
such maps and provide mapping data for such equipment provided that respect to
equipment which the company placed within the right of way after December 31,
1998, the company shall provide mapping data with the specificity and in the
format required by the city for inclusion in the mapping system used by the
city, as more specifically provided in the city's utility accommodation and
street restoration specifications. The company and city recognize the
information may in whole or part be considered a confidential record under
state or federal law or both. Therefore, the city shall not release any
information without prior consent of the company and shall return the
information to company upon request. The city recognizes that company claims
the information may constitute a trade secret or is otherwise protected from
public disclosure by state or federal law on other grounds and agrees to
protect the information to the extent allowed by state or federal law.
Furthermore, the city agrees that no documents, maps or information provided to
the city by the company shall be made available to the public or other entities
if such documents or information are exempt from disclosure under the
provisions of the freedom of information act, the federal energy regulatory
commission critical energy infrastructure requirements pursuant to 18 CFR
388.112 and 388.113, or chapter 22 of the code of Iowa, as such statutes and
regulations may be amended from time to time. In the event any action at law,
in equity or administrative is brought against the city regarding disclosure of
any document which the company has designated as a trade secret or as otherwise
protected from disclosure the city shall promptly notify the company. The
company shall have the right to assume the defense of said action. The company
shall reimburse the city any and all costs, including attorney fees and
penalties, to the extent allowed by law which may result from any said action.
(Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-9: PRUNING AND REMOVAL OF TREES:
The pruning and removal of trees shall be done in accordance with current
nationally accepted safety and utility industry standards and federal and state
law, rules and regulations. The company is authorized and empowered to prune or
remove at company expense, any tree extending into any street, avenue, right of
way, alley, public place or public grounds to maintain electric reliability,
safety, to restore utility service and to prevent limbs, branches, or trunks
from interfering with the wires and facilities of the company. The pruning and
removal of trees shall be completed in accordance with nationally accepted
safety and utility standards, currently ANSI ZI33-2012, American national
standard for arboricultural operations-safety requirements, and ANSI A300(part
1) - 2008 pruning, American national standard for tree, shrub, and other woody
plant maintenance - standard of practices pruning, and subsequent revisions to
these standards. In the event any tree is removed by the company, or is damaged
to the extent that the city forester determines the tree has lost its viability
or functionality, because the company has removed or trimmed a tree in
violation of this section, the company shall pay the city upon invoice the sum
of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) per tree, which amount shall be
adjusted annually commencing on the first anniversary of the adoption of this
franchise, and each anniversary thereafter by the change in percentage in the
United States bureau of labor statistics consumer price index ("CPI") as of the
applicable anniversary of this franchise compared to the CPI as of the same
date of the previous year. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-10: INDEMNIFICATION:
The company shall indemnify, save and hold harmless the city from any and all
claims, suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, including attorney fees, on
account of injury or damage to any person or property, to the extent caused or
occasioned in whole or part by the company's negligence in construction,
reconstruction, excavation, operation or maintenance of the electric facilities
authorized by this franchise; provided, however, that the company shall not be
obligated to defend, indemnify and save harmless the city for any costs or
damages to the extent arising in whole or part from the negligence of the city,
its officers, employees or agents. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-11: FEE:
The franchise fee presently imposed by the city upon the company under
ordinance 58-93 as amended shall continue under this franchise. In addition the
city is authorized to impose by ordinance a franchise fee up to the amount
allowed by Iowa law upon the gross revenue generated from sales of electricity
by the company within the corporate limits of the city. The company and city
agree that the city council may in its discretion increase the franchise fee by
ordinance, without further consent from the company, provided no increase shall
exceed the maximum franchise fee allowed by Iowa law. Upon notice, the company
shall promptly seek a tax rider tariff from the Iowa utilities board and the
company shall begin collecting the franchise fee and any increased fee upon
receipt of written approval of the required tax rider tariff from the Iowa
utilities board. The city shall provide to the company's Iowa franchise
manager, by certified mail, copies of annexation ordinances and all new
property addresses to which the franchise fee will be applied. The company
shall commence collecting the franchise fee in the annexed areas sixty (60)
days thereafter.
The company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or refund
any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted to the
city. In the event the company is required to provide data or information in
defense of the city's imposition of franchise fees or the company is required
to assist the city in identifying customers or calculating any franchise fee
refunds for groups of or individual customers the city shall reimburse the
company for the expenses incurred by the company to provide such data or
information. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-12: RIGHT OF WAY:
The city may, in the extension or modification of streets and roads, make
provision for the placement of company service lines and facilities on city
owned right of way without charge to company. In the event such an area is
provided, the company must utilize the area provided for placement of its
service lines and facilities as directed by the city or other reasonable
location provided by the company. Nothing in this franchise shall be construed
as a guarantee that in either existing right of way or in future acquired right
of way the city will provide sufficient space for any particular need of the
company nor shall the city be required to obtain additional right of way solely
for the use of the company. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-13: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
In the event the company is required to move, remove or modify the placement of
any of its poles, lines, wires, conduit, conductors, fixtures, accessories,
equipment or appurtenances located within the city because of any public
improvement or public purposes of the city, the company shall do so at its own
expenses as directed by the city. In planning for the extension or modification
of streets and roads, the city shall, to the extent practicable in the
discretion of its public works director, design such changes to limit the need
for the relocation of company facilities. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-14: ANNUAL REPORT:
The company shall make an annual written report to the city manager summarizing
community contributions that benefit the people of the city which have been
made by the company or its foundation. The written report shall include the
name of each entity to which such contributions have been made, the amount of
such contribution and a comparison showing contributions for that year and the
three (3) prior years. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-15: DISTRIBUTION POLES:
The city shall be privileged upon thirty (30) days' advance notice to the
company, without charge, to make use of the distribution poles of the company
that are placed within city right of way for any city alarm, city control, or
city communication function, including city cameras, excluding any paid
subscriber services (but including any city owned cable or wire line
communication system for which use the city shall pay an amount consistent with
federal law), to the extent that such use shall not interfere with their use by
the company, but the city shall hold the company harmless from any and all
causes of action, litigation or damages arising through the placing of the
facilities of the city upon the company's poles. If at the sole discretion of
the company, it is determined that said attachments may create a clearance
violation or other hazardous situation, or that wind or other conditions may
place undue stress on specific company facilities, the city shall not be
authorized to attach to those facilities. If attachments are in place, upon
notification by the company of damage or potential damage, the city shall
promptly remove said attachments. The company will contact the city manager in
the event of an emergency. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-16: ENERGY EFFICIENCY:
The company will provide to the city energy efficiency materials and rebate
forms for display in the building permit department and other city departments
as requested by the city. The company will participate in neighborhood and
community events, when possible, and upon a request from the city or
neighborhood organization, to encourage city residents to utilize the company's
energy efficiency programs. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-17: REPORT:
The company shall make an annual written report before June 1 of each year to
the city manager summarizing the aggregate electric use in the city by sector
or type of customer. This report shall indicate the percentage of energy used
within the city derived from renewable resources. In addition, the company will
implement starting before the end of 2015 systems to promote customer choice by
providing information regarding rates and pricing and available technologies
which allow customers to make rational usage decisions and in addition shall
install systems to integrate the grid within the city to allow customers to aid
in creating system reliability and stability, and provide options for
alternative generation in coordination with the company with attention to
integrating renewable supported alternative generation which minimizes or
reduces environmental impacts, improves efficiency and reduces carbon fuel
usage. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-18: REAL ESTATE:
In the event that the company should have real estate or any interest in real
estate within the city or within two (2) miles of the then current boundaries
of the city, which it intends to sell, transfer or which it otherwise intends
to divest the company, it shall first offer to sell or transfer said property
to the city upon the terms and conditions upon which the company intends to
sell, transfer or divest itself and in no case shall the company sell, transfer
or divest itself of any said interest in real property without first offering
equal terms to the city. The city shall have ninety (90) days to respond to any
offer of sell or transfer or divestiture. The failure of the city to respond in
ninety (90) days shall be deemed a refusal by the city and the company may then
sell, transfer or otherwise divest of such real estate or interest in real
property free of any claim or hindrance by the city. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-19: HOME RULE AUTHORITY:
The city reserves to itself all home rule authority under the constitution of
Iowa. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-20: MATERIAL BREACH:
Either city or company ("party") may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the nonbreaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have sixty (60) days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the
nonbreaching party, and the parties agree upon a longer period for cure. If the
breach is not cured within the cure period, the nonbreaching party may
terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in breach of
this franchise if it has operated in compliance with state or federal law. A
party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the alleged
breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other party. (Ord.
1-15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-21: SEVERABILITY:
If any of the provisions of this franchise are for any reason declared to be
illegal or void, the lawful provisions of this franchise, which are severable
from said unlawful provisions, shall be and remain in full force and effect,
the same as if the franchise contained no illegal or void provisions. (Ord. 1-
15, 1-5-2015)
11-5A-22: FRANCHISE EFFECTIVE AND BINDING:
This article and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with Iowa law
and the written acceptance by the company. The city shall provide company with
an original signed and sealed copy of this article within ten (10) days of its
final passage. The company shall, within thirty (30) days after the city
council approval of this article, file in the office of the clerk of the city,
its acceptance in writing of all the terms and provisions of this article.
Following city council approval, this article shall be published in accordance
with the code of Iowa. The effective date of this article shall be the date of
publication. In the event company does not file its written acceptance of this
article within thirty (30) days after its approval by the city council this
article shall be void and of no effect. (Ord. 1-15, 1-5-2015)
ARTICLE B. MAQUOKETA VALLEY ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE
SECTION:
11-5B-1: Grant Of Franchise
11-5B-2: Placement Of Facilities And Equipment
11-5B-3: Streets
11-5B-4: Excavations
11-5B-5: City Vacation Of Property
11-5B-6: Street Lights
11-5B-7: Service Availability
11-5B-8: Requested Information
11-5B-9: Pruning Or Removal Of Trees
11-5B-10: Indemnification; Insurance
11-5B-11: Franchise Fee
11-5B-12: Extension Or Modification Of Streets And Roads
11-5B-13: Pole Attachment Agreement
11-5B-14: Energy Efficiency
11-5B-15: Reports To City Manager
11-5B-16: Community Contributions
11-5B-17: Sale Or Transfer Of Real Estate
11-5B-18: Home Rule Authority
11-5B-19: Material Breach
11-5B-20: Severability
11-5B-21: Franchise Effective And Binding
11-5B-1: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
There is hereby granted to Maquoketa Valley Electric Cooperative (hereinafter
called "company") and to its successors and assigns, the right and non-
exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, reconstruct, replace, erect,
maintain and operate in the City of Dubuque, Iowa (hereinafter called the
"City") a system for the distribution of electric energy and telecommunications
services through a fiber to the home network ("other services") along, under,
over and upon the streets, avenues, rights-of-way, alleys, public places or
public grounds (excluding parks) to serve customers within the City. The City
Council reserves to itself the right to extend this franchise to specific areas
or corridors within parks at the request of the company. The company is granted
the right to exercise of powers of eminent domain. This franchise shall be
effective for a twenty five (25) year period from and after the effective date
of this article. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-2: PLACEMENT OF FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT:
The company shall have the right to erect all necessary poles and to place
thereon and attach thereto the necessary wires, guys, anchors, fixtures and
accessories as well as to excavate and bury conduits or conductors and related
equipment and appurtenances for the distribution of electric energy or other
services in and through the City, provided the same shall be placed in accord
with this franchise and this Code and regulations of the City of Dubuque,
including chapter 1, "Nonfranchised Communications Systems In The Public Right-
Of- Way", of this title regarding the placement, replacement, repair or
construction of structures, facilities, accessories or other objects in the
right-of-way by utilities and other users of the right-of-way, including
ordinances which assign corridors or other placements to users of the right-of-
way and requirements which may be reasonably adopted regarding separations of
structures, facilities, accessories or other objects. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-3: STREETS:
The City may require the company for the purposes of facilitating the
construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the street, avenue,
right-of-way or alley, public places or grounds in accord with the ordinances
of the City at the company's cost and expense in accordance with Iowa law,
including company's tariff on file with the Iowa Utilities Board as may
subsequently be amended, to construct, replace, repair, locate and relocate its
existing facilities or equipment in, on, over or under any public street,
avenue, right-of-way, alley, public places or grounds in the City in such a
manner as the City may reasonably require, except the company shall not be
required to construct, replace, repair, locate and relocate existing facilities
where company facilities are located in private easements (whether titled in
the company or other entities) unless said private easement is upon land owned
by the City.
If the City orders or requests the company to relocate its existing facilities
or equipment for any reason other than as specified above, or as the result of
the initial request of a commercial or other nonpublic development, the company
shall receive payment for the cost of such relocation as a precondition to
relocating its existing facilities or equipment.
In the event the company is required to move, remove or modify the placement of
any of its poles, lines, wires, conduit, conductors, fixtures, accessories,
equipment or appurtenances located within the City because of any public
improvement or public purposes of the City, the company shall do so at its own
expenses as directed by the City. In planning for the extension or modification
of streets and roads, the City shall, to the extent practicable in the
discretion of its City Manager, design such changes to limit the need for the
relocation of company facilities.
The company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense, company
facilities in the public right-of-way that have been relocated at company
expense at the direction of the City in the previous three (3) years.
The City shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works
projects so as not arbitrarily to cause the company unreasonable additional
expense in exercising its authority under this section. The City shall also
provide a reasonable alternative location for the company's facilities as part
of its relocation request. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-4: EXCAVATIONS:
In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public places for the
installation, maintenance or repair of any conductor, conduit or other
appurtenance or the erection of poles and wires or other appliances, the
company shall not unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets, avenues, alleys
or public places. The company in making any such excavations shall, if required
by ordinance, obtain a City permit therefor and shall not unnecessarily
obstruct the use of streets, avenues, alleys, or public places and shall
provide the City Manager or City Manager's designee or such other person as the
City may designate with twenty four (24) hours' notice prior to the actual
commencement of the work, and shall comply with all provisions and requirements
of the City in its regulation of the use of City right-of-way in performing
such work. In emergencies which require immediate excavation, the company may
proceed with the work without first applying for or obtaining a permit,
provided, however, that the company shall apply for and obtain an excavation
permit as soon as possible after commencing such emergency work.
The company shall comply with all provisions and requirements of the City in
its regulation of the use of City right-of-way in performing any excavations.
The company shall comply with all City ordinances regarding paving cuts,
placement of facilities and restoration of pavement and other public
infrastructure. The company shall replace the surface, restoring the condition
as existed prior to the company's excavation, but shall not be required to
improve or modify the public right-of-way unless said improvement is necessary
to meet a SUDAS (Statewide Urban Design and Specifications) standard, a
requirement of the Americans With Disabilities Act, or any other standard
mandated by State or Federal law, provided however, if any improvement is
requested or required for aesthetic, cosmetic or similar purposes not mandated
by State or Federal law the City shall reimburse the company the incremental
cost of such improvements. The company shall complete all repairs in a timely
and prompt manner. Company agrees any replacement of road surface shall conform
to current City ordinances regarding its depth and composition. (Ord. 42-18,
11-5-2018)
11-5B-5: CITY VACATION OF PROPERTY:
The City when vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground or public right-
of-way shall not deprive the company of its right to operate and maintain
existing facilities and their replacements on, below, above, or beneath the
vacated property. Prior to the City abandoning or vacating any street, avenue,
alley, right-of-way or other public ground where the company has electric
facilities, the City shall grant the company a utility easement for said
facilities. This paragraph shall not apply to the realignment, reconstruction,
or vacation of streets or alleys in a designated urban renewal area; provided,
however, the City shall identify, reserve and make available alternate
locations for facilities to serve the designated urban renewal area consistent
with the technical needs of the company. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-6: STREET LIGHTS:
The company agrees that, unless there are extenuating circumstances because of
damage, supply shortage or other reason beyond the company's control, the
company shall replace any street light which is burned out or otherwise not
functioning within ten (10) days of receipt of written notice specifying the
street light in need of replacement or repair. If because of extenuating
circumstances the company will not be able to replace or repair a street light
within ten (10) days after notice, the company shall notify the City within ten
(10) days of the receipt of written notice from the City what the extenuating
circumstances are, including a date when the street light will be repaired or
replaced.
The company will convert all street lights in the City to light emitting diode
(LED) lights as street lights fail or if the company determines to upgrade
street lights in conjunction with other company work. The parties agree that
should an improved technology be developed and commercially reasonable during
this franchise, thereafter, the company may, at its option, substitute
different lighting technologies that provide an amount and quality of light
that is at least equal to that provided by the LED technology. Before
installing any such substitute technology, the company must obtain the City's
approval, such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
The company shall coordinate with the City on the placement of street lighting
and the collocation of City's public safety equipment and cameras on company
facilities, provided the City agrees to compensate the company consistent with
the company's established rates.
The company shall charge the City for electric usage of any of the City's
equipment on the company's poles consistent with rates established by the
company. The company will charge the City the same rates it charges its other
customers. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-7: SERVICE AVAILABILITY:
The company shall maintain the availability of electric service throughout the
entire City including newly annexed areas, but excluding areas designated by
the Iowa Utilities Board to be the exclusive service territory of another
electric provider, by extending lines or facilities in a manner consistent with
Iowa law. The company shall furnish electric energy in sufficient quantities to
supply the reasonable demands of the City and the inhabitants thereof and
including industrial users in accordance with the regulations and conditions of
service as provided in its tariff or established by its board of directors.
(Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-8: REQUESTED INFORMATION:
Upon reasonable request and if available, the company shall provide the City,
on a project specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location,
relative to boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment which it owns or
over which it has control that is located in City right-of-way, including
documents, maps and other information in paper or electronic or other forms
("information"). Upon reasonable request and if available, the company shall
also provide the City information including mapping data indicating the
horizontal and vertical locations, relative to the boundaries of the right-of-
way, of all equipment which the company owns or over which it has control, and
which is located in any right-of-way. The company may satisfy this requirement
by providing copies of maps showing equipment locations which were developed
and kept by the company in the ordinary course of business, provided that if
such maps do not show the location of all such existing equipment, the company
will, upon reasonable request, assist the City in field locating equipment not
shown on such maps and provide mapping data for such equipment provided that
with respect to equipment which the company placed within the right-of-way the
company shall provide mapping data with the specificity and in the format
required by the City for inclusion in the mapping system used by the City, as
more specifically provided in the City's utility accommodation and street
restoration specifications. The company and City recognize the information may
in whole or part be considered a confidential record under State or Federal law
or both. Therefore, the City shall not release any information without prior
consent of the company and shall return the information to company upon
request. The City recognizes that company claims the information may constitute
a trade secret or is otherwise protected from public disclosure by State or
Federal law on other grounds and agrees to protect the information to the
extent allowed by State or Federal law. Furthermore, the City agrees that no
documents, maps or information provided to the City by the company shall be
made available to the public or other entities if such documents or information
are exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the Freedom of Information
Act, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Critical Energy Infrastructure
requirements pursuant to 18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or chapter 22 of the Code
of Iowa, as such statutes and regulations may be amended from time to time. In
the event any action at law, in equity or administrative is brought against the
City regarding disclosure of any document which the company has designated as a
trade secret or as otherwise protected from disclosure the City shall promptly
notify the company. The company shall have the right to assume the defense of
said action or agree to reimburse the City any and all costs, including
attorney fees and penalties, to the extent allowed by law which may result from
any said action. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-9: PRUNING OR REMOVAL OF TREES:
The company is authorized and empowered to prune or remove at company expense,
any tree extending into any street, avenue, right-of-way, alley, public place
or public grounds to maintain electric reliability, safety, to restore utility
service and to prevent limbs, branches, or trunks from interfering with the
wires and facilities of the company. The pruning and removal of trees shall be
completed in accordance with nationally accepted safety and utility standards,
currently ANSI ZI33-2012, American National Standard for Arboricultural
Operations-Safety Requirements, and ANSI A300 (part 1) - 2008 Pruning, American
National Standard for Tree, Shrub, and Other Woody Plant Maintenance - Standard
of Practices Pruning, and subsequent revisions to these standards. In the event
any tree is removed by the company, or is damaged to the extent that the City
Forester determines the tree has lost its viability or functionality, because
the company has removed or trimmed a tree in violation of this paragraph, the
company shall pay the City upon invoice the sum of three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00) per tree, which amount shall be adjusted annually commencing on the
first anniversary of the adoption of this franchise, and each anniversary
thereafter by the change in percentage in the United States Bureau of Labor
Statistics Consumer Price Index ("CPI") as of the applicable anniversary of
this franchise compared to the CPI as of the same date of the previous year.
The company shall have no other liability to the City. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-10: INDEMNIFICATION; INSURANCE:
The company shall indemnify, save and hold harmless the City from any and all
claims, suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, including attorneys' fees,
on account of injury or damage to any person or property, to the extent caused
or occasioned in whole or part by the company's negligence in construction,
reconstruction, excavation, operation or maintenance of the electric facilities
authorized by this franchise; provided, however, that the company shall not be
obligated to defend, indemnify and save harmless the City for any costs or
damages to the extent arising in whole or part from the negligence of the City,
its officers, employees or agents.
At all times during the term of this franchise, the company shall maintain
insurance coverages as set forth in the Certificates of Insurance and company
shall issue Certificates of Insurance annually upon request. The company shall
require its contractors and subcontractors to maintain insurance. (Ord. 42-18,
11-5-2018)
11-5B-11: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   The franchise fee presently imposed by the City upon the company under
ordinance no. 20-04 and 13-15 listed below shall continue under this franchise.
The City is authorized to impose by ordinance a franchise fee up to the amount
allowed by Iowa law upon the gross revenue generated from sales of electricity
by the company within the corporate limits of the City. The company and City
agree that the City Council may in its discretion increase the franchise fee by
ordinance, without further consent from the company, provided no increase shall
exceed the maximum franchise fee allowed by Iowa law. Upon notice, the company
shall begin collecting the franchise fee and any increased fee. The City shall
provide to the company, by certified mail, copies of annexation ordinances and
all new property addresses to which the franchise fee will be applied. The
company shall commence collecting the franchise fee in the annexed areas sixty
(60) days thereafter.
The company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or refund
any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted to the
City. In the event the company is required to provide data or information in
defense of the City's imposition of franchise fees or the company is required
to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating any franchise fee
refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall reimburse the
company for the expenses incurred by the company to provide such data or
information. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
   B.   Effective June 1, 2015, and for the term of the franchise, the company
shall pay to the City a fee equal to five percent (5%) of the gross revenue
generated from the sale of electricity within the City. The City shall provide
the company with a map depicting its current corporate boundaries and shall
notify the company of any changes to the same.
The company shall on the fifteenth day of each month, commencing May 15, 2004,
provide to the City Manager in a form acceptable to the company and the City
Manager records establishing the gross revenues from the sale of electricity by
the company within the City of Dubuque for the preceding month and shall pay
the fee to the City within thirty (30) days following the last day of the
preceding month.
Effective July 1, 2013, the fee imposed by section 23 of ordinance 20-04, as
amended by ordinance 9-10, shall not apply to any sale of electricity by the
company that is exempt under Iowa Code section 423.3 from the tax imposed by
Iowa Code section 423.2 and in computing the amount of the fee, the company
shall not include such sales, unless it is impracticable to do so, in which
event the City Manager shall provide a rebate of the amount of the fee for such
exempt sales of electricity to company's customers provided a written request
is submitted by a customer to the City Manager in the City's fiscal year (July
1 - June 30) in which the customer pays such fees. Any rebate of franchise fees
which may have been available under any prior amendment or ordinance which was
not paid prior to July 1, 2013, is declared void and any claim for any such
rebate shall not be honored or paid by the City.
The City Council reserves the right by amendment to this article to increase or
decrease the amount of such franchise fee as it determines to be in the public
interest. (Ord. 13-15, 3-16-2015; amd. Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-12: EXTENSION OR MODIFICATION OF STREETS AND ROADS:
The City shall use its best efforts, in the extension or modification of
streets and roads, to make provision for the placement of company service lines
and facilities on City owned right-of-way without charge to company. The
company must utilize the area provided for placement of its service lines and
facilities as directed by the City or other reasonable location provided by the
company. Nothing in this franchise shall be construed as a guarantee that in
either existing right-of-way or in future acquired right-of-way the City will
provide sufficient space for any particular need of the company nor shall the
City be required to obtain additional right-of-way solely for the use of the
company. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-13: POLE ATTACHMENT AGREEMENT:
The City shall hold the company harmless from any and all causes of action,
litigation or damages arising through the placing of any City facilities upon
the company's distribution poles placed within the City right-of-way. Before
attaching any facilities, the City shall complete the Pole Attachment Agreement
and receive written permission for each attachment. If at the sole discretion
of the company, it is determined that said attachments may create a clearance
violation or other hazardous situation, or that wind or other conditions may
place undue stress on specific company facilities, the City shall not be
authorized to attach to those facilities unless they pay for all required
upgrades. If attachments are in place, upon notification by the company of
damage or potential damage, the City shall promptly remove said attachments.
The company will contact the City Manager in the event of an emergency. (Ord.
42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-14: ENERGY EFFICIENCY:
If the company establishes and makes available to its customers energy
efficiency materials and rebate forms, the company will provide them to the
City for display in the Building Permit Department and other City departments
as requested by the City. The company will participate in neighborhood and
community events, when possible, and upon a request from the City or
neighborhood organization, to encourage City residents to utilize the company's
energy efficiency programs. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-15: REPORTS TO CITY MANAGER:
If the company prepares an annual written report summarizing the aggregate
electric use in its service territory located within the City by sector or type
of customer and the percentage of energy used within the City derived from
renewable resources, the company shall provide a copy to the City Manager each
year. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-16: COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTIONS:
If the company makes community contributions benefitting the people of the
City, the company shall make an annual written report to the City Manager
summarizing said contributions. The written report shall include the name of
each entity to which such contributions have been made, the amount of such
contribution and a comparison showing contributions for that year. (Ord. 42-18,
11-5-2018)
11-5B-17: SALE OR TRANSFER OF REAL ESTATE:
In the event that the company should have real estate or any interest in real
estate within the City or within two (2) miles of the then current boundaries
of the City, which it intends to sell, transfer or which it otherwise intends
to divest, the company shall provide notice to the City of the terms and
conditions upon which the company intends to sell, transfer or divest itself.
(Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-18: HOME RULE AUTHORITY:
The City reserves to itself all home rule authority under the Constitution of
Iowa. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-19: MATERIAL BREACH:
Either City or company ("party") may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non- breaching party shall provide the breaching party
with notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The
breaching party shall have sixty (60) days to cure the breach, unless it
notifies the non-breaching party, and the parties agree upon a longer period
for cure. If the breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching
party may terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in
breach of this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or Federal
law. A party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the
alleged breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other
party. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-20: SEVERABILITY:
If any of the provisions of this article are for any reason declared to be
illegal or void, the lawful provisions of this article, which are severable
from said unlawful provisions, shall be and remain in full force and effect,
the same as if this article contained no illegal or void provisions. (Ord. 42-
18, 11-5-2018)
11-5B-21: FRANCHISE EFFECTIVE AND BINDING:
This article and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with Iowa law
and the written acceptance by the company. The City shall provide company with
an original signed and sealed copy of this article within ten (10) days of its
final passage. The company shall, within thirty (30) days after the City
Council approval of this article, file in the Office of the Clerk of the City,
its acceptance in writing of all the terms and provisions of this article.
Following City Council approval, this article shall be published in accordance
with the Code of Iowa. In the event company does not file its written
acceptance of this article within thirty (30) days after its approval by the
City Council this article shall be void and of no effect. (Ord. 42-18, 11-5-
2018)
CHAPTER 6
PROCEDURE FOR LICENSING ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE COMPANIES
SECTION:
11-6-1: Grant Of License
11-6-2: Licensee Fee
11-6-3: Petition For License; Informational Meetings Held
11-6-4: Petition
11-6-5: Public Hearing
11-6-6: Manner Of Construction
11-6-7: Distance From Buildings
11-6-8: Nonuse; Revocation Of License; Extensions Of Time
11-6-9: Wires Across Railroad Right Of Way At Highways
11-6-1: GRANT OF LICENSE:
   A.   The city council may grant to any person a license to erect, maintain,
and operate an electric transmission line within the city.
   B.   The license may regulate the conditions required and the manner of use
of the streets and public grounds of the city. (Ord. 15-13, 3-4-2013)
11-6-2: LICENSEE FEE:
   A.   A license fee will be assessed by the city council based upon the
city's cost of inspecting, supervising, and otherwise regulating the licensee's
operations.
   B.   The licensee shall also pay the city a franchise fee of five percent
(5%) of gross revenues generated from sales of the franchisee within the city.
(Ord. 15-13, 3-4-2013)
11-6-3: PETITION FOR LICENSE; INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS HELD:
   A.   Any person authorized to operate electric transmission lines in the
state may file a verified petition with the city clerk asking for a license to
erect, maintain, and operate a line or lines for the transmission of electric
current and for such purpose to erect, use, and maintain poles, wires,
guywires, towers, cables, conduits, and other fixtures and appliances necessary
for conducting electric current over, along, and across any city lands or
rights of way.
   B.   As condition precedent to the filing of a petition requesting a license
for a new transmission line, and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the
filing of such petition, the person shall hold a public informational meeting.
   C.   The meeting shall be held in the city of Dubuque at a location
reasonably accessible to all persons that may be interested in the granting of
the license.
   D.   The person seeking the license for a new transmission line shall
publish notice of the informational meeting. The notice shall contain the
following:
      1.   The name of the applicant.
      2.   The applicant's principal place of business.
      3.   A general description and purpose of the proposed project.
      4.   The general nature of the right of way desired.
      5.   A map showing the route of the proposed project including the
location of all towers, poles, and other equipment.
      6.   A description of all towers, poles, and other equipment to be
constructed or installed.
      7.   The place and time of the meeting.
   E.   The notice shall be published not less than thirty (30) days prior to
the time set for the meeting once in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city at least one week and not more than three (3) weeks before the time of the
meeting. (Ord. 15-13, 3-4-2013)
11-6-4: PETITION:
   A.   All petitions shall set forth:
      1.   The name of the individual, company, or corporation asking for the
license.
      2.   The principal office or place of business.
      3.   The starting points, routes, and termini of the proposed lines,
accompanied with a map or plat showing such details, including the location of
all towers, poles, and other equipment and a detailed description of all
towers, poles, and other equipment to be constructed or installed.
      4.   A general description of the public or private lands, highways, and
streams over, across, or along which any proposed line will pass.
      5.   General specifications as to materials and manner of construction.
Whether the transmission lines will be aboveground or underground, and if
aboveground, the petitioner's detailed explanation why the lines will not be
underground.
      6.   The maximum voltage to be carried over each line.
      7.   An allegation that the proposed construction is in the public
interest.
   B.   Petitions for transmission lines capable of operating at sixty nine
(69) kilovolts or more shall also set forth an allegation that the proposed
construction represents a reasonable relationship to an overall plan of
transmitting electricity in the public interest and substantiation of such
allegations, including, but not limited to, a showing of the following:
      1.   The relationship of the proposed project to present and future
economic development of the area.
      2.   The relationship of the proposed project to comprehensive electric
utility planning.
      3.   The relationship of the proposed project to the needs of the public
presently served and future projections based on population trends.
      4.   The relationship of the proposed project to the existing electric
utility, gas, stormwater, sanitary sewer, water and fiber systems and parallel
existing utility routes.
      5.   The relationship of the proposed project to any other power system
planned for the future.
      6.   The possible use of alternative routes and methods of supply.
      7.   The relationship of the proposed project to the present and future
land use and zoning ordinances.
      8.   The inconvenience or undue injury which may result to property
owners as a result of the proposed project.
   C.   The city council may waive the proof required for such allegations
which are not applicable to a particular proposed project.
   D.   The petition shall contain an affidavit stating that the required
informational meeting was held and the time and place of such meeting. (Ord.
15-13, 3-4-2013)
11-6-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   When considering whether to grant, amend, extend, or renew a license,
the city council shall hold a public hearing on the question. Notice of the
time and place of the hearing shall be published as provided in Iowa Code
section 362.3. The city council shall consider the petition and any objections
filed to it. It shall examine the proposed route or cause any engineer selected
by it to do so. It may hear testimony as may aid it in determining the
propriety of granting the license. It may grant the license in whole or in part
upon the terms, conditions, and restrictions, and with the modifications as to
location and route as may seem to it just and proper.
   B.   A license shall not become effective until the petitioner shall pay, or
file an agreement to pay, all costs and expenses of the license proceeding,
whether or not objections are filed, including costs of inspections or
examinations of the route, hearing, publishing of notice, and any other
expenses reasonably attributable to it. (Ord. 15-13, 3-4-2013)
11-6-6: MANNER OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Such lines shall be built of strong and proper wires attached to strong
and sufficient supports properly insulated at all points of attachment; all
wires, poles, and other devices which by ordinary wear or other causes are no
longer safe shall be removed and replaced by new wires, poles, or other
devices, as the case may be, and all abandoned wires, poles, or other devices
shall be at once removed. Where wires carrying current are carried across,
either above or below wires used for other service, the said transmission line
shall be constructed in such manner as to eliminate, so far as practicable,
damages to persons or property by reason of said crossing. There shall also be
installed sufficient devices to automatically shut off electric current through
said transmission line whenever connection is made whereby current is
transmitted from the wires of said transmission line to the ground, and there
shall also be provided a safe and modern improved device for the protection of
said line against lightning. The city council shall have power to make and
enforce such further and additional rules relating to location, construction,
operation and maintenance of said transmission line as may be reasonable.
   B.   All transmission lines, wires or cables for the transmission,
distribution or sale of electric current at any voltage shall be constructed
and maintained in accordance with standards adopted by rule by the Iowa
utilities board. (Ord. 15-13, 3-4-2013)
11-6-7: DISTANCE FROM BUILDINGS:
No transmission line shall be constructed, except by agreement, within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of any dwelling house or other building, except where
said line crosses or passes along a public highway or is located alongside or
parallel with the right of way of any railway company. In addition to the
foregoing, each person, company, or corporation shall conform to any other
rules, regulations, or specifications established by the Iowa utilities board,
in the construction, operation, or maintenance of such lines. (Ord. 15-13, 3-4-
2013)
11-6-8: NONUSE; REVOCATION OF LICENSE; EXTENSIONS OF TIME:
   A.   If the improvement for which a license is granted is not constructed in
whole or in part within two (2) years from the date the license is granted, the
license shall be forfeited, unless the person holding the license petitions the
city council for an extension of time.
   B.   Upon a showing of sufficient justification for the delay of
construction, the city council may grant one or more extensions of time for
periods up to two (2) years for each extension. (Ord. 15-13, 3-4-2013)
11-6-9: WIRES ACROSS RAILROAD RIGHT OF WAY AT HIGHWAYS:
No corporation or person shall place or string any such wire for transmitting
electric current or any wire whatsoever across any track of a railroad except
in the manner prescribed by the utilities board. (Ord. 15-13, 3-4-2013)
CHAPTER 7
SMALL CELL AESTHETIC GUIDELINES
SECTION:
11-7-1: Small Cell Aesthetic Guidelines Program Established
11-7-1: SMALL CELL AESTHETIC GUIDELINES PROGRAM ESTABLISHED:
The City Manager shall develop, with the approval of the City Council, written
guidelines to establish general procedures and standards, consistent with all
applicable Federal and State laws, for the siting, construction, installation,
collocation, modification, relocation, operation and removal of small cell
wireless technology within the City's right-of-way and on City property. (Ord.
3-19, 1-7-2019)
CHAPTER 8
FIBER TO THE HOME/BUSINESS AESTHETICS GUIDELINES
SECTION:
11-8-1: Fiber To The Home/Business Aesthetics Guidelines Established
11-8-1: FIBER TO THE HOME/BUSINESS AESTHETICS GUIDELINES ESTABLISHED:
The city manager shall develop, with the approval of the City Council, written
guidelines to establish general procedures and standards, consistent with all
applicable federal and state laws, for the siting, construction, installation,
collocation, and aesthetics of fiber to the home and business within the city's
right of way and on city property. (Ord. 46-21, 12-24-2021)
TITLE 12
AIRPORT
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
12-1-1: Airport Manager
12-1-1: AIRPORT MANAGER:
   A.   Office Created: The office of airport manager is hereby created, who
shall perform such duties as shall from time to time be required by the airport
commission.
   B.   Duties: In addition to general management and supervision of the
airport, including the regulation of all activities connected therewith, the
airport manager shall be responsible for all activities of the civil landing
area, the continued maintenance of the civil landing area with adequate
personnel, its protective facilities; acting to ensure the operation of civil
aircraft, persons, and businesses is in compliance with any rules or
regulations prescribed by the airport commission; issuing all permits approved
by the airport commission; and collecting all fees prescribed by ordinances of
the city or the rules and regulations provided for in this title. (Ord. 51-14,
8-4-2014)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Name
12-2-2: Government Regulations Adopted
12-2-3: Permits Required
12-2-4: Violations; Ejection Of Offenders
12-2-5: Off Airport Car Rental Business
12-2-6: Parking Lots Established; Fees
12-2-1: NAME:
The airport located in Table Mound Township now the property of the city is
hereby named "Dubuque Regional Airport". (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-2-2: GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The federal aviation regulations and policies as established by the federal
aviation administration are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
chapter. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-2-3: PERMITS REQUIRED:
No person shall use the airport as a base or terminal for operating a
commercial activity or for the sale of refreshments or of any other commodity,
gasoline, oil, or any other merchandise, or rendering any services for hire
within the confines of the airport without having first secured any permits
required per airport commission policy. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-2-4: VIOLATIONS; EJECTION OF OFFENDERS:
Any person operating or handling any aircraft or vehicle in violation of the
provisions of this title, the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder, or
amendments thereto, or who refuses to comply therewith may be promptly removed
and ejected from the airport by or under authority of the airport manager, and,
upon the written order of the airport manager, may be denied the further use of
the airport and its facilities for such length of time as may be required to
ensure the safety of the airport and the public and its interest therein. (Ord.
51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-2-5: OFF AIRPORT CAR RENTAL BUSINESS:
No person operating a car rental business shall pick up a person at the airport
for the purpose of renting to such person a car or other motor vehicle without
a prior written agreement with the airport commission to conduct such car
rental business. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-2-6: PARKING LOTS ESTABLISHED; FEES:
   A.   Rules And Regulations: The airport commission is authorized and
directed to establish parking rules and regulations for the parking lots at the
Dubuque Regional Airport consistent with the city of Dubuque parking
ordinances.
   B.   Parking Fees: The airport commission is authorized to establish parking
fees at the airport. It shall be unlawful for any person to park at the airport
without paying the established parking fee. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
CHAPTER 3
AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Short Title
12-3-2: Definitions
12-3-3: Zones
12-3-4: Height Limitations
12-3-5: Land And Nonconforming Use Restrictions
12-3-6: Enforcement
12-3-7: Conflicting Regulations
12-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the DUBUQUE REGIONAL AIRPORT
ZONING RESOLUTION. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, certain terms
and words shall be construed as provided in this section:
AIRPORT: The Dubuque Regional Airport and the lands embraced by the description
as provided in the most current exhibit A documentation located at the airport
administrative offices.
AIRPORT HAZARD: Any structure or tree or use of land which would exceed the
federal obstruction standards as contained in 14 CFR 77 and which obstructs the
airspace required for the flight of aircraft and landing or takeoff at an
airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of aircraft.
AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT: Latitude 42 degrees 24'07°16", longitude 90 degrees
42'34°14". Airport elevation one thousand seventy six feet (1,076') mean sea
level.
BOARD: The airport zoning board of adjustment created by the provisions of
section
12-6-1 of this title.
USABLE LANDING AREA: That portion of the airport which is used or intended to
be used for actual landings or takeoffs of aircraft at the airport. (Ord. 51-
14, 8-4-2014)
12-3-3: ZONES:
   A.   Generally: In order to carry out the purpose of this chapter, airport
airspace created by this section must embrace the airport, and the area in,
around, adjacent to, and surrounding the published approach and departure
corridors of the airport.
   B.   Class D Navigable Airspace:
      1.   The Dubuque Regional Airport is surrounded by class D navigable
airspace. This airspace is controlled during operating hours of the air traffic
control tower and extends five (5) statute miles from the airport and upward to
two thousand five hundred feet (2,500') above ground level.
      2.   Imaginary surfaces are established with relation to the airport and
each runway. The size, slope, and dimension of each imaginary surface is based
on the category of approach for each designated runway, as established under 14
CFR 77. Airport imaginary surfaces are continually updated and are available
from airport administration. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-3-4: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Generally: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure
that penetrates the zones may be erected, created, established, replaced,
rebuilt, altered, allowed to grow, or replanted in any zone described in
section
12-3-3 of this chapter to a height in excess of the height limits established
by this section for the respective zones.
   B.   Height And Hazard Zoning Map: No obstruction shall be erected, created,
established, planted, or allowed to grow in any imaginary surface area, in
excess of height limits established under 14 CFR 77 regulations and the Dubuque
Regional Airport height and hazard limitation map. These height limitations are
continually updated and are available from airport administration. (Ord. 51-14,
8-4-2014)
12-3-5: LAND AND NONCONFORMING USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Land: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may
be made of land in any of the zones described in section
12-3-3 of this chapter, in such a manner as to create electrical interference
with radio communications between aircraft and ground stations, make it
difficult for operators of aircraft to distinguish between lights on the
airport intended for aid in landing or taking off thereat or in aerial
navigation, and other lights, result in glare to the eyes of the operators of
aircraft using the airport, impair visibility in any of such zones or otherwise
make hazardous the landing or taking off of aircraft at the airport or the
maneuvering of aircraft in connection with such landings or takeoffs; provided,
however, that the mere height of trees or structures on any land in said zones
conforming to the height restrictions prescribed in section
12-3-4 of this chapter shall not constitute a use of land in violation of this
section.
   B.   Nonconforming Uses: The regulations prescribed in this chapter shall
not be so construed as to require the removal, lowering, changing or altering
of any nonconforming structure or tree nor as to otherwise interfere with any
nonconforming use of land nor as to require any change in the construction,
alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of
which was begun prior to the effective date of resolution 52-52 and which was
diligently prosecuted and completed within one year from the date thereof;
provided, however, that the owner of any nonconforming structure or tree is
hereby required to permit the city and county, or either of them, at the
expense of such city or county to install, operate and maintain thereon such
markers and lights as shall be deemed by such city or county to be necessary to
indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport, the
presence of such airport hazards. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-3-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The regulations prescribed by this chapter shall be administered and enforced
by the airport zoning commission created by chapter 5 of this title and a
resolution adopted by the board of supervisors of the county. Such commission
may select an administrator of airport zoning regulations to assist in the
performance of its duties, none of whom shall be members of the board of
adjustment. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-3-7: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
In the event of any conflict between the requirements of this chapter and any
other regulations applicable to the same area, the more stringent limitation or
regulation shall govern and prevail. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
CHAPTER 4
AIRPORT COMMISSION
SECTION:
12-4-1: Commission Created
12-4-2: Purpose
12-4-3: Internal Organization And Rules
12-4-4: Procedures For Operation
12-4-5: Membership
12-4-6: Oath
12-4-7: Terms
12-4-8: Vacancies
12-4-9: Officers; Organization
12-4-10: Meetings
12-4-11: Compensation
12-4-12: Removal
12-4-13: Powers
12-4-14: Annual Report
12-4-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the airport commission. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commission is to manage, control, and operate the Dubuque
Regional Airport. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-4-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The commission shall promulgate and put in force such rules and regulations as
shall be deemed necessary and appropriate for the order, operation, management,
control and supervision of the Dubuque Regional Airport. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-4-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the city govern the commission in all its operations, except where the
policies are in conflict with the regulations of the federal aviation
administration, the transportation security administration, or the Iowa
department of transportation. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-4-5: MEMBERSHIP:
The commission comprises five (5) residents of the city, appointed by the city
council. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 20-24, 6-17-2024)
12-4-6: OATH:
Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an oath of office
at the first meeting of the commission following the appointment or at the city
clerk's office any time prior to the first meeting of the commission. (Ord. 51-
14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 20-24, 6-17-2024)
12-4-7: TERMS:
The term of office for commissioners is four (4) years or until such member's
successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-4-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original appointments. (Ord. 51-
14, 8-4-2014)
12-4-9: OFFICERS; ORGANIZATION:
The commissioners must choose annually a chairperson and vice chairperson, each
to serve a term of one year. The chairperson must appoint a secretary, who need
not be a commissioner. The commission must fill a vacancy among its officers
for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-4-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meetings: Meetings may be called by the chairperson or at the written
request of a majority of the commissioners.
   B.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa open meetings law.
   C.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   D.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the commission must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting, whichever is later.
   E.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the commission constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the
commissioners present and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or
resolution. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 20-24, 6-17-2024)
12-4-11: COMPENSATION:
Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official
commission business within the limits established in the city administrative
policies and budget. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-4-12: REMOVAL:
The city council may remove any commissioner for cause upon written charges and
after public hearing. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-4-13: POWERS:
   A.   The commission has all of the powers in relation to airports granted to
cities and counties under state law, except powers to sell the airport.
   B.   All funds derived from taxation or otherwise for airport purposes are
under the control of the commission for the purposes of management, operation,
and control of the airport and must be deposited with the director of finance
and budget to the credit of the commission and must be disbursed only on the
written warrant or order of the commission including the payment of all
indebtedness arising from the acquisition and construction of airports and the
maintenance, operation, and extension thereof. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord.
3-20, 1-21-2020)
12-4-14: ANNUAL REPORT:
An annual report will be prepared, submitted, and distributed in accordance
with Iowa Code chapter 330. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
CHAPTER 5
AIRPORT ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
12-5-1: Commission Created
12-5-2: Purpose
12-5-3: Internal Organization And Rules
12-5-4: Procedures For Operation
12-5-5: Membership
12-5-6: Oath
12-5-7: Terms
12-5-8: Vacancies
12-5-9: Officers; Organization
12-5-10: Meetings
12-5-11: Compensation
12-5-12: Removal
12-5-13: Powers
12-5-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the airport zoning commission. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-5-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commission is to make recommendations to the Dubuque County
board of supervisors if there is an airport hazard that endangers the lives and
property of users of the Dubuque Regional Airport and the occupants of the land
and other persons in its vicinity, or if a hazard impairs the utility of the
airport. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-5-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The commission may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as may be necessary and which are not in conflict with this code or
the Iowa Code. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-5-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the city govern the commission in all its operations, except where the
policies are in conflict with the regulations of the federal aviation
administration, the transportation security administration, or the Iowa
department of transportation. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-5-5: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The commission comprises five (5) members:
      1.   Two (2) members selected by the city council from the city of
Dubuque zoning advisory commission;
      2.   Two (2) members selected by the Dubuque County board of supervisors;
and
      3.   One member from the public at large selected by the other four (4)
members. This member will serve as chairperson. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014; amd.
Ord. 22-24, 6-17-2024)
12-5-6: OATH:
Each person, upon selection to the commission, must execute an oath of office
at the first meeting of the commission following the selection or at the city
clerk's office any time prior to the first meeting of the commission. (Ord. 51-
14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 22-24, 6-17-2024)
12-5-7: TERMS:
The term of office for commissioners is six (6) years or until such member's
successor is appointed and qualified, provided, however, that the terms of the
cross representative appointees from the city of Dubuque zoning advisory
commission must coincide with their terms on the zoning advisory commission.
(Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-5-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original selections. (Ord. 51-
14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 22-24, 6-17-2024)
12-5-9: OFFICERS; ORGANIZATION:
The commissioners must choose annually a vice chairperson to serve a term of
one year. The chairperson must appoint a secretary, who need not be a
commissioner. The commission must fill a vacancy among its officers for the
remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-5-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meetings: Meetings may be called by the chairperson or at the written
request of a majority of the commissioners.
   B.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa open meetings law.
   C.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   D.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the commission must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting, whichever is later.
   E.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the commission constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the
commissioners present and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or
resolution. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 22-24, 6-17-2024)
12-5-11: COMPENSATION:
Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official
commission business within the limits established in the city and county
administrative policies and budget. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-5-12: REMOVAL:
The city council may remove any commissioner for cause upon written charges and
after public hearing. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-5-13: POWERS:
The commission has the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
   A.   To make recommendations to the Dubuque County board of supervisors and
the city council as to the boundaries of the original airport hazard area and
the appropriate regulations and restrictions to be enforced therein. The
commission must, with due diligence, prepare a preliminary report on such
matters and hold public hearings thereon before submitting its final report.
   B.   The commission has such other powers and duties as may hereafter be
assigned to it by the Iowa Code or joint resolution of the Dubuque County board
of supervisors and the city council. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
CHAPTER 6
AIRPORT ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
12-6-1: Board Created
12-6-2: Purpose
12-6-3: Internal Organization And Rules
12-6-4: Procedures For Operation
12-6-5: Membership
12-6-6: Oath
12-6-7: Terms
12-6-8: Vacancies
12-6-9: Officers; Organization
12-6-10: Meetings
12-6-11: Compensation
12-6-12: Removal
12-6-13: Powers
12-6-14: Scope Of Authority On Appeals
12-6-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created the airport zoning board of adjustment. (Ord. 51-14, 8-
4-2014)
12-6-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the board is to hear petitions of those who seek to modify
regulations and restrictions regarding airport zoning issues. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-
2014)
12-6-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The board may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as may be necessary and which are not in conflict with this code or
the Iowa Code. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-6-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the city govern the board in all its operations, except where the policies
are in conflict with the regulations of the federal aviation administration,
the transportation security administration, or the Iowa department of
transportation. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-6-5: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Composition: The board comprises five (5) residents of the city.
   B.   Special Qualifications:
      1.   Two (2) members must be selected by the city council from the city
of Dubuque zoning board of adjustment.
      2.   Two (2) members must be selected by the Dubuque County board of
supervisors.
      3.   One member from the public at large must be selected by the other
four (4) members. This member will serve as chairperson. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014;
amd. Ord. 21-24, 6-17-2024)
12-6-6: OATH:
Each person, upon selection to the board, must execute an oath of office at the
first meeting of the board following the selection or at the city clerk's
office any time prior to the first meeting of the board. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014;
amd. Ord. 21-24, 6-17-2024)
12-6-7: TERMS:
The term of office for members of the board is five (5) years or until such
member's successor is appointed and qualified, provided, however, that the
terms of the cross representative appointees from the city of Dubuque zoning
board of adjustment must coincide with their terms on the zoning board of
adjustment. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-6-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original selections. (Ord. 51-
14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 21-24, 6-17-2024)
12-6-9: OFFICERS; ORGANIZATION:
The board must choose annually a vice chairperson to serve a term of one year.
The chairperson must appoint a secretary, who need not be a member of the
board. The board must fill a vacancy among its officers for the remainder of
the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-6-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meetings: Meetings may be called by the chairperson or at the written
request of a majority of the members.
   B.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa open meetings law.
   C.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a member of the board has been absent for three (3) or
more consecutive meetings of the board, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the board to recommend to the
city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   D.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the board must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the board, or by the next regularly scheduled city council
meeting, whichever is later.
   E.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the board constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the members
present and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or resolution.
The affirmative vote of a majority of the board is necessary to reverse any
order, requirement, decision, or determination of any administrative official
or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which the board is
required to pass under this chapter, or to effect any variation from the terms
thereof. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. 21-24, 6-17-2024)
12-6-11: COMPENSATION:
Members serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official board
business within the limits established in the city and county administrative
policies and budget. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-6-12: REMOVAL:
The city council may remove any member for cause upon written charges and after
public hearing. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-6-13: POWERS:
The board has the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
   A.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of this chapter.
   B.   To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms
of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to
special conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will
result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of this chapter will be
observed and substantial justice done.
   C.   The procedures and appeals of the board must be in accordance with this
code and the Iowa Code. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
12-6-14: SCOPE OF AUTHORITY ON APPEALS:
In exercising its powers on appeal, the board may reverse or affirm wholly or
partly or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination
as ought to be made and to that end have all of the powers of the officer from
whom the appeal is taken. (Ord. 51-14, 8-4-2014)
TITLE 13
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
13-1-1: Provisions Of Chapter Part Of Contract
13-1-2: City Not Responsible For Breaks In Lines
13-1-3: Abandoned Service Pipes
13-1-4: City's Right To Shut Off Service, Establish Fee
13-1-5: Care Of Water Heaters During Service Shutoffs
13-1-6: Nonliability Of City In Turning On Service
13-1-7: Service Turned On By City Only
13-1-8: Closing Of Accounts
13-1-9: Use Of Fire Hydrants Restricted
13-1-10: Right Of Access For Inspection
13-1-11: Impersonation Of Department Inspectors
13-1-12: Information As To Location Of Mains And Pipes
13-1-13: Extension Of Mains
13-1-14: Fire Lines
13-1-1: PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER PART OF CONTRACT:
The provisions of this chapter shall be considered a part of the contract with
every person who takes water supplied by the city, and every such person who
takes water shall be considered as having expressed such person's agreement to
be bound thereby. (2007 Code § 44-122)
13-1-2: CITY NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR BREAKS IN LINES:
The city shall not be held responsible for any damages caused by the breaking
of any service pipe, water main or fire hydrant. (2007 Code § 44-123)
13-1-3: ABANDONED SERVICE PIPES:
All service pipes abandoned must be permanently closed off at the water main at
the expense of the owner of the premises, and so reported to the city manager
for inspection and written approval given before being backfilled. (2007 Code §
44-124)
13-1-4: CITY'S RIGHT TO SHUT OFF SERVICE, ESTABLISH FEE:
   A.   Shut Off For Repairs, Extensions: The city manager reserves the right
at any time, when necessary, without notice, to shut the water off for the
purpose of making repairs or extensions or for other purposes, and no claims
shall be made against the city by reason of the breakage of any service pipe or
service cock, or from any other damage that may result from shutting off the
water for repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or other connections.
   B.   Authority To Establish Fee: The city manager is authorized to establish
the fee for shutoff/turnon, for disconnect for nonpayment of bills, or
temporary disconnections of service requested by customer. (2007 Code § 44-125)
13-1-5: CARE OF WATER HEATERS DURING SERVICE SHUTOFFS:
When water is shut off for making repairs, consumers having water heating coils
shall turn off the water at the basement shutoff and open a faucet in the hot
water pipe and leave it open until the water is turned on, in order to protect
piping and fixtures from excessive pressures from hot water or steam. (2007
Code § 44-126)
13-1-6: NONLIABILITY OF CITY IN TURNING ON SERVICE:
In turning on water, the city shall not be responsible for any damage that may
occur by reason of open, defective or disconnected fixtures or piping. (2007
Code § 44-127)
13-1-7: SERVICE TURNED ON BY CITY ONLY:
When the water supply to any premises has been shut off at either the curb
shutoff or the meter, it shall not again be turned on except by an authorized
representative of the city manager. The city manager may refuse to authorize
turning on the city water to any premises where a bill is in dispute or unpaid
or where, if applicant is a tenant, the required deposit has not been made.
(2007 Code § 44-128)
13-1-8: CLOSING OF ACCOUNTS:
Owners or consumers desiring to discontinue the use of water shall give notice
to the city manager. The meter will be read and a final bill computed. If the
customer is transferring within the system, the final balance will be
transferred to the customer's new account, and will be subject to the normal
collection procedures for active accounts. If the customer is discontinuing
service on the city water system, the final bill will be rendered to the
customer and will be subject to the normal collection procedure for final
bills. (2007 Code § 44-129)
13-1-9: USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS RESTRICTED:
No person, except authorized city employees, shall open any public fire hydrant
belonging to the city. (2007 Code § 44-130)
13-1-10: RIGHT OF ACCESS FOR INSPECTION:
Any person authorized by the city manager shall have free access at all
reasonable hours to any building for the purpose of reading, inspecting,
removing or replacing meters, examining water fixtures and observing the manner
in which the water is used. (2007 Code § 44-131)
13-1-11: IMPERSONATION OF DEPARTMENT INSPECTORS:
No person who is not an employee of the city shall by word or action represent
such person to be such an employee for the purpose of gaining admission to any
building nor shall any person, in any manner, impersonate such employee for the
purpose of committing any unlawful or improper act. (2007 Code § 44-132)
13-1-12: INFORMATION AS TO LOCATION OF MAINS AND PIPES:
Such information as may be obtained from the records, maps, employees, etc., of
the city relative to the location of water mains and service pipes will be
furnished plumbers or interested parties; but the city does not guarantee the
accuracy of all such information. (2007 Code § 44-133)
13-1-13: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
Any person desiring a water main extension shall apply for the same in writing
to the city manager, who will make an investigation and submit the same with a
recommendation to the city council for their decision. (2007 Code § 44-134)
13-1-14: FIRE LINES:
   A.   Generally: Connections which are to be used exclusively for supplying
water to extinguish fires may be granted upon the conditions set out in this
section.
   B.   Application: Application for such connection shall be made in writing
by the owner of the premises to be served, or the owner's representative, on a
form furnished by the city manager.
   C.   Drawings To Be Furnished: The applicant must furnish, with the
application, a complete and correct drawing or set of drawings, showing the
location of the premises to be supplied, together with location of all valves,
pipes, hydrants, tanks, sprinkler heads, and other appurtenances on the
premises, the plans to remain the property of the city. The applicant shall
also agree to furnish the city with drawings showing revisions to piping and
appurtenances, whenever the same are made.
   D.   Installations: The city shall reserve the right to limit the size of
fire protection services where the street mains are of such size as to make it
necessary to protect the public interest. If more than one service is installed
to the same premises, the piping system of one shall not be connected with the
others. No connection shall be made between the fire service pipe system and
the regular water supply of the premises.
   E.   Use: No water shall be drawn from the fire service pipes for any
purpose whatever except for the extinguishment of fires. Valves on outlets,
drain cocks, etc., placed on the pipe system shall be of a style that can be
sealed by the city. When any such valve or cock is opened, the owner or
occupant of the premises shall notify the city manager so that the same can be
resealed at once. This subsection is not to be construed as prohibiting a
reasonable use of water for fire drills, draining of a system to prevent
freezing or other reasonable use in connection with proper fire protection.
   F.   Connecting City Lines With Private Systems Prohibited; Exceptions: All
fire protection systems supplied with water from the city mains shall be
supplied exclusively with such water and no connection shall be allowed with
any other system drawing its supply from any other source, unless such
connection is installed and maintained in accordance with the approval of the
city manager, and no auxiliary or secondary suction pipe to any fire pump
taking water from any other source will be permitted. Where such connection or
duplicate system existed on February 2, 1959, the city manager shall require
the owner of the premises to install a modern double check valve system of the
type generally known as the "factory mutual" fire service connection. Should
the owner neglect or refuse to make the required changes within ten (10) days,
the city supply shall be shut off.
   G.   Inspection: All fire services shall be subject to inspection by an
authorized inspector of the city, who will visit all premises having fire
services from time to time, and the owners or tenants shall give the inspector
all reasonable facilities for making the inspection and any information
concerning the same that may be required. Care will always be taken that
inspections will be made with as little inconvenience to the owners or
occupants as possible.
   H.   Penalty For Improper Use: In any case where the owner or occupants of
any premises are found to be using water from a fire service for other purposes
than fire protection, the water shall be shut off until the user has given the
city reasonable assurance that the offense will not be repeated. A reconnection
charge, as established by the city manager, after official publication, will be
imposed and collected prior to restoring service. A second violation will be
sufficient cause for terminating service to the property and refusing
reconnection while the offender owns or occupies the premises.
   I.   Meters: The city reserves the right at any time to require the owner of
the premises supplied to furnish and install, at the owner's expense and under
the direction of the city manager, an approved water meter and to keep same in
accurate operating condition. (2007 Code § 44-135)
ARTICLE A. CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
13-1A-1: Mandatory Connection; Notice; Completion Of Work
13-1A-2: Application For Service Connection
13-1A-3: Tap Charges
13-1A-4: Conditions For Service Taps By City
13-1A-5: Service Connections Installed
13-1A-6: Installation Standards And Materials
13-1A-7: Approval Before Backfilling
13-1A-8: Alteration To Services
13-1A-9: Separate Connections
13-1A-10: Water Supply Control Devices
13-1A-11: Required Depth Of Service Pipes
13-1A-12: Installation And Maintenance At Expense Of Owner
13-1A-13: Connecting City Lines To Private Systems Restricted
13-1A-1: MANDATORY CONNECTION; NOTICE; COMPLETION OF WORK:
   A.   City Authority To Require: Before any street, highway, avenue, alley or
public ground is permanently improved, the city council, by the passage of a
resolution, may require connections from water mains to be made by the owners
of abutting property to the curb line of such property, and a notice of such
requirements shall be given to the property owners as herein provided for.
(2007 Code § 44-146)
   B.   Notice To Owners To Connect: As soon as the resolution requiring
connections to be made as provided for in subsection A of this section is
passed and adopted by the city council, a written notice shall be served upon
all persons owning property along the street, avenue or alley proposed to be
improved, which notice shall order such property owner to make connections to
the curb line with water mains located in such streets, and thereupon it shall
be the duty of the owners of such property to comply with such notice. The
notice shall prescribe whether or not more than one connection is required to
be made and the description of the lot or parcel of real estate to which the
same is to be made and, in each instance, such owner shall be advised of the
number of connections that are required to be made. (2007 Code § 44-147)
   C.   City Authority To Make Connection After Notice: If a property owner
upon whom notice has been served pursuant to subsection B of this section to
make the connections as provided for in subsection A of this section, should
fail or refuse to make such connections within the time provided for in such
notice, then the city council may proceed to have said connection upon a
contract made and entered into for that purpose and the cost of making such
connections shall be assessed to the property owner and shall be collected in
the same manner as other special assessments are collected, except that the
whole amount of such assessments shall become due at once and shall not be
payable in installments. (2007 Code § 44-148)
   D.   Time Limit For Completion After Notice: The resolution passed by the
council pursuant to subsection A of this section and the notice that is served
upon the property owner shall prescribe the time within which connections are
to be made with such mains as provided for in such resolution, and this notice
shall be final unless the time is extended by the city council upon application
made therefor, or if conditions should arise which would make it impossible for
the property owner to make the connections required. (2007 Code § 44-149)
13-1A-2: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE CONNECTION:
Application for water service connections must be made in writing to the city
manager by a plumber authorized by the owner of the property to be served or by
the owner or other agent of such property. Such application must be made upon
blanks furnished by the city and must be properly filled out, giving all the
information required thereon. (2007 Code § 44-150)
13-1A-3: TAP CHARGES:
   A.   Authority To Establish Connection Charge: The city manager is hereby
directed to establish a charge for new connections and/or a charge for the
installation of taps to the water mains, which charge shall be fair and
reasonable considering the current costs of material and labor.
   B.   Locations Where Water Main Installed Since 1951 Annexation: At any
location within the city limits where a water main was installed since the
annexation of November 7, 1951, and no previous assessment or charge has been
paid for water taps, the prevailing per linear front foot connection charge
shall be paid in cash to the city water department before a water service
connection shall be made. (2007 Code § 44-151)
13-1A-4: CONDITIONS FOR SERVICE TAPS BY CITY:
   A.   Application Approval; Payment Of Certain Charges: Upon the filing and
approval of a proper application and the payment of the installation charge,
the city shall make the taps for connections to the water mains, but all
necessary excavation shall be furnished and paid for by the applicant.
   B.   Taps Outside City Limits: Sections
13-1A-2 and
13-1A-3 of this article and subsection A of this section are subject to the
condition that the city shall make no taps for new connections outside of the
city limits, nor shall any permit be issued therefor, without prior approval of
the city council and under such terms and conditions as the city council may,
in its discretion, in each instance, establish. (2007 Code § 44-152)
13-1A-5: SERVICE CONNECTIONS INSTALLED:
   A.   As used in this section, the phrase "service connection" shall include
all those facilities used to supply and control the water from the main to the
meter including the tap and the meter.
   B.   The installation of all service connections shall be made by employees
of the city, by duly licensed plumbers, or by persons specially authorized by
the city manager. All pipefittings and materials shall be approved by the city
manager. (Ord. 33-09, 6-15-2009)
13-1A-6: INSTALLATION STANDARDS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Service, Material; Method Of Laying:
      1.   Copper pipe used in service connections shall be cold drawn seamless
tubing with a proper bending temper so that a full section shall withstand
being bent cold through one hundred eighty degrees (180°) without cracking on
the outside of the bent portion around a pin the diameter of which is one and
one-half (11/2) times the inside diameter of the copper pipe. The purity of the
copper used shall be at least ninety nine and nine-tenths percent (99.9%), and
shall have a tensile strength of thirty thousand (30,000) pounds per square
inch with a minimum elongation of one inch (1") in four inches (4"). The
minimum weights and thicknesses of copper service pipe per foot length shall be
as follows:
 
Copper Service Pipe Minimum Weight Minimum Thickness
(Per Foot Length)   (Pounds)       (Inches)
 3/4"              0.64           0.065
 1"                0.838          0.065
 13/4"             1.036          0.065
 11/2"             1.360          0.072
 2"                2.062          0.083
 21/2"             2.92           0.095
 
Federal specifications - domestic type K copper.
      2.   All ductile iron services to be laid from the street main to the
inside of the building line shall be in accordance with ASA specifications
A21.5, or AWWA specifications, as approved by the city manager.
      3.   Pipe shall be furnished in class 200 for two hundred (200) psi
operating pressure, five foot (5') cover, trench condition B.
      4.   Pipe shall be asphaltic coating outside and cement lined inside (ASA
A21.4 or AWWA C104 specifications). (2007 Code § 44-154)
   B.   Minimum Size Of Service Pipe: No water service pipe from the main to
any building shall be less than three-fourths inch (3/4") size. (2007 Code §
44-155)
13-1A-7: APPROVAL BEFORE BACKFILLING:
   A.   Closing Curb Shutoff: Plumbers installing water service connections for
any building shall close the curb shutoff and leave it closed upon completion
of their work, and when pipes are laid to the curb only, they shall close the
end of the pipe or fitting with a tight metal plug or cap.
   B.   Testing Pipes Under Pressure: After completion of the installation, all
service pipes must be tested under pressure in the presence of an authorized
representative of the city before being covered and a final written approval
given, otherwise water will not be served through same. (2007 Code § 44-156)
13-1A-8: ALTERATION TO SERVICES:
After a service connection has been laid, no plumber or other person shall make
any attachment or connection to it, or extend same for any use, unless such
plumber or other person shall procure a written permit therefor from the city
manager, specifying the particular additions, repairs or alterations to be
made. (2007 Code § 44-157)
13-1A-9: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Separate Connections To Each Building: There shall be a separate
service pipe laid from the water main to each building or each side of a double
house, unless the same party owns all the buildings to be supplied, in which
case such party may install a single line, but must install only one meter and
be responsible for the payment for all water passing through it. (2007 Code §
44-158)
   B.   Connection Between Services Prohibited: Where there are two (2) or more
services on premises, the piping from each service must be kept separate, and
no connection made from one to the other. (2007 Code § 44-166)
13-1A-10: WATER SUPPLY CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Service Shutoffs And Valve Boxes: A curb box and shutoff for
controlling the supply of water to consumers shall be placed on every service.
When connections are made in streets, the stop box shall be placed twelve
inches (12") inside from the back of the curb; if no curb exists, it shall be
placed twelve inches (12") outside the sidewalk or sidewalk line. When made in
alleys, it shall be placed twelve inches (12") outside the lot line. The cover
of such box shall be maintained at the same height as the sidewalk or the
surrounding ground. Property owners are not allowed to cover stop boxes with
ashes, dirt or other material, and the same must be readily accessible at all
times. (2007 Code § 44-159)
   B.   Curb Cock: The curb shutoff shall be inserted in the service pipe so
that the tee head shall be parallel with the curb or alley line when the water
is turned off. Such curb cock shall be what is known as inverted key,
Minneapolis pattern, round way, having AWWA thread for flared copper tube at
both ends. When a Buffalo type stop box is used, the curb cock must also be
provided with a piece of pipe screwed onto the top of the cock, twelve inches
(12") long, which will serve as a guide for the stop box key. When a
Minneapolis type stop box is used, the bottom section of the box must be
screwed to the top of the curb cock. (2007 Code § 44-160)
   C.   Stop Box: The stop box used shall be of a design as approved by the
city manager and fitted with a substantial cover on which shall be marked the
word "water" in raised letters. The stop box for use with three-fourths inch
(3/4") and one inch (1") curb cocks shall have an unobstructed opening of at
least one and one-half inches (11/2") in diameter. The stop box for use with
curb cocks larger than one inch (1") shall have an unobstructed opening of at
least two inches (2") in diameter. All stop boxes shall be installed perfectly
plumb and be of such length as to conform to the required depth of cover on the
service line, when the top section is halfway between the adjustable limits of
the box (thus allowing the top section to be raised or lowered). (2007 Code §
44-161)
   D.   Gates On Large Services: All ductile iron service pipes or pipes two
inches (2") or more in diameter shall be provided with two (2) gate valves, one
at a point as near the main as possible and the other just inside the building
wall. The valve box used on the outside valve must be of a standard pattern
similar to those used by the city water department on the distribution system.
(2007 Code § 44-162)
   E.   Stop And Waste Cock:
      1.   Every service pipe must also have a stop and waste cock placed in
the building within two feet (2') of the point where the pipe enters the
building and on the inlet side of the meter. Said stop must have a wheel
attached to turn the same, and be kept in working order at all times so that
the water may be shut off by the occupant of the premises.
      2.   There shall also be a valve placed on the outlet side of the water
meter, not more than three feet (3') from the meter, so that the meter can be
taken out or replaced without draining the pipe system of the building. (2007
Code § 44-163)
   F.   Interference With Shutoff: No one except a city employee, a person
specially authorized by the city manager or the city manager's designee, or a
person under the supervision of a licensed plumber shall turn on or shut off
the water at the outside shutoff or stop box; provided, however, that licensed
plumbers or persons under the supervision of a licensed plumber may turn on or
off the water for testing plumbing or making repairs, provided permission is
obtained in advance from the city, but, whenever so used, the shutoff must be
left closed, if found closed, and open if found open by the plumber or person
under the supervision of a licensed plumber who uses it. (Ord. 30-09, 6-15-
2009)
   G.   Maintenance Of Shutoff By Owner: The curb box and shutoff must be kept
in good condition and ready for use at all times by the owner. Should the owner
neglect to maintain such box and shutoff in a proper condition to be used, and
if the stop box is found to be filled up, or the stop box or shutoff found to
be out of repair at any time, the city shall have the right to clean or repair
the same when needed without giving notice, and charge the cost thereof to the
owner, and if payment is refused, may turn off the water in the service until
same is paid. (2007 Code § 44-165)
13-1A-11: REQUIRED DEPTH OF SERVICE PIPES:
Service pipes must be laid at least five and one-half feet (51/2') below the
surface of the ground. No shutoff shall be placed less than five and one-half
feet (51/2') nor more than six and one-half feet (61/2') below the surface of
the established street grade. (2007 Code § 44-167)
13-1A-12: INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE AT EXPENSE OF OWNER:
   A.   Owner Liable For Expenses: All service connections, including the
corporation cock, shall be installed and maintained at the expense of the
owners of the property served.
   B.   Notify Owner Of Defects Or Leaks: If the city manager shall find that
any such service connection has become defective or leaks, the city manager may
give written notice to the owner of the property served by such connection,
describing the defect and directing the owner to repair the same. If such
defect is not promptly repaired by the owner, the water may be turned off until
the repair has been made. If the defect is a leak and such leakage continues
for more than three (3) days after such written notification, the property
owner shall be charged a rate per day, as established by the city manager,
after official publication, for each day thereafter that such leakage
continues. (2007 Code § 44-168)
13-1A-13: CONNECTING CITY LINES TO PRIVATE SYSTEMS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Use Of Water From Sources Other Than City: All connections supplied
with water from the city mains shall be supplied exclusively with such water
and no connection shall be allowed with any other system drawing its supply
from any other source, unless such connection is installed and maintained in
accordance with the approval of the city manager, and no auxiliary or secondary
suction pipe to any fire pump taking water from any other source will be
permitted.
   B.   Double Check Valve System: Where such connection or duplicate system
existed on February 9, 1959, the city manager may require the owner of the
premises to install a modern double check valve system of the type generally
known as the "factory mutual" fire service connection. Should the owner neglect
or refuse to make the required changes within ten (10) days, the city supply
shall be shut off. (2007 Code § 44-169)
ARTICLE B. WATER METERS
SECTION:
13-1B-1: Meters Required
13-1B-2: Meters Furnished By City Or Owner
13-1B-3: Unmeasured Flow Reducer Installed
13-1B-4: Location, Method Of Installation
13-1B-5: Remote Readers
13-1B-6: Services Larger Than Two Inches
13-1B-7: Installing Multiple Meters In Same Building
13-1B-8: Protecting Meter And Accessories From Damage
13-1B-9: Right To Repair Without Notice; Tampering Prohibited
13-1B-10: Check Valves On Water Heaters
13-1B-11: Accuracy, Testing
13-1B-12: Reading Meters
13-1B-1: METERS REQUIRED:
All permanent services must be metered, except fire protection services, which
may or may not be metered, at the discretion of the city manager or the city
manager's designee. (Ord. 49-11, 11-7-2011)
13-1B-2: METERS FURNISHED BY CITY OR OWNER:
All water meters in sizes from five-eighths inch (5/8") to one inch (1"),
inclusive, are furnished by the city without expense and repaired and kept in
first class condition by the city. Only one meter will be furnished for each
service line. Meters in excess of one desired for a single service line must be
purchased by the owner of the building in which the service is located. Meters
above one inch (1") in size must be purchased from the city and installed and
maintained by the owner of the property. (Ord. 49-11, 11-7-2011)
13-1B-3: UNMEASURED FLOW REDUCER INSTALLED:
All unmeasured flow reducer (UFR) devices must be installed where a five-
eighths inch (5/8") or three-fourths inch (3/4") meter is installed and a
pressure reducing valve or RPZ backflow device is not installed, and where by
installing this device does not compromise the water pressure to be less than
thirty five (35) psi. The UFR device will be furnished by the city as part of
the water meter assembly. (Ord. 49-11, 11-7-2011)
13-1B-4: LOCATION, METHOD OF INSTALLATION:
   A.   Meters must be installed just inside of the basement wall at the end of
the service pipe described in this chapter. Except as otherwise authorized by
the city manager or city manager's designee, the regular couplings, which are
sold as part of the meter, must remain intact when the meter has been
installed.
   B.   All meters must be installed horizontally between one foot (1') and
four feet (4') above the basement floor. A suitable place must be provided for
the meter so as to keep it dry and clean and readily accessible at all times to
the meter reader and inspectors of the city.
   C.   Wherever it is impossible to install a meter in the basement, the
plumber or other authorized person must obtain special instructions as to its
installation from the city manager or the city manager's designee.
   D.   A valve must be placed at the inlet side and a valve on the outlet side
of all meters. The types of permissible valves must be approved by the city
manager or the city manager's designee.
   E.   Should the city manager or the city manager's designee determine that
any meter has been improperly installed, notice must be given to the owner
requiring correction of the defect. If such defect is not corrected within five
(5) days of such notice, the city manager or the city manager's designee may
direct that the water supply be shut off and not be turned on again until the
defect has been repaired and a charge as established by the city manager or the
city manager's designee has been paid. (Ord. 49-11, 11-7-2011)
13-1B-5: REMOTE READERS:
   A.   Unless otherwise required by the city manager or the city manager's
designee, all water meters must have remote readers. The remote reader must be
installed at a location acceptable to the city manager or the city manager's
designee. Wiring for connecting the water meter to the remote reader must be of
the type designated by the city manager or the city manager's designee. The
remote reader must be of the type designated by the city manager or the city
manager's designee. The remote reader must be installed as required by the city
manager or the city manager's designee at a charge to the owner or owners as
established by the city manager or the city manager's designee. Payment for the
remote reader or readers must be made at the time of application for service.
   B.   Remote readers and related wires are the property of the city and must
not be removed, painted, or altered in any way from the place where installed
except as authorized by the city manager or the city manager's designee.
Tampering with a remote reader or related wires will result in a fee
established by the city manager or the city manager's designee, with the fee
being charged to the owner of the property. (Ord. 49-11, 11-7-2011)
13-1B-6: SERVICES LARGER THAN TWO INCHES:
For services larger than two inches (2") in diameter, the city reserves the
right to have installed two (2) or more meters of smaller size. Where meters
are so placed, each meter must have a valve or shutoff on both inlet and outlet
pipe, in addition to the basement shutoff. (Ord. 49-11, 11-7-2011)
13-1B-7: INSTALLING MULTIPLE METERS IN SAME BUILDING:
In the case that two (2) or more meters are desired for measuring water to
different tenants in the same building from one service connection, they must
be placed so that not one of them measures water that has passed through
another meter. (Ord. 49-11, 11-7-2011)
13-1B-8: PROTECTING METER AND ACCESSORIES FROM DAMAGE:
The owner of the premises where a meter is installed is responsible for the
care and protection of the meter, remote meter, related wires, and UFR device
where applicable, from freezing or hot water and from other injury or
interference. In all cases where meters, remote meters, related wires, or UFR
devices are broken or damaged except for ordinary wear, the necessary repairs
will be made by the city and the cost charged to the owner of the premises. In
case payment thereof is neglected or refused, the water supply must be turned
off until full payment has been made, together with a charge as established by
the city manager or the city manager's designee. (Ord. 49-11, 11-7-2011)
13-1B-9: RIGHT TO REPAIR WITHOUT NOTICE; TAMPERING PROHIBITED:
Damaged or stopped meters, remote readers, related wires, and UFR devices may
be removed and repaired by the city without first giving notice thereof to the
owner or user. No one shall in any way interfere with the proper registration
of a water meter, remote reader, related wires, or UFR device and no one except
an authorized city employee can break a seal, tamper with, or damage any meter,
remote reader, related wires, or UFR device; provided, however, that the city
manager or city manager's designee may grant permission to a licensed plumber
in case of emergency to break such seal for draining pipes or stopping water
leaks. (Ord. 49-11, 11-7-2011)
13-1B-10: CHECK VALVES ON WATER HEATERS:
Every hot water system should have a check valve installed between such system
and the water meter. Wherever a check valve is installed, there must also be
installed on the hot water distributing system a suitable relief valve to
protect the system from excessive pressure from hot water or steam. (Ord. 49-
11, 11-7-2011)
13-1B-11: ACCURACY, TESTING:
   A.   Where the accuracy of a meter is questioned, it will be removed by the
city at the request of the consumer and will be tested in his or her presence
by the city by means of the apparatus provided for that purpose. Both parties
to the test must accept the findings thus made.
   B.   If the meter is found to register satisfactorily the water actually
flowing through it, a charge as established by the city manager or city
manager's designee will be made to pay the cost of conducting the test. If the
meter is found to register unsatisfactorily the water flowing through it, no
charge will be made for the test, and a proportional reduction will be made
from the previous bill.
   C.   A water meter is considered to register satisfactorily when it
registers within two percent (2%) of accuracy. (Ord. 49-11, 11-7-2011)
13-1B-12: READING METERS:
Meters on all services must be read monthly. (Ord. 49-11, 11-7-2011)
ARTICLE C. RATES
SECTION:
13-1C-1: Residential, Commercial, Industrial And All Other Uses
13-1C-2: Fire Sprinkler Service
13-1C-3: Construction Use
13-1C-4: Payment Of Bills
13-1C-1: RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL AND ALL OTHER USES:
   A.   Rates Established: The rates to be charged for water for residential,
commercial, industrial and all other uses and purposes by any person, firm or
corporation within the city shall be based on units of one hundred (100) cubic
feet (seven hundred and forty-eight (748) gallons) or per gallon as follows:
 
Monthly Consumption         Charge Per
(In Hundreds Of Cubic Feet) Hundred Cubic Feet
   First 30              $5.30
   Next 120              $4.31
   Next 350              $4.01
   Next 500              $3.53
   Over 1,000            $3.13
 
 
Monthly Consumption Charge Per Gallon
(In Gallons)
   First 22,440  $0.00703
   Next 89,760   $0.00577
   Next 261,800  $0.00537
   Next 374,000  $0.00474
   Over 748,000  $0.00415
 
      Rates shall be subject to the following minimum monthly charge according
to the size of the meter:
Meter Size Monthly                     Monthly      Minimum
(Inches)   Consumption                 Consumption  Charge
           (In Hundreds Of Cubic Feet) (In Gallons)
Meter Size Monthly                     Monthly      Minimum
(Inches)   Consumption                 Consumption  Charge
           (In Hundreds Of Cubic Feet) (In Gallons)
   5/8  2                           1,496        $10.52
   3/4  5                           3,740        $26.31
   1    8                           5,984        $42.08
   11/2 26                          19,448       $127.69
   2    46                          34,408       $226.79
   3    106                         79,288       $485.62
   4    168                         125,664      $747.71
   6    368                         275,264      $1,550.70
   8    625                         467,500      $2,523.97
 
      A property owner shall pay a fifty dollars ($50.00) disconnect fee for
water service that is disconnected by the city for a meter not in service. When
a tenant account is subject to disconnection due to delinquency, the tenant
shall pay the fifty dollars ($50.00) disconnect fee.
      A fifty dollars ($50.00) service call fee shall be changed to property
owners or tenant account for those service calls that are determined to be
related to customer negligence.
      A nine dollars sixty-one cents ($9.61) minimum monthly charge shall be
assessed for meters not in service.
   B.   Rates Outside City Limits: The rates to be charged for water supplied
by the City to residential, commercial, industrial and other uses and purposes
by any person outside the corporation limits of the City, shall be at one
hundred fifty percent (150%) of the rates set forth in subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Estimated Billings: For all meters in service, bills will be issued
monthly. When a meter is not read monthly for any reason, bills will be issued
on estimated consumption. For estimated billings, either on alternate months or
when readings are not obtainable for any reason, consumption will be predicated
on the monthly average of past usage for the meter. For estimated bills issued
for an account in which historical data is not available, billing will be
predicated on the minimum charge and related consumption identified for the
size of the meter in service for the particular account.
   D.   Adjustments From Estimated Readings: Adjustments from estimated
readings will be made when an actual meter reading is obtained. The adjustment
will be reflected on the user’s next regular bill.
   E.   Residential Rate Exception: The city manager shall establish a policy
for evaluating cases of extreme financial hardship and the city’s ability to
make adjustments in the monthly residential rate as determined by the terms and
conditions of the policy and the funds allocated, and available, through the
budget process. (2007 Code § 44-201; amd. Ord. 15-19, 3-7-2019, eff. 7-1-2019;
Ord. 14-20, 4-23-2020; Ord. 23-20, 6-1-2020; Ord. 6-21, 3-24-2021, eff. 7-1-
2021; Ord. 10-22, eff. 7-1-2022; Ord. 11-23, 3-23-2023, eff. 7-1-2023; Ord. 10-
24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024; Ord. 10-25, 4-28-2025; Ord. 25-25, 6-16-2025)
13-1C-2: FIRE SPRINKLER SERVICE:
Customers who have fire sprinkler service shall be billed for this service on a
monthly basis. The monthly charge shall be as follows:
Current Number Of Heads Monthly Charges
Current Number Of Heads                                        Monthly Charges
Up to 200 (minimum)                                            $32.24
     200 - 299                                            $38.70
     300 - 399                                            $45.06
     400 - 599                                            $51.58
     600 - 799                                            $57.96
     800 - 999                                            $64.45
     1,000 - 1,199                                        $70.92
     1,200 - 1,399                                        $77.30
     1,400 - 1,599                                        $83.75
   1,600 - 1,799                                            $90.21
   1,800 - 1,999                                            $96.60
   2,000 - 2,199                                            $103.08
     2,200 - 2,399                                        $109.51
     2,400 - 2,599                                        $115.98
   2,600 - 2,799                                            $122.41
   2,800 - 2,900                                            $129.02
     3,000 - 3,499                                        $135.28
Over 3,500 (for each additional 500 heads or fraction thereof) $6.43
 
(Ord. 16-19, 3-7-2019, eff. 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 15-20, 4-23-2020; Ord. 7-21, 3-
24-2021, eff. 7-1-2021; Ord. 11-22, eff. 7-1-2022; Ord. 12-23, 3-23-2023, eff.
7-1-2023; Ord. 11-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024; Ord. 11-25, 4-28-2025, eff. 7-
1-2025; Ord. 24-25, 6-16-2025)
13-1C-3: CONSTRUCTION USE:
   A.   Application For Temporary Water Service; Deposit: When a temporary
water service is desired for construction work, application shall be made to
the City Manager. A deposit equal to the actual cost of the meter and fittings
shall be paid in advance. The applicant shall guarantee payment of such water
service charges and return said meter in good condition.
   B.   Installation Of Meter: The applicant shall thereupon install a suitable
meter, furnished by the City, and shall pay for all water furnished in
accordance with the then prevailing water rates including minimum monthly
charges.
   C.   Payment Of Charge When Installation Of Meter Impractical: If it is the
opinion of the City Manager that placement of a meter is impractical, then the
deposit for meter and fittings shall not be required, but a charge, as
determined by the City Manager, after official publication, shall be made, but
under no circumstances shall water be used for sprinkling lawns, wetting down
yards or compacting of soil unless a meter has been installed on the service,
or arrangements have been made for such usage.
   D.   Water Rate For Various Other Purposes: The rate for water charged for
other purposes not mentioned herein, such as for circuses, carnivals, fairs,
skating rinks, swimming pools, tank wagons and filling cisterns will be made by
the City Manager when application is made for the same at the Water Office.
(2007 Code § 44-203)
13-1C-4: PAYMENT OF BILLS:
   A.   Locations For Payment Of Bills: Payment of bills may be made at
locations that have been designated by the City Manager, after official
publication.
   B.   Due When Rendered: All utility bills are due when rendered. (Ord. 31-
08, 5-5-2008)
   C.   Late Payments; Procedure Upon Delinquency:
      1.   If a bill remains unpaid twenty five (25) days following the billing
date, there will be added to the bill a penalty of five percent (5%) of the
total utility bill for late payment.
      2.   If bills are not paid within thirty (30) days following the billing
date, the city reserves the right to discontinue water service to the
delinquent customer by shutting off the water service. The water service will
not be restored until all current, delinquent, and penalty charges, in addition
to a turn on charge, have been paid.
      3.   If a delinquency exists for a rental property in excess of sixty
(60) days, the owner must assume responsibility for the future billings to such
account.
   D.   Lien For Nonpayment:
      1.   The city will have a lien upon the real property served by the
city's water system for all delinquent charges. It is the duty of the city
treasurer to certify such delinquent charges, plus the costs of administration,
to the county treasurer and all such delinquent charges and costs will then
constitute a lien against said property and be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes on said property.
      2.   Bills for delinquent water service charges are subject to a
delinquency lien certification when the same are unpaid for a period of sixty
(60) days after the due date.
      3.   For all active water service accounts, if full payment of all
charges billed, including late payment charges, is not received within thirty
(30) days after the billing date, the city will send a notice of pending lien
to the account holder in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. The
notice must be sent at least thirty (30) days prior to certification of the
lien to the county to such persons by ordinary mail to their last known
addresses as reflected in the computer database account records of the city or
in the county auditor's real estate computer data file. The notice must include
the delinquent charge(s) and must indicate that if payment of the total amount
is not made by a certain date (corresponding to the sixtieth day after the
billing date for the delinquent account), the delinquent charge(s) will be
certified to the county as a lien against the property or premises owned or
rented by the account holder in whose name the delinquent charges were
incurred.
      4.   For all final water service accounts, if full payment of all charges
billed, including late payment charges, is not received within thirty (30) days
after the billing date, the city will send a notice of pending lien to the
account holder in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. The notice
must be sent at least thirty (30) days prior to certification of the lien to
the county to such persons by ordinary mail to their last known addresses as
reflected in the computer database account records of the city or in the county
auditor's real    estate computer data file. The notice must indicate that if
payment of the total amount is not made by a certain date (corresponding to the
sixtieth day after the billing date for that delinquent account), the
delinquent charge or charges will be certified to the county as a lien against
the property or premises owned or rented by the account holder in whose name
the delinquent account charges were incurred.
      5.   If full payment of all charges billed in an active water service
account billing statement, including late payment charges, is not received
within sixty (60) days after the billing date, the city treasurer, as the
city's billing and collection agent, will prepare an assessment schedule
listing such unpaid charges therein.
   If full payment of all charges billed in a final water service account
billing statement, including late payment charges, is not received within sixty
(60) days after the billing date, the city treasurer, as the city's billing and
collection agent, will prepare an assessment schedule listing such unpaid
charges therein.
   A five dollar ($5.00) administrative processing fee will be charged to each
delinquent account at the time it is included in the assessment schedule, which
amount will be separately identified on the assessment schedule and included in
the amount being assessed. The city treasurer will prepare an assessment
schedule at least quarterly, listing all delinquent water service charges, and
late payment charges, which accrued in the prior month or since the last
assessment schedule was certified. Each such assessment schedule must also
identify each delinquent charge by name of the account holder in whose name the
delinquent rates or charges were incurred, must identify each property for
which water service charge is delinquent, and must show the delinquent charges
and the administrative processing fee to be assessed against each such property
owned or rented by the delinquent account holder. The city treasurer is hereby
delegated the authority, on behalf of the city, to certify and file each such
assessment schedule with the county treasurer as provided in the Iowa Code
section 384.84.
      6.   Such lien will be enforced until payment in full of the delinquent
charges and the administrative processing fee shown on the assessment schedule
is made at the office of the county treasurer. (Ord. 53-12, 9-17-2012; amd.
Ord. 3-20, 1-21-2020)
ARTICLE D. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
13-1D-1: Purpose
13-1D-2: Definitions
13-1D-3: City Manager's Authority
13-1D-4: New Water Services
13-1D-5: Existing Water Services
13-1D-6: Customer Responsibilities
13-1D-7: Required Backflow Prevention Assemblies
13-1D-8: Customer Noncompliance
13-1D-9: Fees
13-1D-10: Penalty
13-1D-11: Separability Of Provisions
13-1D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to safeguard potable water supplies by
preventing backflow into public water systems. (2007 Code § 44-205)
13-1D-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, these definitions supersede definitions given
elsewhere in this code:
AIR GAP WATER DISTRIBUTION: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet conveying potable
water to the flood level rim of any tank, vat, or fixture.
APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY FOR CONTAINMENT: A backflow prevention
assembly which is listed by the University of Southern California Foundation
for Cross Connection Control And Hydraulic Research as having met the
requirements of ANSI- AWWA standard C510-89, "double check valve backflow-
prevention assemblies", or ANSI-AWWA standard C511-89, "reduced-pressure
principle backflow-prevention assemblies" for containment. The listing shall
include the limitations of use based on the degree of hazard. The backflow
prevention assembly must also be listed by the International Association of
Plumbing and Mechanical Officials.
APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY FOR CONTAINMENT IN A FIRE PROTECTION
SYSTEM: A backflow prevention assembly to be used in a fire protection system
which meets the requirements of Factory Mutual Research Corporation (FM) or
Underwriters Laboratories (UL), and the requirement of the fire code and the
building code of the city of Dubuque, in addition to the requirements of
subsection 13-1D-7B of this article. Devices sized smaller than two and one-
half inches (21/2") diameter, which have not been listed by Underwriters
Laboratories (UL) or by Factory Mutual Research Corporation (FM) may be allowed
if approved by the administrative authority.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the water purveyor's approved public water supply, such as, but not
limited to, a private well, pond, or river.
CONTAINMENT: A method of backflow prevention which requires the installation of
a backflow prevention assembly at the water service entrance.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the potable water which creates
an actual hazard to the public health through poisoning or through the spread
of disease by sewage, industrial fluids or waste. Also defined as "high
hazard".
CROSS CONNECTION: Any actual or potential connection or arrangement, physical
or otherwise, between a potable water supply system and any plumbing fixture or
tank, receptacle, equipment, or device, through which it may be possible for
nonpotable, used, unclean, polluted, and contaminated water, or other
substance, to enter into any part of such potable water system under any
condition.
CUSTOMER: The owner, operator, or occupant of a building or property which has
a water service from a public water system, or the owner or operator of a
private water system which has a water service from a public water system.
DEGREE OF HAZARD: The rating of a cross connection or water service which
indicates if it has the potential to cause contamination or pollution.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: A backflow prevention device
consisting of two (2) independently acting internally loaded check valves, four
(4) properly located test cocks, and two (2) isolation valves.
HIGH HAZARD CROSS CONNECTION: A cross connection which may cause an impairment
of the quality of the potable water by creating an actual hazard to the public
health, through poisoning or through the spread of disease by sewage,
industrial fluids, or waste.
ISOLATION: A method of backflow prevention in which a backflow prevention
assembly is located at the cross connection rather than at the water service
entrance.
LOW HAZARD CROSS CONNECTION: A cross connection which may cause an impairment
of the quality of potable water to a degree which does not create a hazard to
the public health, but which does adversely and unreasonably affect the
aesthetic qualities of such potable waters for domestic use.
POLLUTION: An impairment of the quality of the potable water to a degree which
does not create hazard to the public health but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect the aesthetic qualities of such potable water for domestic
use.
POTABLE WATER: Water which is satisfactory for drinking, culinary, and domestic
purposes and meets the requirements of the health authority having
jurisdiction.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: Public owned or operated system consisting of source
facilities and distribution system under the complete control of the
administrative authority. Regulative control shall include any and all
distribution piping connected to said system.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: A backflow prevention
device consisting of two (2) independently acting internally loaded check
valves, a different pressure relief valve, four (4) properly located test
cocks, and two (2) isolation valves.
REGISTERED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TECHNICIAN: A person who is registered
with the Iowa state health department to test or repair backflow prevention
assemblies and report on the condition of those assemblies.
THERMAL EXPANSION: Volumetric increase of water due to heating resulting in
increased pressure in a closed system.
WATER SERVICE: Depending on the context, water service is the physical
connection between a public water system and a customer's building, property,
or private water system, or the act of providing potable water to a customer.
(2007 Code § 44-206)
13-1D-3: CITY MANAGER'S AUTHORITY:
   A.   Right Of Entry For Inspection: The city manager shall have the right to
enter any property to inspect for possible cross connections.
   B.   Collect Fees: The city manager may collect fees for the administration
of this program. Said fees shall be set by the city manager.
   C.   Maintain Records: The city manager shall maintain records of cross
connection hazard surveys, and the installation, testing, and repair of all
backflow prevention assemblies installed for containment purposes. (2007 Code §
44-207)
13-1D-4: NEW WATER SERVICES:
   A.   Submission Of Plans: Plans shall be submitted to the city manager for
review on all new water services in order to determine the degree of hazard.
   B.   Type Of Assembly Required: The city manager shall determine the type of
backflow prevention assembly required for containment based on the degree of
hazard.
   C.   Installation Requirement: The city manager shall require the
installation of the appropriate backflow prevention assembly for containment
before the initiation of water service. (2007 Code § 44-208.1)
13-1D-5: EXISTING WATER SERVICES:
   A.   Upgrades Of Existing Services: Upgrades of existing water services
shall be treated as new water services for the purposes of this article.
   B.   Provide Copy Of Standards: The city manager shall publish and make
available to each customer a copy of the standards used to determine the degree
of hazard.
   C.   Notify Customers Of Classification: After publication of the standards,
the city manager shall, in writing, notify customers whose premises are
classified as commercial and/or industrial of the provisions of this article
and shall require compliance therewith.
   D.   Customers Provide Hazard Survey: Within six (6) months after receipt of
the notification in subsection C of this section, customers whose premises are
classified as commercial and/or industrial shall complete and return to the
city manager a cross connection hazard survey to be used to determine the type
of containment device.
   E.   Failure To Provide Survey: A customer who fails to complete and return
the cross connection survey form required by subsection D of this section to
the city manager within the designated time frame shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in section
13-1D-10 of this article.
   F.   Determine Type Of Assembly Required: The city manager shall, on the
basis of information received from customers or gathered through on premises
investigations or surveys, determine the type of backflow prevention assembly
required for containment based on the degree of hazard.
   G.   Time Limit For Installation: Within the time frame specified in writing
by the city manager, the customer shall install a backflow prevention assembly
for containment required by the city manager.
   H.   Actions Upon High Hazard Determination: For existing water services,
the city manager may inspect the premises to determine the degree of hazard.
When high hazard cross connections are found, the city manager shall, at its
sole discretion:
      1.   Develop a schedule of compliance which the customer shall follow; or
      2.   Terminate the water service until a backflow prevention assembly for
containment required by the city manager has been installed.
   I.   Compliance By Customer Required: Failure of the city manager to notify
a customer that the customer is believed to have a high hazard cross connection
and that the customer shall install backflow prevention assemblies for
containment in no way relieves the customer of the responsibility to comply
with all requirements of this article. (2007 Code § 44-208.2)
13-1D-6: CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Ensure Nonexistence Of Cross Connections: The customer shall be
responsible for ensuring that no cross connections exist without approved
backflow protection within the customer's premises starting at the point of
service from the public potable water system.
   B.   Installation, Testing And Maintenance: The customer shall, at the
customer's own expense, cause installation, operation, testing and maintenance
of the backflow prevention assembly required by the city manager.
   C.   Provide City With Copies Of Records: The customer shall ensure the city
manager is provided with copies of records of the installation of all tests and
repairs made to the backflow prevention assembly on the approved form within
fifteen (15) days after testing and/or repairs are completed.
   D.   Notify City Of Backflow Incidents; Remedial Action: In the event of a
backflow incident, the customer shall immediately notify the city manager of
the incident and take immediate action to confine the contamination or
pollution. (2007 Code § 44-209)
13-1D-7: REQUIRED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Water Services:
      1.   An air gap or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly is required for water service that has been determined by
the city manager to be high hazard.
      2.   An approved double check valve assembly is required for water
service that has been determined by the city manager to be low hazard. (2007
Code § 44-210.1)
   B.   Fire Protection Systems:
      1.   A reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be
installed on all new and existing fire protection systems which the
administrative authority determines to have any of the following:
         a.   Direct connections from public water mains with an auxiliary
water supply on or available to the premises for pumper connections;
         b.   Interconnections with auxiliary supplies such as reservoirs,
rivers, ponds, wells, mills, or other industrial water systems;
         c.   Use of antifreeze or other additives in the fire protection
system;
         d.   Combined industrial or domestic with high hazard and fire
protection systems supplied from the public water mains only, with or without
gravity storage or pump suction tanks; or
         e.   Any other facility, connection, or condition which may cause
contamination.
      2.   A double check valve assembly shall be required for all other fire
protection systems. The double check valve shall be required on all new systems
at the time of installation and on existing systems at the time that they are
upgraded. (2007 Code § 44-210.2)
   C.   Backflow Prevention Assembly Technician:
      1.   Registration: A backflow prevention assembly technician registered
by the state shall include such technician's registration number on all
correspondence and forms required by or associated with this article. (2007
Code § 44-210.3)
      2.   Noncompliance By Technician:
         a.   The registration of a technician shall be recommended for
revocation or suspension for a period of up to two (2) years for noncompliance
with this article. Further action shall be taken as prescribed by law to
prevent further noncompliance.
         b.   Any of the following conditions shall constitute noncompliance:
            (1)   Improper testing or repair of backflow prevention assemblies;
            (2)   Improper reporting of the results of testing or of repairs
made to backflow prevention assemblies;
            (3)   Failure to meet registration requirements; or
            (4)   Related unethical practices. (2007 Code § 44-210.4)
   D.   Installation Of Backflow Prevention Assemblies:
      1.   Installation; Location: The required backflow prevention assemblies
for containment shall be installed in horizontal plumbing immediately following
the meter or as close to that location as deemed practical by the
administrative authority. In any case, it shall be located upstream from any
branch piping. Installation at this point does not eliminate the responsibility
of the customer to protect the water supply system from containment or
pollution between the backflow prevention assembly and the water main.
      2.   Protection From Flooding: Reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assemblies shall be installed so as to be protected from flooding.
      3.   Underground Vaults Or Pits: Reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assemblies shall not be installed in underground vaults or pits.
      4.   Protection From Freezing: All backflow prevention assemblies shall
be protected to prevent freezing. Those devices used for seasonal services may
be removed in lieu of being protected from freezing; however, the devices must
be reinstalled and tested by a registered backflow prevention assembly
technician prior to service being reactivated.
      5.   Hot Water; Thermal Expansion Required: If hot water is used within
the water system, thermal expansion shall be provided for when installing a
backflow prevention assembly for containment.
      6.   Discharge To Suitable Drain: Provisions shall be made to convey the
discharge of water from reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assemblies to a suitable drain.
      7.   Safety Hazard Prohibited: No backflow prevention assemblies shall be
installed in a place where it would create a safety hazard, such as, but not
limited to, over an electrical panel, or above ceiling level.
      8.   Interruption Of Water Service: If interruption of water service
during testing and repair of backflow prevention assemblies for containment is
unacceptable to the customer, another backflow prevention assembly, sized to
handle the temporary water flow need during the time of test or repair, should
be installed in parallel piping. All such installations shall be at the
customer's expense.
      9.   Accessibility For Testing: All backflow prevention assemblies shall
be installed so that they are accessible for testing as stated in this article.
      10.   Shutoff Valves: All shutoff valves shall conform to the current
edition of the "Manual Of Cross Connection Control" (University of Southern
California) requirements for either ball or resilient seat gate valves at the
time of installation. Ball valves shall be used on assemblies installed in
piping two inches (2") and smaller and resilient gate valves on assemblies
installed in piping larger than two inches (2"). (2007 Code § 44-210.5)
   E.   Testing Of Backflow Prevention Assemblies:
      1.   Testing of backflow prevention assemblies shall be performed by a
registered backflow prevention assembly technician. The costs of tests required
in the following subsections E2 through E5 of this section shall be borne by
the customer.
      2.   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested upon installation and
tested and inspected at least annually.
      3.   Backflow prevention assemblies which are in place, but have been out
of operation for more than three (3) months, shall be tested before being put
back into operation. Backflow prevention assemblies used in seasonal
applications shall be tested before being put into operation each season.
      4.   Any backflow prevention assembly which fails a periodic test shall
be repaired or replaced. When water service has been terminated for
noncompliance, the backflow prevention assembly shall be repaired or replaced
prior to the resumption of water service. Backflow prevention assemblies shall
be retested by a registered backflow prevention assembly technician immediately
after repair or replacement.
      5.   The city manager may require backflow prevention assemblies to be
tested at any time in addition to the annual testing requirement.
      6.   The registered backflow prevention assembly technician shall report
the successful test of a backflow prevention assembly to the customer and to
the city manager on the form provided by the city manager within fifteen (15)
days of the test.
      7.   The city manager may require, at its own cost, additional tests of
individual backflow prevention assemblies as it shall deem necessary to verify
test procedures and results. (2007 Code § 44-210.6)
   F.   Repair Of Backflow Prevention Assemblies:
      1.   All repairs to backflow prevention assemblies shall be performed by
registered backflow prevention assembly technicians.
      2.   The registered backflow prevention assembly technician shall not
change the design, material, or operational characteristics of a backflow
prevention assembly during repair or maintenance, and shall use only original
manufacturer replacement parts.
      3.   The registered backflow prevention assembly technician shall report
the repair of a backflow prevention assembly to the customer and to the city
manager on the form provided by the city manager within fifteen (15) days of
the repair. The report shall include the list of materials or replacement parts
used. (2007 Code § 44-210.7)
13-1D-8: CUSTOMER NONCOMPLIANCE:
The water service may be discontinued in the case of noncompliance with this
article, including the following:
   A.   Refusal to allow the city manager access to the property to inspect for
cross connections;
   B.   Removal of a backflow prevention assembly which has been required by
the city manager;
   C.   Bypassing of a backflow prevention assembly which has been required by
the city manager;
   D.   Providing inadequate backflow prevention when cross connections exist;
   E.   Failure to install a backflow prevention assembly which has been
required by the city manager;
   F.   Failure to test and/or properly repair a backflow prevention assembly
as required by the city manager; or
   G.   Failure to comply with the requirements of this article. (2007 Code §
44-211)
13-1D-9: FEES:
The city manager is hereby directed to establish a permit fee for new
installations and a fee for annual inspections of backflow prevention devices,
which fee shall be fair and reasonable considering the current cost of material
and labor. The minimum permit and inspection fee shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00). (2007 Code § 44-212)
13-1D-10: PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to repair,
move, improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any
building or structure or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of
this article.
   B.   The doing of any act, or the omission of any act, declared to be
unlawful by this article, or any code or division herein adopted by reference
shall be deemed a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any such unlawful act is omitted, continued or permitted and, upon
conviction, shall be punishable as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
The penalty herein provided shall be cumulative with and in addition to the
revocation, cancellation or forfeiture of any license or permit elsewhere in
this code provided for violation thereof. (2007 Code § 44-213)
13-1D-11: SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
It is the intention that each section, paragraph, sentence, clause, and
provision of this article is separable, and if any provision is held
unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such decision shall not affect the
remainder of this article nor any part thereof other than that affected by such
decision. (2007 Code § 44-214)
CHAPTER 2
SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
13-2-1: Definitions
13-2-2: Certain Disposal Methods Prohibited
13-2-3: Connection To Public Sewer
13-2-4: Connections Prior To Improving Streets
13-2-5: Conformance With City Plumbing Rules And Regulations
13-2-6: Construction, Maintenance And Operation Costs
13-2-7: Sanitary Sewer Connection Fees
13-2-8: Destruction Of Sewage Works Property
13-2-9: Notice Of Violation; Time Limit For Correction
13-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD(c) (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C) expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager, or the city manager's designee, of the city of
Dubuque, Iowa.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
CONTRIBUTOR: Refers to any person, firm or corporation responsible for the
production of domestic, commercial or industrial waste which is directly or
indirectly discharged into the city's sewer system.
GARBAGE: Wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastes from industrial manufacturing processes, trade or
business, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface or ground water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any direction.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface waters, and stormwaters as may be presented.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing
of sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL; MAY: Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal
operation.
STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries stormwater and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY: Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating sewage.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (2007 Code § 44-11)
13-2-2: CERTAIN DISPOSAL METHODS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Deposits On Public Or Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the city, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste, except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Discharges To Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said
city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Privies, Privy Vaults, Septic Tanks: It shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage, except in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (2007 Code § 44-13)
13-2-3: CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER:
   A.   Connection Required: The owner of any house, building, or property used
for occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
city and abutting on any street, alley, right of way or easement in which there
is now located, or may in the future be located, within two hundred feet (200')
of the nearest property line thereof, a public sanitary sewer of the city, is
hereby required at the owner's expense to connect such facilities directly with
the proper public sewer, in accordance with city standards as adopted by the
city manager and the provisions of title 14, chapter 1, article H of this code
requiring the making of connections with sanitary sewers and providing for the
manner of making such connections. (2007 Code § 44-14)
   B.   Exception: Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the
provisions of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
on site sewage treatment and disposal system complying with the provisions of
this chapter. (2007 Code § 44-15)
   C.   Costs Borne By Owner: All costs and expense incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. (2007 Code
§ 44-16)
13-2-4: CONNECTIONS PRIOR TO IMPROVING STREETS:
   A.   City Authority To Require: Before any street, highway, avenue, alley or
public ground is permanently improved, the city council, by the passage of a
resolution, may require connections from sewer mains to be made by the owners
of abutting property to the curb line of such property, and a notice of such
requirements shall be given to the property owners as provided for in this
chapter. (2007 Code § 44-17)
   B.   Notice To Owners: As soon as the resolution requiring connections to
the sewer mains to be made as provided for in this chapter is passed and
adopted by the city council, a written notice shall be served upon each person
owning property along the street, avenue or alley proposed to be improved,
which notice shall order such property owner to make connections to the curb
line with sewer mains located in such streets, and thereupon it shall be the
duty of the owners of such property to comply with such notice. The notice
shall prescribe whether or not more than one connection is required to be made
and the description of the lot or parcel of real estate to which the same is to
be made and, in each instance, such owner shall be advised of the number of
connections that are required to be made. (2007 Code § 44-18)
   C.   Time Limit For Completion: The resolution passed by the council
pursuant to this chapter and the notice that is served upon the property owner
shall prescribe the time within which connections are to be made with such
mains as herein provided for, and the notice shall be final unless the time is
extended by the city council upon application made therefor. (2007 Code § 44-
19)
   D.   Performance Of Work By City; Collection Of Costs: If the property owner
upon whom notice has been served pursuant to this chapter to make the
connections as provided for in this chapter should fail or refuse to make such
connections within the time provided for in the resolution and notice, then the
city council may proceed to have such connections made upon a contract made and
entered into for that purpose and the cost of making such connections shall be
assessed to the property owner and shall be collected in the same manner as
other special assessments are collected, except that the whole amount of such
assessments shall become due at once and shall not be payable in installments.
(2007 Code § 44-20)
13-2-5: CONFORMANCE WITH CITY PLUMBING RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The construction and connection of the building sewer to and into the public
sewer shall conform to the requirements of the plumbing ordinances or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city. (2007 Code § 44-21)
13-2-6: CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION COSTS:
The cost and expense of financing the construction and maintenance and the
operation of the sewage treatment plant shall be paid from the sewage fund as
budgeted and appropriated therefor each fiscal year. (2007 Code § 44-22)
13-2-7: SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION FEES:
   A.   Payment Required: Any person desiring to connect a building sewer to a
public sewer for property that has not previously been assessed for said sewer
or the property owner has not previously paid for said sewer through
development fees or otherwise shall first pay a sewer connection fee to the
city, which sanitary sewer connection fee may from time to time be established
by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Fee Set By Resolution: The sanitary sewer connection fee shall be as
established by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Private Sewers; Reimbursement Of Portion Of Fee: For all sanitary
sewers that were constructed privately and dedicated to the city prior to the
adoption of this section and which were the subject of previous resolutions, a
portion of the connection fee shall be reimbursed to the person who constructed
the sanitary sewer and in the amount and according to the procedure set forth
in the original resolution establishing the connection fee.
   D.   Extension Of Public Sewer: Nothing in this section shall be construed
to establish any charge for the extension of a public sewer by the city, or its
permittees. (2007 Code § 44-24)
13-2-8: DESTRUCTION OF SEWAGE WORKS PROPERTY:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. (2007 Code § 44-23)
13-2-9: NOTICE OF VIOLATION; TIME LIMIT FOR CORRECTION:
Except as otherwise provided, any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
13-2-8 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a ten (10) day limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. The provisions hereof
shall not apply to sections
13-2A-2 and
13-2A-3 of this chapter. (2007 Code § 44-12)
ARTICLE A. DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
13-2A-1: Discharge Of Stormwater And Other Unpolluted Drainage
13-2A-2: Discharge Of Objectionable Items
13-2A-3: Discharge Of Harmful Substances
13-2A-4: Authority To Regulate Discharge Of Harmful Substances
13-2A-5: Special Agreements Authorized
13-2A-6: Responsibilities Of Owners Of Treatment Or Flow Equalizing Facilities
13-2A-7: Manholes, Meters And Sampling Equipment
13-2A-8: Testing Standards
13-2A-9: Authority To Enter Properties For Testing Discharges
13-2A-10: Authority To Enter On Easement Property For Sewage Works Inspection
And Repair
13-2A-1: DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE:
   A.   Drainage Into Certain Areas Prohibited:
      1.   Into Sanitary Sewer; Sump Pumps And Sump Pump Connections
Prohibited: No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
including interior and exterior foundation drains, floor drains used for
collecting stormwater, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial
process waters, to any sanitary sewer. This subsection shall be construed to
prohibit such discharge to any sanitary sewer from sump pumps or sump pump
connections, and no person shall install, cause to be installed, or permit to
be installed any sump pump or sump pump connection that discharges or causes
such discharge to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   Into Storm Sewers Or Natural Outlets: Stormwater and all other
unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically
designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the city
manager. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the city manager to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(2007 Code § 44-31)
   B.   Air Conditioning Systems:
      1.   Except as otherwise specifically authorized or required by this
code, it shall be unlawful to discharge any air conditioning water, drip pans,
refrigeration water or cooling tower water, directly or indirectly into any
sanitary sewer or upon any public property, whether the water originated in a
public or private water supply; provided, however, that such water may be
discharged into a sanitary sewer if the same comes from equipment so designed
that the total rate of discharge of this type of equipment from the premises
served on such sewer could not exceed five (5) gallons per minute, but in no
event shall the same be discharged either directly or indirectly upon any
public roadway, walkway, street, alley or other public property.
      2.   Separate water meters of the kind and type as specified by the water
department may be installed in all instances where water from the public water
supply is used for air conditioners, refrigeration or other processing and such
clear water wastes are discharged to the storm sewer or disposed of by other
means than the sanitary sewer; the purpose of metering such water will be used
as a deduct quantity of water used for determination of the sewage service
charge. (2007 Code § 44-32)
13-2A-2: DISCHARGE OF OBJECTIONABLE ITEMS:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   A.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   B.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes
to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment facility, including, but not
limited to, cyanides in excess of two (2) milligrams per liter as CN in the
wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
   C.   Any waters or wastes having pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 12 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   D.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   E.   Any waters or wastes having BOD(c) greater than three hundred (300)
parts per million by weight, or containing more than three hundred fifty (350)
parts per million by weight of suspended solids, or having an average daily
flow greater than two percent (2%) of the average influent at the wastewater
treatment facility, shall be subject to the review of the city manager. Where
necessary, in the opinion of the city manager, the owner shall provide at the
owner's expense such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to reduce the
biochemical oxygen demand to three hundred (300) parts per million by weight,
or reduce the suspended solids to three hundred fifty (350) parts per million
by weight, or control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the city manager, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing. (2007 Code § 44-33)
13-2A-3: DISCHARGE OF HARMFUL SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Generally: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears
likely in the opinion of the city manager that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, wastewater treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the city manager will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of the subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the wastewater
treatment process, capacity of the wastewater treatment facility, and other
pertinent factors.
   B.   Prohibited Substances: The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F), or sixty degrees Celsius (60°C).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two (32) and one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F), or
zero and sixty degrees Celsius (60°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric), or greater, shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city manager.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding the limit of five-
hundredths milligram per liter (0.05 mg/l) established by the city manager as
necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of
the state, federal or other public agencies or jurisdiction for such discharge
to the receiving waters.
      6.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city manager in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      7.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD(c), chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the wastewater
treatment facilities.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes, constituting
slugs as defined in section
13-2-1 of this chapter.
      8.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment
facility effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters. (2007 Code § 44-34)
13-2A-4: AUTHORITY TO REGULATE DISCHARGE OF HARMFUL SUBSTANCES:
   A.   City Authority: If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed
to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in this article, and which in the
judgment of the city manager may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city manager may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
   B.   City Review And Approval: If the city manager permits the pretreatment
or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the city manager and
subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws. (2007
Code § 44-35)
13-2A-5: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED:
No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
(2007 Code § 44-36)
13-2A-6: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS OF TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at the owner's expense. (2007 Code § 44-37)
13-2A-7: MANHOLES, METERS AND SAMPLING EQUIPMENT:
When required by the city manager, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters, sampling equipment and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the city manager. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner's
own expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and
accessible at all times. (2007 Code § 44-38)
13-2A-8: TESTING STANDARDS:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Waste Water", published by the American Public Health Association,
and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable
samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has
been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer
is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (2007 Code § 44-39)
13-2A-9: AUTHORITY TO ENTER PROPERTIES FOR TESTING DISCHARGES:
   A.   Limited Authority: The city manager and other duly authorized employees
of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article. The
city manager or the city manager's representatives shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining,
ceramic, paper or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities
for waste treatment.
   B.   Observance Of Safety Rules: While performing the necessary work on
private properties referred to in subsection A of this section, the city
manager or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company. (2007 Code § 44-40)
13-2A-10: AUTHORITY TO ENTER ON EASEMENT PROPERTY FOR SEWAGE WORKS INSPECTION
AND REPAIR:
The city manager and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (2007 Code § 44-41)
ARTICLE B. PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS; PRIVATE HAULERS
SECTION:
13-2B-1: Permit Required; Application, Form And Fee
13-2B-2: Issuance Of Permit; Inspection; Completion Of Installation
13-2B-3: Connections To Private Treatment And Disposal Systems
13-2B-4: Private Disposal Facilities Not Expense To City
13-2B-5: Abandonment Of Private Treatment And Disposal System
13-2B-6: Right Of Entry For Inspection And Testing
13-2B-7: Appeals From Orders Of City Manager
13-2B-8: Private Haulers
13-2B-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION, FORM AND FEE:
   A.   Permit Required; Application: Before construction of a private on site
sewage treatment and disposal system the owner shall first apply to the city
manager for a written permit.
   B.   Contents Of Application: The application for such permit shall be made
on a form furnished by the city, and shall include the following:
      1.   A plan by a registered professional engineer detailing the location
and design of the septic tank and secondary treatment system;
      2.   The location of any well or water distribution system within two
hundred feet (200') of the property line;
      3.   The name of the person who will do the work;
      4.   Percolation test results and an engineering evaluation of the soil
conditions by a registered professional engineer in the state; and
      5.   Such other information as may be requested by the city manager, and
as required by state laws and regulations.
   C.   Statement On Application: The application form shall state that the
issuance of said installation permit is conditioned upon the applicant
complying with all provisions of this article and shall specifically state as
follows:
         By acceptance of a permit, the property owner agrees that when a
public sewer is constructed within two hundred feet (200') of the property
line, the building sewer shall be connected to said sewer in accordance with
City standards adopted by the City Manager and within three hundred sixty five
(365) days from the date of written notification by the City Manager and the
private on-site sewage treatment and disposal system abandoned in accordance
with subsection
13-2B-5 B of the City Code.
   D.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee established by
resolution shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(2007 Code § 44-51)
13-2B-2: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; INSPECTION; COMPLETION OF INSTALLATION:
If the city manager, after an inspection of the premises and plans, shall find:
   A.   That the location and design is in accordance with the regulations of
the Iowa department of natural resources and the city;
   B.   That the disposal system is adequate for the premises to be served;
   C.   That it is not likely to create a nuisance to abutting property; and
   D.   That there is no public sewer within two hundred feet (200') of the
property line; then the city manager shall issue a permit therefor. The permit
for a private on site sewage treatment and disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city
manager. The city manager shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction; and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
city manager when the work is ready to commence, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within twenty four (24)
hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, of the receipt of notice
by the city manager. (2007 Code § 44-52)
13-2B-3: CONNECTIONS TO PRIVATE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this article, no private sewage
treatment and disposal system shall be connected to any house drainage system
except in accordance with the provisions of this code.
   B.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private on site sewage
treatment and disposal system shall conform with all requirements of state law
and regulations.
   C.   No requirement of this article shall supersede any additional
requirements that may be imposed by the city manager. (2007 Code § 44-53)
13-2B-4: PRIVATE DISPOSAL FACILITIES NOT EXPENSE TO CITY:
The owner shall operate and maintain the private on site sewage treatment and
disposal system in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(2007 Code § 44-54)
13-2B-5: ABANDONMENT OF PRIVATE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM:
   A.   Abandonment Upon Availability Of Public Sewer: When a public sewer is
constructed within two hundred feet (200') of the property line, the building
sewer shall be connected to said sewer in accordance with city standards
established by the city manager and within three hundred sixty five (365) days
from date of written notification by the city manager, unless the city manager
for good cause grants an extension from such three hundred sixty five (365) day
period, which extension shall not be in excess of the time provided in
subsection B of this section, and the private on site sewage treatment and
disposal system abandoned in accordance with subsection B of this section.
However, the property shall not be required to connect to the public sewer if
construction plans for the private on site sewage treatment and disposal system
are available, the system meets the provisions of state laws and regulations
and the system received a construction permit from the city manager prior to
installation. If the city manager cannot determine that the system is in
compliance with state laws and regulations, connection shall be made to the
sanitary sewer in accordance with city standards established by the city
manager.
   B.   Time Limit For Operation: Notwithstanding the foregoing, no private on
site sewage treatment and disposal system shall be permitted to operate for
more than fifteen (15) years, unless otherwise determined by the city manager
pursuant to standards adopted by the city manager. At any time the city manager
determines the system is no longer adequate, connection to the sanitary sewer
shall be made. (2007 Code § 44-55)
13-2B-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION AND TESTING:
   A.   Consent Of Owner Or Occupant: The city manager shall have the right,
during reasonable hours and upon the consent of the occupant, to enter any
building or premises in the discharge of the city manager's official duties to
make any inspection, reinspection or test that is reasonably necessary to
protect health, safety and welfare. Where the building or premises is
unoccupied, the consent of the owner shall be obtained.
   B.   Immediate Entry To Inspect For Hazardous Condition: If the city manager
has reasonable cause to believe that any private on site sewage treatment and
disposal system constitutes a hazard to persons or property, the city manager
shall have the right to enter immediately and inspect such system and may use
any reasonable means required to effect such entry and make such inspection,
whether such property be occupied or unoccupied, and whether or not permission
to inspect has been obtained. (2007 Code § 44-56)
13-2B-7: APPEALS FROM ORDERS OF CITY MANAGER:
Any person aggrieved by any order made by the city manager shall have the right
to appeal to the city council by filing a written notice of such appeal with
the city clerk within ten (10) days of the date of such order. If such a notice
is filed, the city council shall set a time and place for a hearing. The notice
of the hearing shall be sent by the city clerk by ordinary mail. The city
council may affirm, reverse or modify such order. (2007 Code § 44-59)
13-2B-8: PRIVATE HAULERS:
   A.   Permit Required; Fee: All private haulers discharging sewage at the
water pollution control plant must secure a permit from the city on July 1 of
each year. Cost of this permit shall be established by resolution.
   B.   Form: All haulers discharging sewage at the wastewater treatment plant
must sign a form prior to discharging that product, which states the origin and
type of product, and that the product does not contain any substance prohibited
by, and conforms to, the provisions of section
13-2A-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Domestic Type Sewage: Only domestic type sewage may be discharged at
the wastewater treatment plant, unless approval has been given by the city
manager for other types of sewage.
   D.   Industrial Sewage: No industrial sewage may be discharged at the
wastewater treatment plant without prior agreement with the city manager.
   E.   Municipal Sludge Other Than From City: No municipal sludge or sewage,
other than from the city of Dubuque system, may be discharged at the wastewater
treatment plant without prior agreement with the city manager.
   F.   Fee Per Load: The rate to be charged for domestic sewage discharged at
the wastewater plant by private haulers from residences within the corporate
limits of the city shall be established by resolution. The rate of domestic
sewage by private haulers from residences outside the corporate limits of the
city shall be established by resolution. (2007 Code § 44-71)
ARTICLE C. RATES
SECTION:
13-2C-1: Purpose
13-2C-2: Definitions
13-2C-3: Rates Established
13-2C-4: Areas Not Served By Public System
13-2C-5: Lien For Failure To Pay
13-2C-6: Cost Of Collection
13-2C-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the City to
levy and collect just and equitable charges, rates or rentals upon all lots,
parcels of real estate and buildings that are connected directly or indirectly
with the sanitary sewage system of the City, the proceeds of such charges or
rentals so derived to be used for the purpose of constructing, operating,
maintaining and repairing such sewage treatment plant. (2007 Code § 44-82)
13-2C-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, as used in this article, shall be deemed to mean
and be construed as follows:
CONTRIBUTOR: Any person responsible for the production of domestic, commercial
or industrial waste which is directly or indirectly discharged into the City's
sanitary sewer system.
SEWAGE SERVICE CHARGE: Any and all rates, charges, fees or rentals levied
against and payable by the contributors, including special contracts or
agreements which have been or may be negotiated by and between the City,
commercial establishments, industries, manufacturing plants or corporations for
the purpose of collecting rates, charges, fees or rentals.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any and all units of the Municipal sewage treatment
system owned and operated by the City, including the interceptor sewer system,
the pumping stations delivering sewage to the plant and the outfall sewer
system.
WATER DEPARTMENT: The City Water Department. (2007 Code § 44-81)
13-2C-3: RATES ESTABLISHED:
Contributors whose property lies within the corporate limits of the city,
except as otherwise provided in this article, shall pay to the city at the same
time payment for water services is made, a sewer service charge computed on
water consumption on the following rates:
   A.   Basic Charges:
      1.   The sewer rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of water
used on or in the property or premises. For all customers utilizing sewer
service, bills will be issued on estimated consumption. For estimated billings,
either on alternate months, or when a reading on a water meter is not
obtainable for any reason, consumption will be predicated on the monthly
average of the past usage for the metered account. For estimated bills issued
for an account in which historical data is not available, billing will be
predicated on the minimum charge and related consumption identified in
subsection C7 of this section for the size of the water meter in service for
the particular account.
      2.   Basic Charge Exception: The city manager shall establish a policy
for evaluating cases of extreme financial hardship for residential customers
and the city’s ability to make adjustments in the monthly basic charge for
residential customers as determined by the terms and conditions of the policy
and the funds allocated, and available, through the budget process.
   B.   Schedule Of Rates:
 
Rate per each 100 cubic feet $7.44
Rate per each gallon         0.00995
 
   C.   Service Charge:
      1.   When a parcel of real estate, property or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other approved waste, either
directly or indirectly into the City's sanitary sewer system, is not a user of
water supplied by the City Water Division and the water used thereon or therein
is not acceptable to the City, the amount of water used shall be determined by
the City in such a manner as the City Manager may elect to establish the rate
of charge as provided in this article, or the owner or other interested parties
at their expense, may install and maintain a meter acceptable to the City for
said purposes.
      2.   When a parcel of real estate, property or building discharging
sanitary sewerage, industrial wastes, water or other approved waste, either
directly or indirectly into the City's sanitary sewer system, is a user of
water supplied by the City Water Division and in addition uses water from
another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured by a water
meter not acceptable to the City, the amount of water used shall be determined
by the City in such a manner as the City Manager may elect in order to
establish the rate of charge as provided in this article, or the owner or other
interested parties at their expense may install and maintain a meter acceptable
to the City for said purposes.
      3.   When a parcel of real estate, property or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other approved waste, either
directly or indirectly into the City's sanitary sewer system, is not a user of
water supplied by the City Water Division, the amount of sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes, water or other approved waste discharged into the sanitary
sewer system shall be determined by the City in such a manner as the City
Manager may elect in order to establish the rate of charge as provided in this
article, or the owner or other interested parties at their expense, may install
and maintain a sewage meter acceptable to the City for said purposes.
      4.   The City Council may, in its discretion, when applicable, permit
connection to the City sanitary sewer system of properties located outside the
corporate limits upon such terms and conditions as it may establish; provided,
however, that such terms shall not be more favorable to such property than
rates herein established for City users.
      5.   In order that the rates and charges may be modestly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered, the City shall have the right to base its
charges not only on volume, but also on the strength and content of the sewage
and wastes of the user. The City shall have the right to measure and determine
the strength and content of all sewage and wastes discharged either directly or
indirectly into the City's sanitary sewer system, in such manner and by such
methods as it may deem practicable in the light of the conditions and
circumstances of the case in order to determine the proper charge. Extra
charges will be applicable and negotiated with users on an individual account
basis when concentration of the sewage exceeds three hundred milligrams per
liter (300 mg/L) of biochemical oxygen demand, three hundred fifty milligrams
per liter (350 mg/L) of suspended solids or two percent (2%) or more of the
flow rate into the sewage treatment plant.
      6.   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant and tenants
occupying the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owners, but such billings shall in no way relieve the owner from liability in
the event payment is not made as required in this article.
      7.   Where the quantity of water consumed is such that the minimum of
service is charged, the minimum sewer service charge, according to the size of
the meter, shall be as follows:
 
Meter Size (Inches) Minimum Charge Allowance    Allowance
                                   (Cubic Feet) (Gallons)
5/8                 $14.90         200          1,496
3/4                 $37.23         500          3,740
1 or larger         $59.58         800          5,984
 
(2007 Code § 44-83; amd. Ord. 10-17, 3-7-2017, eff. 7-1-2017; amd. Ord. 17-19,
3-7-2019, eff. 7-1-2019; Ord. 16-20, 4-23-2020; Ord. 24-20, 6-1-2020; Ord. 8-
21, 3-24-2021, eff. 7-1-2021; Ord. 12-22, eff. 7-1-2022; Ord. 13-23, 3-23-2023,
eff. 7-1-2023; Ord. 12-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024; Ord. 12-25, 4-28-2025,
eff. 7-1-2025)
13-2C-4: AREAS NOT SERVED BY PUBLIC SYSTEM:
The rates, service charges, rentals or fees as provided in this article shall
become effective at the time sewage from the contributors is first directed to
the sanitary sewer system. At the time sanitary sewers are constructed in areas
not now served by a sanitary sewer system, contributors shall be granted a
reasonable time to make connection to the sewer. The effective date of the
sewage service charge and the reasonable time to connect to the sanitary sewer
system will be determined by the City Manager. (2007 Code § 44-84)
13-2C-5: LIEN FOR FAILURE TO PAY:
   A.   Lien For Delinquent Rates And Charges: The city shall have a lien upon
the real property served by the sanitary system for all delinquent rates and
charges. Bills for sewage charges shall be delinquent when the same are unpaid
for a period of twenty five (25) days following the billing date, and if not
paid, a penalty of five percent (5%) shall be added to the sewage bill.
   B.   Certification Of Charges: It is the duty of the city treasurer to
certify the actual rates and charges plus the costs of administration to the
county treasurer as provided in section
13-1C-4 of this title, and all such costs will then constitute a lien against
said property and be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes on said property. (Ord. 30-08, 5-5-2008; amd. Ord. 54-12, 9-17-2012; Ord.
3-20, 1-21-2020)
13-2C-6: COST OF COLLECTION:
The actual cost of collecting and accounting for all sewer rentals or charges
shall be a part of the cost of operating the sewage treatment plant. The cost
shall be paid from the sewage funds to the collection agent upon the city
manager's certificate certifying to the amount. (2007 Code § 44-87)
ARTICLE D. INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT PROGRAM
SECTION:
13-2D-1: Purpose And Policy
13-2D-2: Definitions
13-2D-3: Abbreviations
13-2D-4: General Discharge Prohibitions
13-2D-5: Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards
13-2D-6: Specific Pollutant Limitations
13-2D-7: Excessive Discharge
13-2D-8: Accidental Discharge/Slug Control Plan
13-2D-9: Notice Of Potential Problems Including Slug Loadings
13-2D-10: Rates And Charges
13-2D-11: Administration; Permit Requirements; Regulations
13-2D-12: Enforcement; Violation Notice; Hearing
13-2D-13: Penalty; Costs
13-2D-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: This article sets forth uniform requirements
for direct and indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and
treatment system for the city, and enables the city to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws required by the clean water act of 1977
(public law 95-217) general pretreatment regulations (40 CFR part 403). When in
conflict with provisions of this chapter the provisions of this article shall
supersede.
   B.   Objectives: The objectives of this article are to:
      1.   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city's wastewater
system which will interfere with the operation of the system or contaminate the
resulting sludges;
      2.   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city's wastewater
system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated, into receiving
waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      3.   Improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      4.   Provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the city's
wastewater system. This article provides for the regulation of direct and
indirect contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance
of permits to certain nondomestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting, assumes that existing customers' capacity
will not be preempted, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein. This
article shall apply to the city of Dubuque, and to persons outside the
corporate boundaries of the city who are, by contract or agreement with the
city, users of the city water pollution control plant. Except as otherwise
provided herein, the city manager shall administer, implement and enforce the
provisions of this article. (2007 Code § 44-101)
13-2D-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this article, shall have meanings hereinafter designated:
ACT OR THE ACT: The federal water pollution control act, also known as the
clean water act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
APPROVAL AUTHORITY: The director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program.
APPROVED POTW PRETREATMENT PROGRAM: A program administered by a POTW that meets
the criteria established in regulation 403.8 and 403.9 which has been approved
by a regional administrator or state director in accordance with 403.11 of the
act.
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER: An authorized representative of
an industrial user may be: a principal executive officer of at least the level
of vice president, if the industrial user is a corporation; a general partner
or proprietor, if the industrial user is a partnership or proprietorship,
respectively; a duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above, if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the discharge originates.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD(c)): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
measured at five (5) days, twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in terms of
concentration (milligrams per liter (mg/l)).
BUILDING SEWER: A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user into
the city's wastewater system.
BYPASS: The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user's treatment facility.
CITY: The city of Dubuque, Iowa, or the city council of the city of Dubuque,
Iowa.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Dubuque, Iowa, or designee.
CONTROL AUTHORITY: Shall refer to the city manager of the city of Dubuque,
Iowa.
COOLING WATER: The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
DIRECT DISCHARGE: The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
into the waters of the state of Iowa.
DIRECTOR: The chief administrative officer of a state or interstate water
pollution control agency with an NPDES permit program approved pursuant to
section 402(b) of the act and an approved state pretreatment program.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA): The U.S. environmental protection
agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
FATS, OILS, AND GREASES (FOG): Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/
or plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules.
These substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 CFR 136, as may be amended from time to time. A wide range of
food preparation activities including, but not limited to, the following, can
generate fats, oils and grease: cooking by frying, baking, grilling, sauteing,
rotisserie cooking, broiling, boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting, poaching,
infrared heating, searing, barbecuing or other food preparation activities that
produce a food product in or on receptacles that require washing and/or
cleaning. All are sometimes referred to herein as "grease", "greases", or
"FOG".
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT (FE): A place where food is prepared and intended for
individual portion service, whether consumption occurs on or off the premises.
These facilities include, but are not limited to, restaurants, food
manufacturers, food processors, commercial kitchens, hospitals, schools, hotels
and motels, bakeries, caterers, schools, religious institutions, correctional
facilities, prisons, nursing homes, care facilities, and any other facility
preparing, serving or otherwise making any foodstuff available for consumption.
GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a onetime basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
HOLDING TANK WASTE: Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum pump trucks.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE: The discharge or the introduction of pollutants from any
nondomestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c), or (d), of the act (33
USC 1317), into the POTW (including holding tanks wastes discharged into the
system).
INDUSTRIAL USER: A source of indirect discharge.
INTERFERENCE: A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
   A.   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations,
or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
   B.   Therefore, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's
NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
hereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): section 405 of the
clean water act, the solid waste disposal act (SWDA) (including title II, more
commonly referred to as the resource conservation and recovery act (RCRA)), and
including state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared (pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA), the clean air act, the toxic
substances control act, and the marine protection, research and sanctuaries
act.
NPDES STATE: A state or interstate water pollution control agency with an NPDES
permit program approved pursuant to section 402(b) of the act.
NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM OR NPDES PERMIT: A permit
issued pursuant to section 402 of the act (33 USC 1342).
NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD, PRETREATMENT STANDARD, OR STANDARD: Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with section 307(b) and (c) of the act, which applies to industrial
users. This term includes general and specific prohibitions found in 40 CFR
403.5.
NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD OR PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD: Any
regulation developed under the authority of section 307(b) of the act and 40
CFR section 403.5.
NEW SOURCE: A. Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under
section 307(c) of the act which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section; provided,
that:
      1.   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located; or
      2.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      3.   The production of wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent factors, such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
   B.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria of
subsection A2 or A3 of this definition, but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds
to existing process or production equipment. Construction of a "new source" as
defined under this definition has commenced if the owner or operator has begun,
or caused to begin as part of a continuous on site construction program: 1) any
placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or 2)
significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation, or removal of
existing buildings, structures or facilities which is necessary for the
placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment or
entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities or
equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable
time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified
without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering, and
design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
POTW TREATMENT PLANT: That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment of
municipal sewage and industrial waste.
PASS-THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in magnitude or duration of a
violation).
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust estate, governmental entity, or any
other legal entity or their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The
masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall include the
plural where indicated by context.
pH: The logarithm (base-10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen
ions.
POLLUTANT: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
POLLUTION: The manmade or man induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological and radiological integrity of the water.
PRETREATMENT OR TREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, or the
alteration of the nature of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the
alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less
harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes, process changes or by other means,
except as prohibited by 40 CFR section 403.6(d).
PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related to
pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial user.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A treatment works which is owned by a
municipality as defined by section 502(4) of the clean water act. This
definition includes any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid
nature. It also includes all sewers, pipes, and other conveyances that convey
wastewater to a POTW treatment plant. The term also means the municipality as
defined in section 502(4) of the act, which has jurisdiction over the indirect
discharges to and the discharges from such treatment works. For purposes of
this article, the terms "sanitary sewer system" and "POTW" may be used
interchangeably.
REGIONAL ADMINISTRATOR: The appropriate EPA regional administrator.
SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE: Substantial physical damage to property, damage to the
treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or substantial and
permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur
in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic loss
caused by delays in production.
SHALL; MAY: Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER: A. All industrial users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N;
   B.   Has a discharge flow of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons or more
per average workday of process wastewater; or
   C.   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%) or
more of the average dry weather hydraulic flow or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant; or
   D.   Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement (in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6)).
SLUG: A contribution that has a flow rate or contains concentrations or
qualities of pollutants that exceed for any time period longer than fifteen
(15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty four (24) hour
concentration, quantities or flow during normal operation.
STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC): A classification pursuant to the
standard industrial classification manual issued by the executive office of the
president, office of management and budget, 1972.
STATE: State of Iowa.
STORMWATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or
is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable by
laboratory filtering.
TOXIC POLLUTANT: Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in
regulations promulgated by the administrator of the environmental protection
agency under the provision of CWA 307(a) or other acts.
USER: Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the city's POTW.
WASTEWATER: The liquid and water carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed or permitted to
enter the POTW.
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT: As set forth in subsection 13-2D-11B of this
article.
WATERS OF THE STATE: All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof. (2007 Code § 44-101;
amd. Ord. 42-14, 7-7-2014)
13-2D-3: ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
BOD(c) Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR    Code of federal regulations
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    U.S. environmental protection agency
l      Liter
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
SIC    Standard industrial classification
SWDA   Solid waste disposal act, 42 USC 6901 et seq.
TSS    Total suspended solids
USC    United States Code
 
(2007 Code § 44-101)
13-2D-4: GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Substances: No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will
interfere with the operation or performance of the POTW. These general
prohibitions apply to all such users of a POTW whether or not the user is
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards. A user may not
contribute the following substances to the POTW:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW and/
or the collection system, including, but not limited to, waste streams with a
closed cup flashpoint of less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F)
or sixty degrees Celsius (60°C) using test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
At no time shall two (2) successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at
the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the system) be more
than five percent (5%) nor any single reading over ten percent (10%) of the
lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but are
not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers,
alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates,
carbides, hydrides, and sulfides.
      2.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through.
      3.   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstructions to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater
than one inch (1") in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure,
bone, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood, plastics,
tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, mud, or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
      4.   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.5 or greater than 12.0.
      5.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singularly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constituting a hazard to
humans or animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW,
or to exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. A
toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant identified
pursuant to section 307(a) of the act.
      6.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW or collection system in a quantity that may cause acute
worker health and safety problems.
      7.   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged into the POTW cause the POTW to be in
noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations
developed under section 405 of the act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations
affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the SWDA, the clean air
act, the toxic substances control act, or state criteria applicable to the
sludge management method being used.
      8.   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit
or the receiving water quality standards.
      9.   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      10.   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds
forty degrees Celsius (40°C) (104°F).
      11.   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD(c),
etc.) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause interference.
      12.   Any trucked or hauled pollutants without prior approval of the City
Manager and except at discharge points designated by the City Manager. Any
trucked or hauled pollutants to any industrial pretreatment facility without
prior approval of the City Manager.
      13.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by applicable
State or Federal regulations.
      14.   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
   B.   Determination Of Prohibited Contributions; City Action: When the City
Manager determines that a user(s) is contributing to the POTW any of the above
enumerated substances in such amounts as to interfere with the operation of the
POTW, the City Manager shall:
      1.   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the contribution to the POTW;
and
      2.   Develop effluent limitation(s) for such user(s) to correct the
interference with the POTW.
      3.   Take appropriate enforcement action as proscribed in section
13-2D-12 of this article. (2007 Code § 44-102)
13-2D-5: FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Application Of Standards: Upon the promulgation of the Federal
categorical pretreatment standards for a particular industrial subcategory, the
Federal standard, if more stringent than limitations imposed under this article
for sources in that subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations
imposed under this article. The national categorical pretreatment standards,
located in 40 CFR chapter I, subpart N, parts 405 through 471, are hereby
incorporated into this article. The City Manager shall notify all affected
users of the applicable reporting requirements under 40 CFR, section 403.12.
   B.   Modification Of Standards: Where the City's wastewater treatment
facility achieves consistent removal of pollutants limited by Federal
pretreatment standards, the City may apply to the approval authority for
modification of specific limits in the Federal pretreatment standard.
"Consistent removal" shall mean reduction in the amount of a pollutant or
alteration of the nature of the pollutant by the POTW to a less toxic or
harmless state which is achieved by the POTW in ninety five percent (95%) of
the samples taken when measured according to the procedures set forth in 40
CFR, section 403.7(c)(2). The City may then modify pollutant discharge limits
in the Federal pretreatment standards if the requirements contained in 40 CFR,
section 403.7 are fulfilled and prior approval from the approval authority is
obtained. (2007 Code § 44-102)
13-2D-6: SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS:
No user(s) shall discharge wastewater, either singularly or in combination with
other user(s), concentrations of pollutants which shall exceed the following
limitations as measured at the POTW treatment plant:
Arsenic            0.04 mg/L
Cadmium            0.01 mg/L
Chromium (total)   0.70 mg/L
Copper             0.20 mg/L
Cyanide            0.08 mg/L
Iron               5.00 mg/L
Lead               0.20 mg/L
Mercury            0.01 mg/L
Nickel             0.10 mg/L
Oil and grease     100 mg/L
Phenolic compounds 2.50 mg/L
Silver             0.10 mg/L
Toluene            500 mg/L
Zinc               0.50 mg/L
 
(Ord. 28-18, 8-6-2018)
13-2D-7: EXCESSIVE DISCHARGE:
No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt to
dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the Federal categorical
pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant specific limitation developed
by the State or City. (2007 Code § 44-102)
13-2D-8: ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLAN:
   A.   Protection From Accidental Discharges; City Approval Required: Each
user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials
or other substances regulated by this article. Facilities to prevent accidental
discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the
owner's or user's cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and
operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the city
for review, and shall be approved by the city manager before construction of
the facility. All existing users shall complete such a plan by July 1, 1983. No
user who commences contribution to the POTW after the effective date hereof
shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental
discharge procedures have been approved by the city. Review and approval of
such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from
the responsibility to modify the user's facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this article.
   B.   Notice Of Incident; Corrective Action: In the case of an accidental
discharge, it shall be the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone
and notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions
pursued. Within five (5) days following an accidental discharge, the user shall
submit to the city manager a detailed written report describing the cause of
the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar
future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other
liability which may be imposed by this article or other applicable law.
   C.   Control Plan Requirements: At least once every two (2) years, the city
shall evaluate whether each significant user needs to develop an accidental
discharge/slug control plan. Any industrial user required to develop and
implement an accidental discharge/control slug plan shall submit a plan which
addresses, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      2.   Description of stored chemicals;
      3.   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental or
slug discharge. Such notification must also be given for any discharge which
would violate any of the prohibited discharges of this article; and
      4.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, training,
building of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic
organic pollutant (including solvents), and/or measures and equipment for
emergency response.
   D.   Notice To Employees Of Emergency Notification Procedure: A notice shall
be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or other prominent place
advising employees whom to call in the event of an accidental discharge.
Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or suffer such an
accidental discharge to occur are advised of the emergency notification
procedure. (2007 Code § 44-102)
13-2D-9: NOTICE OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS INCLUDING SLUG LOADINGS:
All categorical and noncategorical industrial users shall notify the POTW
immediately of all discharges that could cause problems to the POTW, including
any slug loadings, as defined in 403.5(b) of the act, by the industrial user.
(2007 Code § 44-102)
13-2D-10: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to provide for the
collection of rates and charges to produce gross revenues at least sufficient
to pay the expenses of operation and maintenance of the City’s sanitary sewer
system and POTW. The applicable rates and charges shall be collected as
provided in the Schedule of Rates and Charges established in this section.
   B.   Description of Rates and Charges:
      1.   Types of Rates and Charges: The city shall adopt rates and charges
for the administration of this program which may include:
         a.   Rates or other charges for the recovery of costs of setting up
and operating the industrial pretreatment program.
         b.   Rates or other charges for monitoring, inspections, and
surveillance procedures.
         c.   Rates or other charges relating to accidental discharge
procedures. Note that certain discharges may constitute environmental
violations and be subject to municipal infractions in addition to rates and
charges for the recovery of costs.
         d.   Rates or other charges for permit applications and renewals.
         e.   Rates or other charges for filing appeals.
         f.   Rates or other charges for the consistent removal (by the POTW)
of pollutants otherwise subject to federal pretreatment standards.
         g.   Other rates or charges adopted from time to time as the city may
deem necessary to carry out the requirements contained herein.
      These rates and charges relate solely to the matters covered by this
article and are separate from all other fees chargeable by the city.
      2.   Rate Schedule: On or after September 13, 2023, the rates and charges
assessed to each Significant Industrial User of the system shall include all of
the following:
         a.   A general service charge with the following two components:
            1.   A fixed cost facilities and administration charge in the
amount of: $125.00/month; and
            2.   A volumetric charge in the amount of $0.14/Ccf of flow
discharged into the POTW.
         b.   A surveillance monitoring and sample charge in the amount of
three dollars ($3.00) for each sample collected.
         c.   A laboratory testing charge in an amount equal to actual expenses
incurred for each parameter tested in-house; and actual expenses incurred plus
ten percent (10%) for each parameter tested by outside laboratories.
         d.   A compliance charge for investigating incidents of program
noncompliance or accidental spills in an amount equal to the amount of time
actually expended multiplied by fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour.
         e.   A wastewater discharge permit application fee in the amount of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each wastewater discharge permit.
         f.   A wastewater discharge permit renewal charge in the amount of
fifty dollars ($50.00) per permit. A late fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per month shall be assessed for each month past the due date of permit renewal.
         g.   An appeal filing fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall
be assessed at the time of appeal.
         h.   Any person who discharges toxic substances or effluent into the
POTW which exceed discharge limitations shall be assessed a charge equal to the
amount of any fine, fee or penalty imposed upon the city by any federal or
state agency plus any applicable municipal infractions.
         i.   A special treatment charge for the consistent removal (by the
POTW) of pollutants otherwise subject to federal pretreatment standards as
established in an agreement negotiated between the city and the wastewater
discharge permit applicant. (2007 Code § 44-103; amd. Ord. 38-23, 8-21-2023)
13-2D-11: ADMINISTRATION; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; REGULATIONS:
   A.   Wastewater Dischargers: It shall be unlawful for any significant
industrial user to discharge without a permit issued by the city to any natural
outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, and/
or to the POTW any wastewater except as authorized by the city manager in
accordance with the provisions of this article.
   B.   Wastewater Discharge Permits:
      1.   All significant industrial users proposing to connect to or
contribute to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW. All existing significant industrial
users connected to or contributing to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater
discharge permit within one hundred eighty (180) consecutive calendar days
after the effective date hereof.
      2.   Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall
complete and file with the city manager an application in the form prescribed
by the city and accompanied by a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). Existing
users shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within ninety (90)
consecutive days after the effective date hereof, and proposed new users shall
apply at least ninety (90) consecutive calendar days prior to connecting to or
contributing to the POTW. In support of the application, the user shall submit,
in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
         a.   Name, address and location (if different from the mailing
address).
         b.   SIC number according to the standard industrial classification
manual, bureau of the budget, 1972, as amended.
         c.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics, including, but not
limited to, those mentioned in sections
13-2D-4 through
13-2D-9 of this article. Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance
with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to section 304 of the act and
contained in 40 CFR, part 136, as amended.
         d.   Time and duration of contribution.
         e.   Average daily and fifteen (15) minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any.
         f.   Site plans and details to show all sewers, sewer connections and
appurtenances by size, location and elevation.
         g.   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged.
         h.   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by any city, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment
is required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards.
         i.   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such pretreatment. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
            (1)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract,
commencing construction, etc.);
            (2)   The total time shall not exceed two and one-half (21/2)
years; and
            (3)   No later than fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days
following each date in the schedule and the final day of compliance, the user
shall submit a written progress report to the city manager including, as a
minimum, whether or not the user complied with the increment of progress to be
met on such date, and if not, the date on which the user expects to comply with
this increment of progress, the reason for delay and the steps being taken by
the user to return construction to the schedule established.
         j.   Number of employees, and hours of operation of plant and proposed
or actual hours of operation of the pretreatment system.
         k.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the city to
evaluate the permit application and to fulfill the requirements for baseline
monitoring reporting as given in 40 CFR 403.12(b). The city will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information. After
evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the city manager may issue a
wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions provided therein.
   C.   Permit Modifications: Within ninety (90) consecutive calendar days of
the promulgation of a national categorical pretreatment standard, the
wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such standards shall be revised
to require compliance with such standard within the time frame prescribed by
such standard. Where a user, subject to a national categorical pretreatment
standard, has not previously submitted an application for a wastewater
discharge permit as required by this section, the user shall apply for a
wastewater discharge permit within ninety (90) consecutive calendar days after
the promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
In addition, the user with an existing wastewater discharge permit shall submit
to the city manager within ninety (90) consecutive calendar days after the
promulgation of an applicable national categorical pretreatment standard the
information required by subsections B2h and B2i of this section.
   D.   Permit Conditions: Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this article and all other applicable regulations,
user charges and fees established by the city. Permits may contain the
following:
      1.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged into the POTW;
      2.   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      3.   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      4.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      5.   Compliance schedule;
      6.   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports (see subsection G of this section);
      7.   Requirements for notification of the city for any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the POTW;
      8.   Requirements for notification of the city for slug discharges;
      9.   If sampling by an industrial user indicates a violation, the user
must notify the city within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user must also resample and submit results of this sampling to
the city within thirty (30) days; and
      10.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city manager to
ensure compliance with this article.
   E.   Permit Duration: Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed three (3) years. A permit may be issued for a period less than
one year or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply
for permit reissuance a minimum of ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of
the user's existing permit. The terms and conditions of the permit may be
subject to modification by the city during the term of the permit as
limitations or requirements as identified in sections
13-2D-4 through
13-2D-9 of this article are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall
be informed of any proposed changes in his permit at least sixty (60) days
prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the
permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   F.   Permit Transfer: Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued to a
specific user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not
be reassigned, transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises
or new or changed operation without the approval of the city.
   G.   Reporting Requirements For Permittee Compliance Date Report:
      1.   Nature And Concentration Of Pollutants: Within ninety (90) days
following the date for final compliance with applicable pretreatment standards
or, in the case of a new source, following commencement of the introduction of
wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to pretreatment standards and
requirements shall submit to the city manager a report indicating the nature
and concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process
which are limited by pretreatment standards and requirements and the average
and maximum daily flow for these process units in the user facility which are
limited by such pretreatment standards or requirements.
      2.   Baseline Monitoring Report: The city manager may allow the
submission of a baseline monitoring report which utilizes only historical data
so long as the data provides information sufficient to determine the need for
industrial pretreatment measures. This baseline monitoring report shall
indicate the time, date, and place of sampling, and methods of analysis, and
shall certify that such sampling and analysis is representative of normal work
cycles and expected pollutant discharges to the POTW.
      3.   Content Of Reports: These reports shall state whether the applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis, and
if not, what additional operation and maintenance and/or pretreatment is
necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements. Reports for compliance and/or baseline monitoring
shall be signed by an authorized representative of the industrial user and
certified by a qualified professional.
      4.   Periodic Compliance Reports:
         a.   Any significant industrial user, including significant
noncategorical users, subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance
date of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the city manager
during the months of January and July, unless required more frequently in the
pretreatment standard or by the city manager, a semiannual report indicating
the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by
such pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
At the discretion of the city manager and in consideration of such factors as
local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, etc., the city manager
may agree to alter the months during which the above reports are to be
submitted. All reports for periodic compliance must be signed by an authorized
representative of the industrial user and certified by a qualified
professional.
         b.   The city manager may impose mass limitations on users which are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in
other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such
cases, the report required by this section shall include the mass of pollutants
regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user. These reports
shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the discharge, including
the flow and the nature and concentration, or production and mass, where
requested by the city manager, of pollutants contained therein which are
limited by the applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of monitoring
shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment standard. All analysis and
sampling shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the
administrator pursuant to section 304(g) of the act and contained in 40 CFR,
part 136 and amendments thereto or with any other test procedures approved by
the administrator. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques approved by the administrator. Where 40 CFR, part 136 does not
include a sampling or analytical technique for the pollutant in question,
sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the procedures set
forth in the EPA publication, sampling and analytical procedures for screening
of industrial effluents for priority pollutants, April 1977, and amendments
thereto, or with any other sampling and analytical procedures approved by the
administrator.
   H.   Record Keeping Requirements: Any user subject to reporting requirements
established in this article shall be required to retain for a minimum of three
(3) years, any records of monitoring activities and results and shall make such
records available for inspection and copying by the EPA, approval authority,
and control authority (city manager). This period of retention shall be
extended during the course of any unresolved litigation regarding the
industrial user or POTW, or when requested by the EPA or approval authority.
   I.   Monitoring Facilities:
      1.   The city shall require to be provided and shall operate at the
user's own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and
flow measurement of the user's wastewater discharge. The monitoring facility
will normally be situated on the user's premises, but the city may, when such a
location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the
facility to be constructed in the public right of way and located such that it
will not be obstructed.
      2.   There shall be ample room in such sampling manhole or facility to
allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility
sampling and measurement equipment shall be operated and maintained by the city
at the full expense of the owner. Sampling and data recovery shall be provided
by the city for ultimate use in determining compliance or noncompliance with
the program.
      3.   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in full accordance with the
requirements of the city manager and all applicable local standards and
specifications. Construction of required monitoring facilities shall be
completed within one hundred eighty (180) consecutive calendar days following
written notification from the city manager.
   J.   Inspection And Sampling:
      1.   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain
whether the purpose of this article is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is discharged
shall allow the city, or their representative, ready access at all reasonable
times to all parts of the premises for the purpose of inspection, sampling,
records examination and copying or in the performance of any of their duties.
The city, state and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user's property
such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling inspection, compliance
monitoring and/or metering operations.
      2.   Where a user has security in force which would require proper
identification and clearance before entry into the premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with the security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, personnel from the city, state and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purpose of performing their specific
responsibilities.
   K.   Pretreatment:
      1.   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this article and shall achieve compliance with all federal
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the city shall be provided, operated and
maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the city manager for
review and shall be acceptable to the city before construction of the facility.
The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the
user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce
an effluent acceptable to the city under the provisions of this article. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user's initiation of
the changes.
      2.   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the city, state and EPA upon request.
   L.   Confidential Information:
      1.   Information and data on a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
      2.   When requested by a person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available immediately
upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to this article, the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, or the
pretreatment program; provided, however, that such portions of the report shall
be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial review or
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other "effluent data" as defined by 40 CFR
part 403 will not be recognized as confidential information and will be
available to the public without restriction.
   M.   Publication Of Industrial Users In Significant Noncompliance: The city
shall publish at least annually, in the largest daily newspaper published in
the municipality, a list of the industrial users which, at any time during the
previous twelve (12) months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements. The term "significant noncompliance"
shall mean:
      1.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined herein as
those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of the wastewater measurements
taken during a six (6) month period exceed the daily maximum limit or average
limit for the same pollutant parameter by any amount;
      2.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined herein as those
in which thirty three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken
for each pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or exceeds
the product of the daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the
applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD(c), TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for
all other pollutants except pH);
      3.   Any other discharge violation that the city believes has caused,
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through
(including endangering the health of city personnel or the general public);
      4.   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or resulted in the city's exercise of its
emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      5.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      6.   Failure to provide, within thirty (30) days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, ninety (90) day
compliance reports, periodic self- monitoring reports, and reports on
compliance with a compliance schedule;
      7.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
      8.   Any other violation or group of violations which the city determines
will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
   N.   Wastewater Survey: When required by the city, all industrial users must
submit information on the nature and characteristics of their wastewater by a
wastewater survey prior to commencing discharge. The city is authorized to
prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require industrial users
to update the survey. Failure to complete this survey shall be reasonable
grounds for terminating service to the industrial user and shall be considered
a violation of this article.
   O.   Report Of Changed Conditions: Each industrial user is required to
promptly notify the city in advance of any planned significant changes to the
industrial user's operation or system which might alter the nature, quality or
volume of its wastewater.
      1.   The city may require the industrial user to submit such information
as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application.
      2.   The city may issue a wastewater permit or modify an existing permit.
      3.   No industrial user shall implement the planned changed condition(s)
until and unless the city has responded to the industrial user's notice.
      4.   For purposes of this requirement, flow increases of ten percent
(10%) or greater, and the discharge of any previously unreported pollutants,
shall be deemed significant.
   P.   Notification Of Discharge Of Hazardous Waste:
      1.   Any industrial user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste
shall notify the POTW, the EPA regional waste management division director, and
the state hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the
POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste
under 40 CFR part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous
waste as set forth in 40 CFR part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the industrial user
discharges more than ten (10) kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the
POTW, the notification shall also contain the following information to the
extent such information is known and readily available to the industrial user:
a) an identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the waste; b)
an estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents contained in
the waste stream discharged during the calendar month; and c) an estimation of
the mass of constituents in the waste stream expected to be discharged during
the following twelve (12) months. All notifications must take place no later
than one hundred eighty (180) days after the discharge commences. Any
notification under this subsection need be submitted only once for each
hazardous waste discharged. The notification requirement in this section does
not apply to pollutants already reported under the self-monitoring
requirements.
      2.   Discharges are exempt from the requirements of subsection P1 of this
section during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than fifteen
(15) kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than
fifteen (15) kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of
any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and
261.33(e), requires a one time notification. Subsequent months during which the
industrial user discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do
not require additional notification.
      3.   In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the
POTW, the EPA regional waste management waste division director, and the state
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within ninety
(90) days of the effective date of such regulations.
      4.   In the case of any notification made under this section, the
industrial user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has
determined to be economically practical. (2007 Code § 44-104)
13-2D-12: ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATION NOTICE; HEARING:
   A.   Harmful Contributions:
      1.   The city may suspend the wastewater treatment service and wastewater
discharge permit when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the city
manager, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or
may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, to the environment, causes or may cause interference to the POTW or
causes or may cause the city to violate any condition of its NPDES permit.
      2.   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop or eliminate
the discharge. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW or endangerment to any individual. The city shall reinstate
the wastewater treatment service and/or wastewater discharge permit upon proof
of elimination of the noncomplying discharge. A detailed written statement
submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful discharge and the
measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the city
manager within fifteen (15) consecutive calendar days of the date of the
occurrence.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: Any user who violates the following conditions of
this article, or applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having
the wastewater discharge permit revoked in accordance with the procedures
established in this article:
      1.   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his discharge;
      2.   Failure of a user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics of his discharge;
      3.   Refusal of reasonable access to a user's premises for the purposes
of inspecting and monitoring; and
      4.   Violation of conditions of the wastewater discharge permit.
   C.   Notification Of Violation: Whenever the city finds that any user has
violated or is violating this article, wastewater discharge permit, or any
prohibition or limitation of requirements contained herein, the city shall
serve upon such user a written notice stating the nature of the violation.
Within ten (10) days of the date of the notice, a plan for the satisfactory
correction thereof shall be submitted to the city manager by the user.
   D.   Show Cause Hearing:
      1.   The city may order any user who causes or allows an unauthorized
discharge to enter the POTW to show cause before the city council why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on
the user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the city
council regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the
proposed enforcement action and directing the user to show cause before the
city council why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The
notice of the hearing shall be served by registered or certified mail (return
receipt requested) at least seven (7) days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of the user.
      2.   The city council may itself conduct the hearing and take the
evidence, or may designate the city manager to:
         a.   Issue in the name of the city council notices of hearing
authorizing the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
         b.   Take the evidence; and
         c.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the city
council for action thereon.
      3.   At any hearing held pursuant to this article, testimony taken shall
be under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will
be made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of a reasonable charge thereof.
      4.   After the city council has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an
order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a
specified time period not to exceed thirty (30) consecutive calendar days, the
sewer service be discontinued unless and until adequate treatment facilities,
devices or other related appurtenances shall have been installed or properly
operated. Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be
issued.
   E.   Legal Action: Whenever a user has violated a pretreatment standard or
requirement or continues to violate the provisions of this article, wastewater
discharge permits or orders issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment
requirement, the city may commence an action for the appropriate legal and/or
equitable relief. (2007 Code § 44-105)
13-2D-13: PENALTY; COSTS:
   A.   Civil Penalties: Any user who is found to have violated an order of the
city council or who wilfully or negligently fails to comply with any provision
of this article, and the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder, shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. Each day on which a
violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct
offense. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the city may recover
reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court recorder fees, and other expenses
of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person found to have
violated this article or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder.
   B.   Falsifying Information: It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly make any false statements, representation or certification in any
application, record, report, plan or other document files required pursuant to
this article, or wastewater discharge permit, or to falsify, tamper with or
knowingly render inaccurate any monitoring device or method required pursuant
to this article.
   C.   Judicial Review: Any person aggrieved by any decision, action or order
under this article may appeal to the district court in and for Dubuque County.
Any such appeal shall be commenced within thirty (30) days subsequent to such
decision, action, or order being rendered. (2007 Code § 44-106)
ARTICLE E. FATS, OILS AND GREASES (FOG) PROGRAM
SECTION:
13-2E-1: Purpose
13-2E-2: Definitions
13-2E-3: Permit
13-2E-4: Application
13-2E-5: Permit Fee
13-2E-6: Fats, Oils And Greases (FOG) Program Developed
13-2E-7: Inspection Fee
13-2E-8: Violation
13-2E-9: Abatement Remedies; Penalties
13-2E-10: Emergency Abatement Procedure
13-2E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to set forth the uniform requirements for users
of the city of Dubuque's publicly owned treatment works (POTW) to capture and
dispose of fats, oils, and greases (FOG) in accordance with all applicable
local, state and federal laws. (Ord. 42-14, 7-7-2014)
13-2E-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article the definitions contained in section
13-2D-2 of this chapter are governing. (Ord. 42-14, 7-7-2014)
13-2E-3: PERMIT:
   A.   All FEs proposing to connect to or contribute to the POTW must obtain a
discharge permit before connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
   B.   New FEs must complete and file with the city manager an application for
a discharge permit prior to issuance of the certificate of occupancy and/or
food establishment license.
   C.   All existing FEs connected to or contributing to the POTW must obtain
and pay for a discharge permit in accordance with the approved program.
   D.   Renewal discharge permit applications are due in accordance with the
approved program. (Ord. 42-14, 7-7-2014)
13-2E-4: APPLICATION:
FEs required to obtain a discharge permit must complete and file with the city
manager an application in the form prescribed by the city. (Ord. 42-14, 7-7-
2014)
13-2E-5: PERMIT FEE:
A permit application under this title must be submitted along with the required
fee, as established by resolution of the city manager. (Ord. 42-14, 7-7-2014)
13-2E-6: FATS, OILS AND GREASES (FOG) PROGRAM DEVELOPED:
The city manager shall develop, with the approval of the city council, a
written FOG program which shall govern the installation, maintenance, repair,
replacement, licensing, enforcement and recordkeeping required for systems
discharging FOG into the POTW. (Ord. 42-14, 7-7-2014)
13-2E-7: INSPECTION FEE:
Routine inspections per the FOG program inspection cycle will incur no
inspection fee. Subsequent inspections which follow a violation will be subject
to additional inspection fees as established per the FOG program. (Ord. 42-14,
7-7-2014)
13-2E-8: VIOLATION:
A failure to comply with the requirements of this article and/or program is
punishable as provided in title 1 of this code. Each day of noncompliance with
this article is a separate offense. (Ord. 42-14, 7-7-2014)
13-2E-9: ABATEMENT REMEDIES; PENALTIES:
   A.   General: When any repair or abatement is deemed necessary by the city
manager the city manager may attempt to procure repair or abatement of the
condition.
   B.   Abatement Described: Abatement includes, but is not limited to,
repairing, installing, removing, cleaning, draining, or securing a system
discharging FOG into the POTW.
   C.   Recovery Of Costs: Whenever a cost to repair or abate a condition in
violation of this article is incurred by the city, the city manager shall
prepare and certify the actual cost, including the expenses of investigating,
inspecting, testing, notification, administration and court costs, to the city
clerk who, in turn, shall certify such cost to the county treasurer, and it
shall then constitute a lien against said property and be collected with and in
the same manner as general taxes on said property. (Ord. 42-14, 7-7-2014)
13-2E-10: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
When the city manager determines that a condition in violation of this article
constitutes an imminent and compelling danger to the health, safety or welfare
of persons or property, the city manager is authorized to abate or cause to be
abated the condition without prior notice to the owner. The costs of such
action may be assessed against the property after notice to the property owner
and hearing as required by law. (Ord. 42-14, 7-7-2014)
CHAPTER 3
GAS MAIN CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
13-3-1: City Authority To Require
13-3-2: Notice To Owners
13-3-3: City Authority To Make Connection
13-3-4: Time Limit For Completion
13-3-1: CITY AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE:
Before any street, highway, avenue, alley or public ground is permanently
improved, the city council, by the passage of a resolution, may require
connections from gas mains to be made by the owners of abutting property to the
curb line of such property, and a notice of such requirements shall be given to
the property owners as herein provided for. (2007 Code § 44-1)
13-3-2: NOTICE TO OWNERS:
As soon as the resolution requiring connections to be made, as provided for in
section
13-3-1 of this chapter, is passed and adopted by the city council, a written
notice shall be served upon all persons owning property along the street,
avenue or alley proposed to be improved, which notice shall order such property
owner to make connections to the curb line with gas mains located in such
streets, and thereupon it shall be the duty of the owners of such property to
comply with such notice. The notice shall prescribe whether or not more than
one connection is required to be made and the description of the lot or parcel
or real estate to which the same is to be made and, in each instance, such
owner shall be advised of the number of connections that are required to be
made. (2007 Code § 44-2)
13-3-3: CITY AUTHORITY TO MAKE CONNECTION:
If a property owner upon whom notice has been served pursuant to section
13-3-2 of this chapter to make the connections as provided for in section
13-3-1 of this chapter should fail or refuse to make such connections within
the time provided for in such notice, then the city council may proceed to have
said connections made upon a contract made and entered into for that purpose,
and the cost of making such connections shall be assessed to the property owner
and shall be collected in the same manner as other special assessments are
collected, except that the whole amount of such assessments shall become due at
once and shall not be payable in installments. (2007 Code § 44-3)
13-3-4: TIME LIMIT FOR COMPLETION:
The resolution passed by the council pursuant to section
13-3-1 of this chapter and the notice that is served upon the property owner
shall prescribe the time within which connections are to be made with such
mains as provided for in such resolution, and this notice shall be final unless
the time is extended by the city council upon application made therefor, or if
conditions should arise which would make it impossible for the property owner
to make the connections required. (2007 Code § 44-4)
CHAPTER 4
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
13-4-1: Definitions
13-4-2: Declaration Of Purpose; Establishment Of District
13-4-3: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
13-4-4: Organization
13-4-5: SFU Rate, Charges; Utility Revenues
13-4-6: Single-Family Residential Property
13-4-7: Nonsingle-Family Residential Property
13-4-8: Nonresidential Property
13-4-9: Appeal Of Impervious Surface Calculation
13-4-10: Rate Determinations; Compliance With Bond Covenants
13-4-11: Billing, Delinquent Accounts And Collection Procedures
13-4-12: Annual Review Of SFU Rate
13-4-13: Expenses Of Collection Of Charges
13-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BONDS: Revenue bonds, notes, loans or any other debt obligations issued or
incurred to finance the costs of construction.
CONTRIBUTOR OR USER: Any person owning, operating, or otherwise responsible for
property within the city which directly or indirectly discharges stormwater or
surface or subsurface waters to any portion of the stormwater management
system, including direct or indirect discharges to the city's stormwater
drainage system, or which is directly or indirectly protected by the city's
flood protection system or stormwater drainage system. The term "contributor"
or "user" means any person responsible for the direct or indirect discharge of
stormwater or surface or subsurface waters to the city's stormwater drainage
system.
COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION: Costs reasonably incurred in connection with providing
capital improvements to the system or any portion thereof, including, but not
limited to, the costs of the following:
   A.   Acquisition of all property, real or personal, and all interests in
connection therewith including all rights of way and easements therefor;
   B.   Physical construction, installation and testing including the costs of
labor, services, materials, supplies and utility services used in connection
therewith;
   C.   Architectural, engineering, legal and other professional services;
   D.   Insurance premiums during construction, to the extent not paid for by a
contractor for construction and installation;
   E.   Any taxes or other charges which become due during construction;
   F.   Expenses incurred by the city or on its behalf with its approval in
seeking to enforce any remedy against any contractor or subcontractor in
respect of any default under a contract relating to construction;
   G.   Principal and interest on any bonds; and
   H.   Miscellaneous expenses incidental thereto.
DEBT SERVICE: The amount of money necessary annually to pay the interest on
outstanding debt and pay the principal of maturing debt.
DEVELOPED PROPERTY: Real property upon which a structure or impervious surface
has been placed or constructed, thus increasing the amount of rainwater or
surface water runoff.
DIRECTOR: The city engineer as director of the stormwater management utility.
DWELLING UNIT: A singular unit or apartment providing complete, independent
living facilities for one or more persons including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
EXEMPT PROPERTY: Public rights of way including public streets, alleys,
sidewalks, and public drainage facilities.
EXTENSION AND REPLACEMENT: Costs of extensions, additions and capital
improvements to or the renewal and replacement of capital assets of or
purchasing and installing new equipment for the system or land acquisition for
the system and any related costs thereto or paying extraordinary maintenance
and repair, including the costs of construction, or any other expenses which
are not costs of operation and maintenance or debt service.
FISCAL YEAR: A twelve (12) month period commencing on July 1, and ending on
June 30 of the succeeding year.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: The system of levees, floodwalls, floodgates, storm
sewer gate wells, and stormwater pumping stations lying adjacent to rivers,
creeks, and streams within the city, including associated control and operating
equipment and facilities whether adjacent to such rivers, creeks, or streams or
remotely located, which are intended to provide flood protection to properties
adjacent to such rivers, creeks, and streams.
IMPERVIOUS AREA: The number of square feet of hard surfaced areas which either
prevent or retard the entry of water into soil mantle, as it entered under
natural conditions as undeveloped property, and/or cause water to run off the
surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow from that present
under natural conditions as undeveloped property, including, but not limited
to, roofs, roof extensions, patios, porches, driveways, sidewalks, concrete/
asphalt pavement, gravel surfaces and athletic courts.
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY: A residential structure designed with two
(2) or more dwelling units to accommodate two (2) or more families or groups of
individuals living separately and not sharing the same living space.
NONOPERATING REVENUES: Refers to revenues derived from activities other than
the basic operations of the stormwater management system, but excluding
interest income on bond proceeds and on contributed capital.
NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY: Any property developed for commercial, industrial,
governmental, or institutional use, including churches, hospitals, and other
eleemosynary institutions and including multiuse properties incorporating
residential uses, but excluding undeveloped property and property used
exclusively for agricultural purposes.
OPERATING BUDGET: The annual operating budget for the stormwater management
utility adopted by the city council for the succeeding fiscal year.
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSE: The current expenses, paid or accrued, of
operation, maintenance and current repair of the system, as calculated in
accordance with sound accounting practice, and includes, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, insurance premiums, administrative expenses
including record keeping, the cost of materials and supplies used for current
operations, and charges for the accumulation of appropriate reserves for
current expenses not annually incurred, but which are such as may reasonably be
expected to be incurred in accordance with sound accounting practice.
REVENUES: All rates, fees, assessments, rentals or other charges or other
income received by the utility, in connection with the management and operation
of the system, including amounts received from the investment or deposit of
monies in any fund or account and any amounts contributed by the city, all as
calculated in accordance with sound accounting practice.
SFU RATE: The dollar value periodically determined and assigned to each SFU as
a charge for stormwater management services, and expressed as $X.XX per SFU.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY: A detached residential structure designed
as a single dwelling unit to accommodate one family or group of individuals
living together and sharing the same living space, but excluding multiclass
(i.e., commercial, residential, industrial, institutional, etc.) properties
which include single-family residential uses.
SINGLE-FAMILY UNIT OR SFU: The average impervious area of a single-family
residential property located within the city as periodically determined and
established as provided in this chapter.
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: The system of publicly or privately owned or
operated rivers, creeks, ditches, drainage channels, pipes, basins, street
gutters, and lakes within the city through which or into which stormwater
runoff, surface water, or subsurface water is conveyed or deposited.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CHARGE: The charge authorized by state law and this
chapter which is established to pay operations and maintenance, extension,
replacement and debt service of the stormwater drainage system.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY OR UTILITY: The enterprise fund utility created
by this chapter to operate, maintain and improve the system and for such other
purposes as stated in this chapter.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: The existing stormwater
management facilities, stormwater drainage system, and flood protection system
of the city and all improvements thereto which by this chapter are constituted
as the property and responsibility of the utility, to be operated as an
enterprise fund to, among other things, conserve water; control discharges and
flows necessitated by rainfall events; and incorporate methods to collect,
convey, store, absorb, inhibit, treat, use or reuse water to prevent or reduce
flooding, overdrainage, environmental degradation and water pollution or
otherwise affect the quality and quantity of discharge from such system.
TOTAL ANNUAL REVENUE REQUIREMENTS: Refers to the total amount of revenue
required in one year to meet all expenditures incurred during that year for the
financing of construction and for the operations and maintenance, including
administration and renewal and replacement funding, of the stormwater drainage
system, including facilities for the collection, transportation, and treatment
of stormwater, and of the flood control protection system, including river
levees and stormwater pumping stations.
UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY: Real property that has no impervious area. (2007 Code §
44-270)
13-4-2: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE; ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT:
   A.   Utility District Established; Purpose: The city council finds,
determines, and declares it to be conducive to the health, welfare, safety and
convenience of the city and its residents that a stormwater management utility
district be established within the city. Consequently, pursuant to Iowa Code
section 384.84(1), a stormwater management utility district, to be known as the
Dubuque stormwater management utility, is established, and it is ordained and
declared that the city shall be and constitute the stormwater management
utility district, and that the utility shall comprise and include elements of
the city's stormwater drainage and flood protection systems which provide for
the collection, treatment and disposal of stormwater, surface water, and ground
water. It is further found, determined, and declared that the elements of the
stormwater management utility are of benefit and provide services to all real
properties within the incorporated city limits, including property not directly
served by the stormwater drainage system, and that such benefits and services
may include, but are not limited to, the provision of adequate systems of
collection, conveyance, detention, treatment and release of stormwater; the
reduction of hazard to property and life resulting from stormwater runoff and
flooding; improvement in general health and welfare through reduction of
undesirable stormwater conditions and flooding; and improvement to the water
quality in the stormwater and surface water system and its receiving waters.
   B.   Levy And Collection Of Charges: It is further determined and declared
to be necessary and conducive to the protection of the public health, welfare,
safety and convenience of the city and its residents that charges be levied
upon and collected from the owners or occupants of all lots, parcels of real
estate, and buildings that discharge stormwater or surface or subsurface
waters, directly or indirectly, to the city stormwater drainage system, and
that the proceeds of such charges so derived be used for the purposes of
operation, maintenance, repair, replacement and debt service for construction
of the stormwater drainage and flood protection improvements comprising the
stormwater management utility. (2007 Code § 44-271)
13-4-3: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The stormwater management utility shall have the following powers, duties, and
responsibilities:
   A.   Prepare ordinances as needed to implement this chapter and forward the
ordinances to the city council for consideration and adoption, and adopt such
regulations and procedures as are required to implement this chapter and carry
out its duties and responsibilities.
   B.   Administer the acquisition, design, construction, maintenance and
operation of the utility system, including capital improvements designated in
the comprehensive drainage plan.
   C.   Administer and enforce this chapter and all ordinances, regulations and
procedures adopted relating to the design, construction, maintenance, operation
and alteration of the utility system, including, but not limited to, the
quantity, quality and/or velocity of the stormwater conveyed thereby.
   D.   Inspect private systems as necessary to determine the compliance of
such systems with this chapter and any ordinances or regulations adopted
pursuant to this chapter.
   E.   Prepare and revise a comprehensive drainage and flood protection plan
for periodic review and adoption by the city council.
   F.   Review plans, approve or deny, inspect and accept extensions to the
stormwater drainage system.
   G.   Establish and enforce regulations to protect and maintain water quality
within the system in compliance with water quality standards established by
state, regional and/or federal agencies as adopted or amended.
   H.   Annually analyze the cost of services and benefits provided, and the
system and structure of fees, charges, fines and other revenues of the utility,
and make recommendations regarding adjustments to such fees, charges, fines and
other revenues.
   I.   Prepare an annual operating budget for the utility and make
recommendations regarding the financing of the cost of extending and replacing
the system. (2007 Code § 44-272)
13-4-4: ORGANIZATION:
The city council shall be the governing body of the stormwater management
utility. The stormwater management utility shall be under the direction,
management and control of the city engineer who shall function as its director.
In that capacity, the director shall supervise the day to day operation of the
stormwater management utility, shall enforce this chapter and the provisions of
all ordinances and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter and shall carry
out the policy directives of the city council acting in its role as governing
body of the stormwater management utility. (2007 Code § 44-273)
13-4-5: SFU RATE, CHARGES; UTILITY REVENUES:
   A.   Square Feet Equivalency: For purposes of this chapter, an SFU shall be
equivalent to two thousand nine hundred seventeen (2,917) square feet of
impervious property.
   B.   Monthly Service Charge: Except as provided in this chapter, every
contributor owning or occupying a single-family residential property, multi-
family residential property, or a nonresidential property, other than exempt
property, shall pay to the city, at the same time payment is made for water
service, sanitary sewer or refuse, a stormwater management charge to be
determined and billed as provided in this chapter. In the event the owner and
the occupant of a particular property are not the same, the liability for
payment of the stormwater management charge attributable to that property shall
be joint and several as to the owner and occupant. The stormwater management
charge shall be a monthly service charge and shall be determined by this
chapter and the SFU rate which is established in this chapter and from time to
time adjusted as provided in this chapter.
   C.   Application And Computation: The stormwater management charges provided
in sections
13-4-6 through
13-4-8 of this chapter shall be applied and computed for each contributor
during the customary billing periods as to all bills mailed by the city
treasurer, and such charges shall thereafter be paid and collected as provided
in this chapter.
   D.   The SFU rate to be applied to residential and nonresidential properties
shall be eleven dollars and three cents ($11.03) per SFU.
   E.   Authority To Adjust Rate: If at any time the director determines that
the SFU rate and/or the budget for the stormwater management utility system
requires adjustment, the director shall report such determination to the city
manager and city council. The city council may at any time adjust the SFU rate
by adoption of an ordinance amending this section, and may at any time adjust
the budget for the stormwater management utility system by adoption of an
appropriate resolution.
   F.   Policy On Expenditure Of Revenues: The city council hereby establishes
a formal policy regarding the expenditure of stormwater management utility
revenues as follows:
      1.   The city manager shall develop and implement a cost accounting
system, capable of accurately recording and segregating charges to the system
by all departments of the city, to include the cost of personnel, machinery,
contract equipment and construction, supplies, depreciation, and any and all
miscellaneous expenses and purchases.
      2.   No revenues generated by the stormwater utility user fee shall be
used for any purpose other than stormwater expenses. (2007 Code § 44-274; amd.
Ord. 16-14, 3-5-2014; Ord. 3-20, 1-21-2020; Ord. 21-20, 6-1-2020; Ord. 10-21,
3-24-2021; Ord. 13-22, 3-29-2022; Ord. 14-23, 3-23-2023, eff. 7-1-2023; Ord.
14-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024; Ord. 14-25, 4-28-2025)
13-4-6: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Percentage Of SFU Rate: The stormwater management charge for a single-
family residential property shall be the following percentage of the SFU rate:
 
Impervious Area Of Property SFU Rate
(Square Feet)
   1,471 or less         50 percent
   1,472 to 4,374        100 percent
   4,375 or more         150 percent
 
   B.   Commencement Of Charge: As to a new single-family residence, the
stormwater management charge attributable to that residence shall commence upon
the earlier of the following:
      1.   The issuance of a permanent water meter.
      2.   If no water meter is issued for that development or if development
has halted, on the date that the director or the director's designee determines
in reasonable judgment that the development is substantially complete or has
been halted for at least three (3) months.
   C.   Charge Exception: The city manager shall establish a policy for
evaluating cases of extreme financial hardship for single-family residential
customers and the city’s ability to make adjustments in the monthly charge for
single-family residential customers as determined by the terms and conditions
of the policy and the funds allocated, and available, through the budget
process.
   D.   Appeal Determination Of Charge: Any owner or occupant of a residential
property aggrieved by the director’s calculation of the stormwater management
charge as provided in this section may appeal such determination to the
director as provided in section
13-4-9 of this chapter. (2007 Code § 44-275; amd. Ord. 21-20, 6-1-2020)
13-4-7: NONSINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY:
   A.   The stormwater management charge for a non-singlefamily residential
property shall be the following percentage of the SFU rate multiplied by the
number of dwelling units on the property:
 
Non-singleFamily Residential Property Classification   SFU Rate
Multi-family (excluding condominiums and mobile homes) 42 percent
Condominium                                            83 percent
Mobile home                                            65 percent
 
   B.   Charge Exception: The city manager shall establish a policy for
evaluating cases of extreme financial hardship for non-single family
residential customers and the city’s ability to make adjustments in the monthly
charge for non-single family residential customers as determined by the terms
and conditions of the policy and the funds allocated, and available, through
the budget process. (2007 Code § 44-276; amd. Ord. 21-20, 6-1-2020)
13-4-8: NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Determination And Commencement Of Charge: The stormwater management
charge for nonresidential property shall be the SFU rate multiplied by the
numerical factor obtained by dividing the total impervious area of a
nonresidential property by the number of square feet in one SFU. The minimum
charge for any nonresidential property shall be equal to one SFU rate. For
newly developed nonresidential property, the charge attributable to that
property shall commence or increase, for additional development to property
which is already developed, upon the issuance of the certificate of occupancy
for such additional development or, if no certificate of occupancy will be
issued for that development or if development has halted, on the date that the
director or the director's designee determines in reasonable judgment that the
development is substantially complete or has been halted for at least three (3)
months.
   B.   Pro Rata Charge: For separately metered occupancy units within a
nonresidential property with joint users of common impervious areas, the
director shall calculate and allocate the pro rata stormwater management charge
among the users.
   C.   Appeal Cost Determination: Any owner or occupant of a nonresidential
property aggrieved by the director's calculation of the stormwater management
charge or allocation among users as provided in this section may appeal such
determination to the director as provided in section
13-4-9 of this chapter.
   D.   Adjustment To Charge: An adjustment to the stormwater charge may be
granted by the director who is hereby authorized to establish procedures and
standards for the adjustment of fees. (2007 Code § 44-278)
13-4-9: APPEAL OF IMPERVIOUS SURFACE CALCULATION:
   A.   Single-Family Residential Property: Any owner or occupant of a single-
family residential property aggrieved by the initial or any subsequent
determination of the stormwater management charge for such property, as
provided in section
13-4-6 of this chapter, may appeal such determination and calculation to the
director, utilizing information supplied by the appealing owner or occupant,
provided such information is verified as correct by a certified professional
engineer or surveyor at the owner's or occupant's expense.
   B.   Nonsingle-Family Residential Property: Any owner or occupant of a
multi-family residential property aggrieved by the initial or any subsequent
calculation of the stormwater management charge, as provided in section
13-4-7 of this chapter, may appeal such calculations and allocation to the
director as outlined herein.
   C.   Nonresidential Property: Any owner or occupant of nonresidential
property aggrieved by the initial or any subsequent calculation of the total
impervious area of such property, calculation of the stormwater management
charge for such property, as provided in section
13-4-8 of this chapter, may appeal such calculations or allocation to the
director. Upon such appeal, the stormwater management charge shall be
recalculated using information obtained as provided in this section.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing; Single-Family Or Multi-Family Residential
Property: An appeal by the owner, occupant, or occupant organization of a
single-family or multi-family residential property must be filed in writing
within ninety (90) days after the initial billing of the stormwater management
charge for that property or within ninety (90) days after any billing showing a
recalculation of the stormwater management charge for that property. For an
appeal occurring within ninety (90) days of the initial billing of a property,
any adjustment of the stormwater management charge resulting from such appeal
shall be retroactive to the date of the initial billing. For an appeal
occurring within ninety (90) days of a billing showing a recalculation of the
stormwater management charge, any adjustment of the stormwater management
charge resulting from such appeal shall be retroactive to the date the
recalculated bill went into effect.
   E.   Time Limit For Filing; Nonresidential Property: The owner, occupant, or
occupant organization of a nonresidential property, who is aggrieved: 1) by the
initial or any subsequent calculation of the impervious area of the property,
2) by the calculation of the stormwater management charge, or 3) by the
allocation of such charge among occupants, may appeal such determinations,
provided that such appeal must be filed in writing within ninety (90) days
after the initial billing of the stormwater management charge for that property
or within ninety (90) days after any billing showing a recalculation of the
stormwater management charge for that property. If an appeal occurs within
ninety (90) days after the initial billing of a property, any adjustment of the
stormwater management charge resulting from such appeal shall be retroactive to
the date of the initial billing. If an appeal occurs within ninety (90) days
after a billing showing a recalculation of the stormwater management charge,
any adjustment of the stormwater management charge resulting from such appeal
shall be retroactive to the date the recalculated bill went into effect.
   F.   Information Required: Appeals by the owners, occupants, or occupant
organizations of multi-family residential properties or nonresidential
properties shall include a statement of the total property area, and/or total
impervious area, as appropriate for the particular grounds for appeal. Appeals
by the owners of single-family residential properties shall include a statement
or data showing the actual square footage of the lot or parcel. Such
information may be shown on stormwater management reporting forms or on appeal
forms and may be accompanied by plats, county assessor's records, or survey
data. The director may request additional information from the appealing party.
Based upon the information provided by the utility and appealing party, the
director shall make a final calculation of the stormwater management charge.
The director shall notify the parties, in writing, of the director's decision
within ninety (90) days after receipt of the appeal. If still aggrieved, a
party may request, in writing, a review by the city manager of the director's
decision. Such request must be filed with the city manager within thirty (30)
days after the director's decision, shall cite specific error by the director,
and shall include the calculation of the stormwater management charge which the
appealing party believes to be correct. The city manager shall review the
record presented and render a written decision within thirty (30) days after
receipt of the request for review. The city manager may request additional
information from either party. If still aggrieved, a party may request review
of the city manager's decision by the city council in the same manner as above
provided for review by the city manager. The filing of an appeal shall not
excuse the payment of the stormwater management charge when due. However, the
city shall refund any portion of the charge paid subsequent to the filing of
the appeal which is adjudged to be excessive, with interest at the rate
provided by law. (2007 Code § 44-280)
13-4-10: RATE DETERMINATIONS; COMPLIANCE WITH BOND COVENANTS:
   A.   Rate Determination: In calculating the SFU rate as provided in section
13-4-5 of this chapter, the director shall include in the budgeted expense and
revenue amounts sufficient funds as will ensure compliance with any and all
rate covenants applicable to any outstanding bonds, notes or other obligations
issued in connection with the construction and operation of the stormwater
management utility system.
   B.   Issuance Of Additional Bonds: For purposes of complying with any
covenant relating to the issuance of additional bonds, notes or other
obligations ranking on a parity with outstanding bonds issued in connection
with the construction and operation of the stormwater management utility, the
director shall, prior to council consideration of the resolution to take
additional action for the issuance of such additional bonds, and with such
assistance from the city's independent accountants as the director deems
necessary, calculate the SFU rate necessary to produce revenues sufficient to
comply with such covenant and shall certify the rate to the city manager. The
city manager shall inform the city council of the revised SFU rate at the time
that the resolution to take additional action for the issuance of such bonds is
submitted to the council for its review and approval. Upon council approval of
such resolution, the city manager shall publish the revised SFU rate once in a
newspaper of general circulation, shall give notice thereof to contributors if
and as required by applicable state or federal law, and shall proceed to impose
and collect the rate commencing with the next available billing cycle. (2007
Code § 44-281)
13-4-11: BILLING, DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS AND COLLECTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Billing Procedure: The procedures for billing of the stormwater
management service charges provided in sections
13-4-6 through
13-4-8 of this chapter and for the collection of delinquent stormwater
management service charges are as provided in section
13-1C-4 of this title.
   B.   Billing Directly For Stormwater Management Services: Contributors who
are not billed by the city for water, sanitary sewer or refuse will be directly
billed for stormwater management services by the city. In such instances, the
billing and collection of stormwater management charges is subject to the same
rules and procedures as to delinquency in payment, certification of
delinquency, and property lien as provided in section
13-1C-4 of this title. (Ord. 55-12, 9-17-2012)
13-4-12: ANNUAL REVIEW OF SFU RATE:
Under this chapter, the director shall review the SFU rate annually and revise
the rate as necessary to ensure that the system generates adequate revenues to
pay total annual revenue requirements. (2007 Code § 44-283)
13-4-13: EXPENSES OF COLLECTION OF CHARGES:
The incremental cost of collecting and accounting for all stormwater management
charges, including reasonable compensation to the city treasurer; the
maintenance of all books and records; the employment of necessary personnel;
the cost of all books, records, materials and supplies; the obtaining and
maintaining of all office and storage space; and all other costs and expenses
reasonably necessary in connection therewith or incidental thereto, shall be a
part of the cost of operating the stormwater utility and shall be incurred when
the city treasurer, in the exercise of his or her judgment, shall so determine.
The incremental cost thereof shall be deducted by the Chief Financial Officer,
upon his or her certification as to the amount thereof, from the remittance to
which it relates, subject to the condition that any proposed change in any
method of computing such incremental cost may be effective prospectively only
and only after such proposed change shall have been submitted to and approved
by the city council. (2007 Code § 44-286; amd. Ord. 3-20, 1-21-2020; Ord. 6-25,
2-17-2025)
CHAPTER 5
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS AND DISCHARGES
TO STORM SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
13-5-1: Definitions
13-5-2: Applicability
13-5-3: Responsibility For Administration
13-5-4: Severability
13-5-5: Ultimate Responsibility
13-5-6: Discharge Prohibitions
13-5-7: Suspension Of MS4 Access
13-5-8: Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges
13-5-9: Monitoring Of Discharges
13-5-10: Prevent, Control And Reduce Pollutants By Use Of BMPs
13-5-11: Watercourse Protection
13-5-12: Notification Of Spills
13-5-13: Enforcement
13-5-14: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
13-5-15: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
13-5-16: Cost Of Abatement Of Violation
13-5-17: Injunctive Relief
13-5-18: Violations Deemed Public Nuisance
13-5-19: Remedies Not Exclusive
13-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager or the city manager's designee.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act, 33 USC section 1251
et seq., and any amendments thereto.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES construction permits that
result in disturbance of one acre or more. Such activities include, but are not
limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, filling, and
demolition.
GEOTHERMAL PUMP AND DUMP SYSTEM: A system that uses a pump to extract water
from an underground aquifer, circulates the water through a heating or cooling
system, and discharges the water as nonstormwater discharge.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, that because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the
municipal separate storm sewer system, or waters of the state except as
exempted in subsection
13-5-6B of this chapter.
ILLICIT CONNECTION: Either of the following:
   A.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not
limited to, any conveyances which allow any nonstormwater discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by the city manager; or
   B.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by the city manager.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined
in 40 CFR 122.26 (b)(14).
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): The streets, gutters, conduits,
natural or artificial drains, channels and watercourses, and other facilities
that are owned, operated, maintained or controlled by the city and used for the
purpose of collecting, storing, transporting, or disposing of stormwater.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by the environmental protection agency or by a state
under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC 1342(b) that authorizes the
discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is
applicable on an individual, group, or general areawide basis.
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
POLLUTANT: Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
articles, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution;
floatables; sediment from soil erosion; pesticides, herbicides, and
fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and
pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues
that result from constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive
matter of any kind.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
SOIL EROSION: The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water,
wind, ice or gravity.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water
from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such precipitation.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN: A document that describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
SURFACE WATERS: All waters of the state other than ground waters, which include
ponds, lakes, rivers, streams, tidal and nontidal wetlands, public ditches, tax
ditches, and public drainage systems except those designed and used to collect,
convey, or dispose of sanitary sewage.
WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
WATERS OF THE STATE: Both surface waters and ground waters within the
boundaries of the state of Iowa and subject to its jurisdiction. (2007 Code §
44-290; amd. Ord. 52-20, 12-21-2020)
13-5-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all water entering the MS4 generated on any
developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by the city manager.
(2007 Code § 44-291)
13-5-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The city manager shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. (2007 Code § 44-292)
13-5-4: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
chapter. (2007 Code § 44-293)
13-5-5: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (2007 Code § 44-294)
13-5-6: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Prohibition Of Illegal Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the MS4 or watercourses any of the following:
      1.   Materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants, waters
containing pollutants, nonstormwater discharge, or those that cause or
contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards.
      2.   Geothermal pump and dump system discharges without the express
written consent of the city manager. The city manager may allow such discharge
if it does not present or will not present an imminent and substantial danger
to the operation of the MS4, public property, private property, the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or waters of the state.
   B.   Exemptions: The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal
discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as
follows:
      1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, sump pump discharge,
foundation or footing drains (not including active ground water dewatering
systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than 1 PPM chlorine),
firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by the city manager as being
necessary to protect public health and safety.
      3.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the city manager prior to the time of the test.
      4.   The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the environmental protection
agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   C.   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections: The construction, use, maintenance
or continued existence of illicit connections to the storm drain system is
prohibited.
      1.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      2.   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue. (2007 Code § 44-295; amd. Ord. 52-20, 12-21-2020)
13-5-7: SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS:
   A.   Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The city
manager may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person
when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the city manager may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the state, or
to minimize danger to persons.
   B.   Suspension Due To Detection Of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have the person's MS4
access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The city manager shall notify a violator of the proposed termination
of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the city manager for a
reconsideration and hearing.
   C.   Reinstatement Without Approval: A person commits an offense if the
person reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this section,
without the prior approval of the city manager. (2007 Code § 44-296)
13-5-8: INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES:
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater
discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of
compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the city
manager prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4. (2007 Code § 44-297)
13-5-9: MONITORING OF DISCHARGES:
   A.   Applicability: This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   B.   Access To Facilities: The city manager shall be permitted to enter and
inspect facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force that require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the city manager.
      1.   Facility operators shall allow the city manager ready access to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
      2.   The city manager shall have the right to set up on any permitted
facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the city manager to
conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
      3.   The city manager shall have the right to require the discharger to
install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and
monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to
measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their
accuracy.
      4.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the city manager and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
      5.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city manager access to a
permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this
chapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with an NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the city manager reasonable access to the permitted facility
for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this
chapter.
      6.   If the city manager has been refused access to any part of the
premises from which stormwater is discharged, and he/she is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and
welfare of the community, then the city manager may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction. (2007 Code § 44-298)
13-5-10: PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE POLLUTANTS BY USE OF BMPs:
The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall
provide, at the owner's or operator's own expense, reasonable protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal
storm drain system or watercourses through the use of structural and
nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premises,
that is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to
implement, at such person's expense, additional structural and nonstructural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES
permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial
activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the
provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of the
NPDES permit. (2007 Code § 44-299)
13-5-11: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse. (2007 Code § 44-300)
13-5-12: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the United
States such person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials such person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of nonhazardous materials, such person shall notify the city manager in
person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day.
Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the city manager within three (3) business days of the
phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a
commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such
establishment shall also retain an on site written record of the discharge and
the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for
at least three (3) years. (2007 Code § 44-301)
13-5-13: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the city manager finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the
city manager may order compliance by written notice of violation to the
responsible person. Such notice may require without limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      3.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      4.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      5.   Payment of administrative and remediation costs; and
      6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   B.   Abatement Or Restoration: If abatement of a violation and/or
restoration of affected property is required, the notice shall set forth a
deadline within which such remediation or restoration must be completed. Such
notice shall further advise that, should the violator fail to remediate or
restore within the established deadline, the work will be done by a designated
governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to
the violator. (2007 Code § 44-302)
13-5-14: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
city manager to the city council. The notice of appeal must be received by the
city manager within fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice of violation.
Hearing on the appeal before the city council shall take place within fifteen
(15) days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The city council
may rescind, modify or affirm the notice of violation. The decision of the city
council shall be final. (2007 Code § 44-303)
13-5-15: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or in the event of an appeal, within thirty (30)
days of the decision of the city council upholding the decision of the city
manager, then representatives of the city manager may enter upon the subject
private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow
the city manager or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the
purposes set forth above. (2007 Code § 44-304)
13-5-16: COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION:
Within thirty (30) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property shall be notified by the city manager of the cost of abatement,
including administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protest
with the city manager objecting to the amount of the assessment within fifteen
(15) days thereafter. If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as
determined by the decision of the city manager or by the expiration of the time
in which to file an appeal, the charges shall be certified by the city clerk to
the Dubuque County treasurer in the manner of a special assessment against the
property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the
assessment. (2007 Code § 44-305)
13-5-17: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the city manager may
petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from
activities which would create further violations or compelling the person to
perform abatement or remediation of the violation. (2007 Code § 44-306)
13-5-18: VIOLATIONS DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and
deemed a nuisance. (2007 Code § 44-307)
13-5-19: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the city manager to seek cumulative remedies. (2007 Code § 44-
308)
CHAPTER 6
SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
13-6-1: Definitions
13-6-2: Deposits On Other Public Or Private Property
13-6-3: Wrapping And Draining Of Certain Solid Wastes
13-6-4:    Unlawful Accumulations
13-6-5:    Storage And Accumulation Restricted
13-6-6:    Hazardous And Prohibited Wastes Regulated
13-6-7:    Vehicles Hauling Solid Waste
13-6-8:    Use Of State Approved Dump Site Or Disposal Project
13-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
 
           Any material such as lumber, floor coverings, brick, plaster, sheet metal or
BUILDING   any other substances accumulated as a result of repairs or additions to
MATERIALS: existing buildings, construction of new buildings or demolition of existing
           structures.
BULKY ITEM Any items that do not fit into a city-issued refuse cart and that are larger
(S):       than three feet by two feet (3' x 2') or weigh more than forty (40) pounds.
           Shall mean and include the following properties in the City of Dubuque:
           A.   Single-family dwellings.
           B.   Multiple-family dwellings up to and including six (6) dwelling units.
CLASS I    C.   Dwelling units in business or commercial premises.
PREMISES:  Where two (2) or more laterally connected or joined dwelling units, including
           condominiums, townhouses, and row houses, in which each dwelling unit has
           separate access and utility service, each dwelling unit shall constitute a
           single-family dwelling.
 
 
          Residential premises other than Class I residential premises, located in the
          City of Dubuque, including:
CLASS II  A.   Dwellings in trailer courts;
PREMISES: B.   Schools, colleges, churches, convents, nursing homes, rooming houses and
          other semiprivate institutions; and
          C.   Multiple-family dwellings exceeding six (6) dwelling units.
CLASS III All business and commercial premises located in the City of Dubuque, including
PREMISES: that part of a residential premises with a business or commercial use.
DWELLING: Shall mean and include any building or portion thereof containing one or more
          dwelling units.
DWELLING  Shall mean and include one or more connected rooms having complete kitchen
UNIT:     facilities and arranged, designed, or used as living quarters for one family
          only.
FOOD      Solid, semisolid, and liquid animal and vegetable residuals resulting from the
SCRAPS:   handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving and consuming of food.
          All solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from
          the handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving and consuming of food or of
GARBAGE:  material intended for use as food, and all offal, excluding useful industrial
          byproducts, and shall include all such substances from all public and private
          establishments and from all residences.
          Waste materials, including, but not limited to, poisons, pesticides, herbicides,
HAZARDOUS acids, caustics, biohazardous wastes, flammable or explosive materials and
WASTES:   similar harmful wastes which require special handling, and which must be
          disposed of in such a manner as to conserve the environment and protect the
          public health and safety.
 
 
                      Any biodegradable waste material originating from plants,
                      animals, or other natural sources that can be decomposed
                      or broken down into simpler organic compounds through
ORGANIC WASTE:        biological processes. This includes but is not limited to
                      food scraps, yard waste, paper products, and other
                      biodegradable materials. Organic waste does not include
                      materials such as plastics, metals, or glass which do not
                      readily decompose under natural conditions.
                      In addition to the record titleholder, any person
                      residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating, or
OWNER:                transacting business in any premises and as between such
                      parties, the duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and
                      obligations hereafter imposed shall be joint and several.
PREMISES:             A building or part of a building and its grounds located
                      in the City of Dubuque.
                      Materials, as designated by the City of Dubuque and set
                      out in this chapter, which would otherwise become solid
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: waste that can be source separated, collected, processed,
                      and returned to the economic stream in the form of raw
                      materials or products.
                      All landfilled material generated by occupiers of land
REFUSE:               within the City of Dubuque corporate limits, whether
                      recyclable or nonrecyclable material.
                      Garbage, refuse, rubbish, recyclable materials, organic
                      waste, and other similar discarded solid or semisolid
SOLID WASTE:          materials, including, but not limited to, such materials
                      resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and
                      domestic activities. Solid waste does not include toxic
                      or hazardous materials.
                      Organic materials generated from routine maintenance and
                      landscaping activities within residential, commercial, or
                      public properties. This includes grass clippings, leaves,
                      branches, shrub trimmings, and other vegetative matter
YARD WASTE:           originating from the maintenance of lawns, gardens, and
                      outdoor landscapes. Yard waste does not include materials
                      such as soil, rocks, or construction debris. (Ord. 20-06,
                      3-2-2006, eff. 4-3-2006; amd. Ord. 17-20, 4-23-2020; Ord.
                      9-21, 3-24-2021, eff. 7-1-2021; Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024,
                      eff. 7-1-2024)
 
13-6-2: DEPOSITS ON OTHER PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Prohibition: No person shall throw, rake, deposit, dump, drop, spill or
store (other than the placement of containers for collection as provided
herein) any solid waste or toxic and hazardous wastes upon the streets,
sidewalks, rights of way or any public or private property within the city.
   B.   Exception: This section shall not apply to junk dealers, auto salvage
dealers, pawnbrokers or secondhand dealers licensed under title 4, chapter 6 of
this code. (2007 Code § 40-17; amd. Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024)
13-6-3: WRAPPING AND DRAINING OF CERTAIN SOLID WASTES:
All solid waste consisting of waste animal and vegetable matter which may
attract flies, dogs, cats, rodents, and other animals shall be drained of all
excess liquid, wrapped in paper or disposable containers, and placed or stored,
until collected, in covered suitable containers. (2007 Code § 40-19; amd. Ord.
13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024)
13-6-4: UNLAWFUL ACCUMULATIONS:
   A.   Health Or Sanitation Hazard: It shall be unlawful for any person to
permit to accumulate on any premises, improved or vacant, or on any public
place in the city, such quantities of solid waste, either in containers or not,
that shall constitute a health or sanitation hazard.
   B.   Storage Within Or Close To Buildings: It shall be unlawful for any
person to accumulate quantities of refuse, papers, garbage, ashes or other
solid waste within or close to any building in the city, unless the same is
stored in containers in such a manner as not to create a health or fire hazard.
(2007 Code § 40-20; amd. Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024)
13-6-5: STORAGE AND ACCUMULATION RESTRICTED:
   A.   Within the corporate limits of the city, all garbage or refuse
consisting of waste animal or vegetable matter upon which rats may feed, and
all small dead animals, shall be placed and stored until collected in covered
metal containers of a type prescribed by the health officer.
   B.   Dumping On Premises Or Waterways Prohibited: It is unlawful for any
person to dump or place on any premises, land or waterway, any dead animals, or
any waste vegetable or animal matter of any kind.
   C.   Providing Harborage For Rats: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, leave, dump, or permit to accumulate any garbage, rubbish or trash in
any building or on any premises, improved or vacant, or on any open lot or
alley in the city so that the same shall or may afford food or harborage for
rats.
   D.   Lumber And Boxes Placed On Elevated Racks: It shall be unlawful for any
person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved or vacant, or on any
open lot or alley in the city any lumber, boxes, barrels, bottles, cans,
containers or similar material that may be permitted to remain thereon unless
same shall be placed on open racks that are elevated not less than eighteen
inches (18") above the ground, and evenly piled or stacked. (2007 Code § 31-74;
amd. Ord. 17-20, 4-23-2020; Ord. 9-21, 3-24-2021, eff. 7-1-2021; Ord. 13-24, 4-
15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024)
13-6-6: HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED WASTES REGULATED:
   A.   Deposits Prohibited Except For Special Collection: No person shall
deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for city collection any
hazardous wastes or prohibited wastes, except when a special collection is
established by the city manager.
   B.   Transportation By Owner: Hazardous wastes and prohibited wastes shall
be transported by the owner to a sanitary disposal project licensed by the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources to accept such wastes.
   C.   Prohibited Wastes Described: "Prohibited wastes" includes, but is not
limited to, waste oils, lead acid batteries and tires.
   D.   The City of Dubuque solid waste collection service will not collect,
including but not limited to, the following materials: Industrial waste; oil
soaked rags, solvents, liquid paints, acids, chemicals, or other explosive or
highly combustible or flammable or hazardous materials; caustics, poisons,
pesticides or herbicides; radioactive or toxic waste, biomedical waste;
liquids, including motor oil; gaseous waste; septage, raw sewage, sludge and
industrial process sludge; manure contaminated hay and straw or animal feces
unless properly bagged; carcasses, viscera, or entrails of animals, unless
properly contained, wrapped, or packaged; hot ashes; and building materials
that are not bagged. (2007 Code § 40-21; amd. Ord. 17-20, 4-23-2020; Ord. 9-21,
3-24-2021, eff. 7-1-2021; Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024; Ord. 13-25, 4-
28-2025, eff. 7-1-2025)
13-6-7: VEHICLES HAULING SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Dropping, Sifting Or Leaking Of Load: No person shall haul any solid
waste upon the streets, alleys or public places of the city unless the vehicle
used for such purpose is so constructed or loaded or the load securely covered
as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise
escaping or its load covering from dropping from the vehicle, except that
materials may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or
other substance may be applied on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway.
   B.   Sanitary Condition: All vehicles, containers and dumpsters used for the
collection and removal of solid waste shall be kept in a clean, inoffensive,
and sanitary condition. All solid waste shall be handled in such a way as to
prevent the scattering, spilling or leakage of same. (2007 Code § 40-22; amd.
Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024)
13-6-8: USE OF STATE APPROVED DUMP SITE OR DISPOSAL PROJECT:
   A.   State Licensed Project: No person shall haul or cause to be hauled any
solid waste to any sanitary disposal project, dump site or any other area
unless such disposal project, dump site or other area is licensed by and in
full compliance with all regulations in the state in which it is located.
   B.   Filling Or Excavating; Permit Required: No person shall use dirt,
stone, brick, concrete or similar inorganic material for fill, landscaping,
excavation or grading without first obtaining a building permit, if required by
other provisions of this code, and only in conformance with all provisions of
the zoning and subdivision ordinances of this code. (2007 Code § 40-23; amd.
Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024)
ARTICLE A. CITY OR PRIVATE COLLECTION SERVICE
SECTION:
13-6A-1: City Manager's Authority Generally
13-6A-2: Availability Of Collection Service
13-6A-3: Refuse Collection Service
13-6A-4: Recycling Collection Service
13-6A-5: Organic Waste Collection Service
13-6A-6: Bulky Item Collection Service
13-6A-7: Frequency, Time And Areas Of Collection
13-6A-8: Storage, Containment And Set-Out Locations Of Solid Waste
13-6A-9: Ownership Of Materials; Unauthorized Collecting Prohibited
13-6A-10: Rates And Charges Established; Exceptions
13-6A-11: Charges; Billing And Collection
13-6A-12: Private Collection Service
13-6A-1: CITY MANAGER'S AUTHORITY GENERALLY:
The City Manager, or designee, is hereby authorized and directed to employ City
owned vehicles and equipment and the necessary operating personnel to collect
refuse, recyclable materials, organic waste, and bulky items and to collect
fees and administer the program as provided for in this article in the City,
upon the terms and conditions of this article. (2007 Code § 40-31; amd. Ord.
13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024)
13-6A-2: AVAILABILITY OF COLLECTION SERVICE:
   A.   Collection service is provided within to City residents and businesses
as described in this Chapter. The City Manager may consider requests for
service outside of city limits, at the City Manager's sole discretion.
   B.   Class I Premises: City solid waste collection services shall be
mandatory.
   C.   Class II Premises: Class II premises not serviced by City solid waste
collection services may apply to the City Manager for such collection services.
   D.   Class III Premises: Class III premises not serviced by City solid waste
collection services may apply to the City Manager for such collection services.
   E.   Recycling Services: Class II premises not serviced by City solid waste
collection services and Class III premises may apply to the City Manager for
such recycling services.
   F.   Refusal Of Service: The City Manager may refuse solid waste collection
services or recycling services because of quantities or characteristics beyond
the capacity or capability to be handled efficiently or safely by City
personnel and equipment. (Ord. 14-19, 3-7-2019, eff. 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 17-20,
4-23-2020; Ord. 9-21, 3-24-2021, eff. 7-1-2021; Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-
1-2024)
13-6A-3: REFUSE COLLECTION SERVICE:
   A.   All City of Dubuque solid waste customers shall use a city-issued cart
for collection. The base rate gives access to a thirty five (35) gallon tipper
cart for weekly refuse collection.
   B.   In cases where a customer may choose multiple refuse carts or a cart
larger than the base rate thirty five (35) gallon cart, the customer may choose
from three (3) additional cart sizes of forty-eight (48), sixty-four (64), or
ninety-six (96) gallons.
   C.   Excess Refuse: Official City of Dubuque single-use refuse stickers
shall be applied to each additional standard thirty-five (35)-gallon bag or
small item (not exceeding three feet by two feet (3' x 2') or heavier than
forty pounds (40 lbs.)) which does not fit in the subscribed cart.
   D.   Electronics or items larger than three feet by two feet (3' x 2') or
heavier than forty (40) pounds must be scheduled as a bulky item pick-up.
   E.   The City Manager may require additional cart capacity if the subscribed
cart is insufficient. The City shall notify the applicable account holder in
writing of the additional capacity requirement, deliver the larger cart, and
adjust the monthly bill.
   F.   All refuse placed into City-issued carts must be in tied bags.
   G.   Except for Class II premises, biomedical waste shall be placed in
suitable containers separately from all other solid waste. Sharp objects, such
as hypodermic needles, syringes, and lancets, shall be securely contained in
hard plastic or metal disposable containers with screw-on or tightly secured
lids for collection. Other biomedical waste, such as soiled bandages,
disposable sheets, and medical gloves, shall be placed in thick disposable
plastic bags or shall be double-bagged.
   H.   Glass and similar materials shall be placed in puncture-resistant boxes
and securely closed. (Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024; amd. Ord. 13-25, 4-
28-2025, eff. 7-1-2025)
13-6A-4: RECYCLING COLLECTION SERVICE:
   A.   One City owned curbside recycling container shall be provided by the
City to each dwelling for the collection of recyclable materials. If additional
recycling capacity is needed, a second container may be issued.
   B.   The following types of solid waste are curbside recyclable materials:
Rigid plastics with a recycling symbol between #1 - 5, Paper/cardboard/
newspaper, and metal materials (such as cans, clean foil, pans).
   C.   When a customer's recycling container is frequently contaminated with
non-recyclable material and violations persist, the City may remove the
container and stop the weekly collection. (Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-
2024)
13-6A-5: ORGANIC WASTE COLLECTION SERVICE:
   A.   All organic waste shall be separated from all other solid waste and
shall be composted on the premises or placed in yard waste collection
containers for collection.
   B.   Any premises composting on site shall maintain all compost piles in
accordance with Title 6,
Chapter 4 of this Code.
   C.   Organic waste shall be collected according to the schedule established
by the City Manager.
   D.   The following materials may be collected curbside: branches and tree
limbs - less than five feet (5') long (must be bundled), flowers and potted
plants (no pots), food scraps - fruit and vegetables, peels, pits, coffee
grounds, eggshells, bread and grain products, grass clippings, leaves, plants,
weeds, brush, natural Christmas trees, bones, dairy products, meat, poultry,
fish, and non-wax coated paper products.
   E.   Preparation Of Organic Waste: Organic waste collected by the City shall
be placed in biodegradable paper bags no more than thirty five (35) gallons,
bundled branches, privately owned thirty five (35) gallon containers,
subscribed city-issued sixty four (64) gallon organic waste carts, or
subscribed city issued thirteen (13) gallon organic waste carts.
   F.   Organic waste set-out in a biodegradable paper bag requires single use
stickers. The bags shall be no more than thirty five (35) gallon capacity,
minimum two (2) ply weatherized material, and designed for yard waste
collection capacity.
   G.   Disposable organic waste bags shall not exceed forty (40) pounds
without tearing or falling apart. Cardboard boxes or plastic bags shall not be
used for organic waste collection.
   H.   Organic waste set out in privately owned thirty five (35) gallon cans
require a single-use yard waste sticker or an annual decal. (Ord. 13-24, 4-15-
2024, eff. 7-1-2024; amd. Ord. 13-25, 4-28-2025, eff. 7-1-2025)
13-6A-6: BULKY ITEM COLLECTION SERVICE:
   A.   No person shall place bulky items that are larger than three feet by
two feet (3' x 2') in diameter or weigh over forty (40) pounds out for
collection except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Premises receiving City solid waste collection service are eligible to
set out bulky items for collection provided the customer schedules in advance
of their collection. Items which are placed out for collection which have not
been previously scheduled for collection will not be collected and the property
owner shall be responsible for their removal. (Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-
2024)
13-6A-7: FREQUENCY, TIME AND AREAS OF COLLECTION:
   A.   Frequency And Time Of Collection: Collections shall be made not more
than once weekly at such time and in such areas of the City as shall be
determined and set out in schedules prepared by the City Manager in accordance
with the provisions of this article. All collections shall be made between the
hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
   B.   Collection Schedule: The collection schedule shall not include official
City holidays unless otherwise determined by the City Manager. However, a
Saturday may be substituted as the collection day to replace the collection
which would otherwise be made on the day of the week the holiday occurs.
   C.   Authority To Change Schedule: The City Manager is hereby authorized and
empowered to change or amend the collection schedules from time to time as the
City Manager may deem necessary. (2007 Code § 40-33; amd. Ord. 17-20, 4-23-
2020; Ord. 9-21, 3-24-2021, eff. 7-1-2021; Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-
2024)
13-6A-8: PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS FOR COLLECTION:
   A.   Alleys: Where collections are made from alleys, solid waste containers
shall be placed in one location for each dwelling, in clear view and at the
owner's property line abutting the alley and on the days designated.
   B.   Streets: Where collections are made from the street, solid waste
containers shall be placed in one location for each dwelling, in clear view and
in the street right-of-way on the owner's property side of the curb and on the
days designated in said schedule. Such containers shall be placed so as not to
interfere with vehicular and pedestrian traffic and when emptied shall be
promptly removed by the owner.
   C.   Time Limit For Placement Of Containers On Streets: No person shall
place solid waste or recycling at the street for collection more than twenty
four (24) hours before the scheduled collection day. No person shall leave
solid waste containers or recycling containers at the street for more than
twenty four (24) hours after the scheduled collection day.
      All solid waste shall be placed at the designated collection location for
City collection by six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the scheduled collection day.
   D.   Duty When Solid Waste Not Collected: Any solid waste not in compliance
with this chapter shall not be collected by the City and shall be removed by
the owner within twenty four (24) hours after the scheduled collection day and
stored in such a manner as not to create a health, safety, or fire hazard.
   E.   Solid waste collection containers stored in the right-of-way for longer
than twenty four (24) hours after the scheduled collection day may be subject
to removal at the property owner's expense.
   F.   The City may make exceptions for the storage and set out of solid waste
containers for elderly or disabled persons upon application to the Public Works
Department.
   G.   On collection days, solid waste containers shall be placed in plain
view at a point within two feet (2') of the curb or alley line.
   H.   If a customer would like to change the location of the normal set-out
for collection, it must be approved by the City.
   I.   Containers must have a two-foot (2') radius around each container, and
the lid of the container must open toward the street or alley.
   J.   Material not intended for collection shall not be kept on or near the
curb or alley line. The city shall not be responsible for any material so
placed which is collected for disposal. (Ord. 27-17, 6-5-2017; amd. Ord. 17-20,
4-23-2020; Ord. 9-21, 3-24-2021, eff. 7-1-2021; Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-
1-2024)
13-6A-9: OWNERSHIP OF MATERIALS; UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTING PROHIBITED:
From the time of placement for collection as provided in section
13-6A-8  of this article, all solid waste and recyclable materials and
recycling containers which meet the requirements of this chapter placed for
collection by the City shall become and be the property of the City and it
shall be a violation of this section for any person other than authorized
personnel of the City to collect, pick up, or cause to be collected or picked
up, any such materials. (2007 Code § 40-35; amd. Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-
1-2024)
13-6A-10: RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Refuse:
      1.   Base Fee and Conditions: A fee of eighteen dollars and eleven cents
($18.11) per dwelling unit per month shall be paid to the City by the account
holder for solid waste collection services. The fee shall be in payment for
collection and disposal of one (1) thirty-five (35)-gallon City owned cart per
month per cart.
      2.   Optional Carts: The fee for a forty-eight (48)-gallon solid waste
cart shall be twenty dollars and twenty-eight cents ($20.28) per month. The fee
for a sixty-four (64)-gallon solid waste cart is twenty-four dollars and
thirty-two cents ($24.32) per month per cart. The fee for a ninety-six (96)-
gallon solid waste cart is thirty-four dollars and sixteen cents ($34.16) per
month per cart.
      3.   Alley Cart Fees: The fee for a forty-eight (48)-gallon solid waste
cart is eighteen dollars and eleven cents ($18.11) per month per cart. The fee
for a sixty-four (64)-gallon solid waste cart is nineteen dollars and sixty
cents ($19.60) per month per cart. The fee for a ninety-six (96)-gallon solid
waste cart is twenty-eight dollars and twenty-seven cents ($28.27) per month
per cart.
      4.   Shared Carts: In multifamily dwellings, where the property owner is
the account holder, the owner can opt to using shared ninety six (96) gallon
carts. Each unit will be billed the basic service, and the number of units will
share one or more ninety six (96) gallon carts.
      5.   Single-Use Refuse Stickers: The fee for a single use refuse sticker
shall be two dollars ($2.00) and shall be applied to each additional standard
solid waste container, bag, or small item.
      6.   A fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be paid to the City for each
removal of refuse containers from the curb.
   B.   Recycling:
      1.   For Class II premises not serviced by City solid waste collection
services for recycling collection, upon approval of an application for City
recycling collection a fee of seven dollars ($7.00) per month per ninety six
(96) gallon container (or volume equivalence) shall be paid to the City by the
property owner of each.
      2.   A fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be paid to the City for each
removal of recycling containers from the curb.
   C.   Organic Waste:
      1.   The fee for single-use brush-tie shall be one dollar and fifty cents
($1.50) each.
      2.   The fee for single use stickers shall be one dollar and fifty cents
($1.50) each.
      3.   The fee paid to the City by a customer of record with the City for
an annual yard waste decal for a privately-owned rigid thirty five (35) gallon
container shall be forty dollars ($40.00) each. A decal shall only be used by
the customer of record with the City who purchased it.
      4.   The fee paid to the City for subscription to a sixty four (64)
gallon City-issued organic waste cart shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per cart
per month.
      5.   The minimum fee paid to the City for collection of a scheduled leaf
rake out is twenty dollars ($20.00) for a forty (40) standard leaf bag
equivalent pile of leaves in the parking lane at the curb.
      6.   A fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be paid to the City for each
removal of organic waste containers from the curb.
   D.   Bulky Waste:
      1.   A fee of thirteen dollars ($13.00) shall be paid by the owner for
each time the service is provided for up to the equivalent of three (3) cubic
yards of solid waste.
      2.   An additional fee of thirteen dollars ($13.00) shall be paid for
each additional three (3) cubic yards of solid waste.
      3.   A fee of six dollars ($6.00) shall be paid to the City for each
tire.
      4.   A fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be paid to the City by the
owner for each appliance collected in the service (such as stoves, microwaves,
dishwashers, refrigerators, and dehumidifiers).
      5.   A fee of six dollars ($6.00) shall be paid to the City for metal
material that is larger than two feet by three feet (2' x 3') and or heavier
than forty (40) pounds (such as grills, bed rails, exercise bikes).
      6.   A fee of twenty ($20.00) shall be paid to the City for each
collection of a TV or monitor.
      7.   A fee of six dollars ($6.00) shall be paid to the City for the
collection of items with a plug in/chord per pick-up (such as VCR's, computer
tower, or computer printer), Excluding TVs and monitors.
      8.   A fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be paid to the City for each
collection requested by the for service on a day not receiving weekly
collection at the service address in which the collection crew is not in that
service area or is not a current weekly solid waste customer of the City.
 
Service Type FY26 Rates
Service Type                                                        FY26 Rates
              35-Gallon Cart                                        $18.11
              48-Gallon Cart                                        $20.28
              64-Gallon Cart                                        $24.32
              96-Gallon Cart                                        $34.16
              48-Gallon - ALLEY CART                                $18.11
Refuse        64-Gallon - ALLEY CART                                $19.60
              96-Gallon - ALLEY CART                                $28.27
              Shared Cart Fee Per Unit                              $18.11
              Single-Use Trash Sticker                              $2.00
              Discount for Income Eligible Customers (see Paragraph ($9.06)
              F of Section 13-6A-F)
              Annual Yard Waste Decal                               $40.00
              64-Gallon Cart                                        $10.00
Organic Waste 13-Gallon Cart                                        $1.00
              Leaf Rake-Out                                         $20.00
              Yard Waste Brush Ties                                 $1.50
              Single-Use Yard Waste Sticker                         $1.50
Recycling     Recycling Only - Residential & Commercial             $7.00
              1 Hopper - 3 Cubic Yd of Refuse                       $13.00
              Tire                                                  $6.00
Bulky Items   Large Metal Material Pick-Up                          $6.00
              Appliance                                             $20.00
              TV and Monitors                                       $20.00
              Electronic Pick-Up                                    $6.00
Miscellaneous Off-Route/Non-Customer Fee                            $20.00
              Right-Of-Way Removal Fee                              $20.00
 
(Ord. 14-19, 3-7-2019, eff. 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 17-20, 4-23-2020; Ord. 22-20,
6-1-2020; Ord. 9-21, 3-24-2021, eff. 7-1-2021; Ord. 14-22, 3-29-2022; Ord. 15-
23, 3-23-2023, eff. 7-1-2023; Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024; amd. Ord.
13-25, 4-28-2025, eff. 7-1-2025)
13-6A-11: CHARGES; BILLING AND COLLECTION:
   A.   City Billing: The City Manager is authorized to bill tenants upon the
written request of the property owner and according to a procedure to be
established by the City Manager. The property owner in such cases shall provide
any information on each tenant's mailing address to aid in the collection of
fees for City services. In all cases, the property owner shall remain liable
for the payment of all charges required by this chapter.
   B.   Monthly Billing: All accounts shall be billed monthly. The payment of
bills is subject to the terms of section
13-1C-4  of this title.
   C.   Unpaid Billing For Class I Premises: The collection of solid waste
provided Class I premises and the maintenance of the availability of such
service, whether or not such service is used regularly or not at all by the
owner of such Class I premises, is hereby declared a benefit to said premises
at least equal to the monthly charges specified, and in case of failure to pay
the monthly charge when billed as heretofore provided, then the monthly charge
shall become a lien against the property benefitted or served and shall be
collected in the same manner as general Property Taxes.
   D.   Certify Delinquent Accounts To County Treasurer: It is the duty of the
City Treasurer to certify the actual rates and fees plus the costs of
administration to the County Treasurer as provided in section 13-1C-4 of this
title and all such costs will constitute a lien against said property and be
collected with and in the same manner as general Property Taxes on said
property.
   E.   In cases of extreme financial hardship, the City may make adjustments
in the monthly collection charges as deemed appropriate. In such cases, the
City may require proof of financial status or extreme hardship, as the City may
deem necessary.
   F.   When resident(s) of a Class I premises meets the HUD "Section 8"
guidelines for the size of the household may, upon application to the City
Manager or designee, be exempted from one-half (1/2) the established thirty
five (35) gallon refuse collection service rate. After the initial application,
annual review is required. (Ord. 29-08, 5-5-2008; amd. Ord. 56-12, 9-17-2012;
Ord. 3-20, 1-21-2020; Ord. 13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024)
13-6A-12:   PRIVATE COLLECTION SERVICE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of removing or
hauling solid waste from the premises of another person without a license to do
so from the City Manager. The issuance of such license shall be in the manner
prescribed and subject to the terms of title 4,
chapter 1  of this Code.
   B.   Application For License; Fee: Application for such license shall
specify the type of equipment and vehicles to be used, the routes to be
traveled, the places to be served and the name and residence of the applicant.
Such persons shall pay, at the Office of the City Treasurer, an annual license
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year for each vehicle engaged in such
business.
   C.   Display Of License Number On Vehicle: No person shall operate a vehicle
licensed under this section unless the license number is prominently displayed
on the lower portion of the driver's side of the windshield in clear view. Such
license number shall be affixed to the vehicle not less than five (5) days
after the day of issue.
   D.   Separability Of Provisions: It is the intention of the City Council
that each subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, and provision of this
section is separable, and if any provision is held unconstitutional or invalid
for any reason, such decision shall not affect the remainder of this section
nor any part thereof other than that affected by such decision. (2007 Code §
40-50; amd. Ord. 17-20, 4-23-2020; Ord. 9-21, 3-24-2021, eff. 7-1-2021; Ord.
13-24, 4-15-2024, eff. 7-1-2024)
TITLE 14
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
ARTICLE A. BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
14-1A-1: International Building Code Adopted
14-1A-2: International Building Code Amendments
14-1A-3: Permit Issuance Prohibited During Contemplation Or Consideration Of
Zoning Reclassification Or Zoning Or Subdivision Text Amendments
14-1A-4: Demolition Permits In Conservation Districts
14-1A-5: Exterior Security And Appearance Of Buildings
14-1A-6: Building Code Advisory And Appeal Board
14-1A-1: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
Except as hereinafter added to, deleted, modified, or amended, there is hereby
adopted by reference as the building code of the City that certain building
code known as the International Building Code, 2021 edition, and as published
by the International Code Council, and the provisions of such building code
shall be controlling in the construction of buildings and other structures and
in all matters covered by such building code within the corporate limits of the
City and shall be known as the “Dubuque Building Code”. A copy of the
International Building Code, 2021 edition, as adopted, shall be on file in the
Office of the City Clerk for public inspection. (Ord. 40-19, 9-3-2019; amd.
Ord. 21-23, 5-15-2023)
14-1A-2: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following additions, deletions, modifications, or amendments of the
International Building Code, 2021 edition, adopted in section
14-1A-1 of this article to read as follows:
Section 101.1. Title. Amended to read:
   These regulations shall be known as the Dubuque Building Code, hereinafter
referred to as “this code”.
Section 103.1. Creation of enforcement agency. Amended to read:
   103.1 Creation of enforcement agency.
   The Inspection & Construction Services Division is hereby created and the
official in charge thereof shall be known as the Building Official. The
function of this agency shall be the implementation, administration, and
enforcement of the provisions of this code.
Section 105.5. Expiration. Amended to read:
   105.5 Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work
on the site authorized by such permit is completed within one year after its
issuance. The Building Official is authorized to grant, in writing, one or more
extensions of time, for periods of not more than one hundred eighty (180) days
each. Each extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable case
demonstrated.
Sections 113.1 through 113.3 replaced with City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances
section
14-1A-6.
Section 114. Violations. Amended to read:
   114.1 Unlawful Acts. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure
or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of this code.
   The doing of any act, or the omission of any act, declared to be unlawful by
this code, or any code or ordinance herein adopted by reference, shall be
deemed a separate offense for each day or portion thereof during which any such
unlawful act is committed, continued, or permitted and upon conviction, shall
be punishable as provided in title 1 of the City Code of Ordinances. The
penalty herein provided shall be cumulative with and in addition to the
revocation, cancellation, or forfeiture of any license or permit elsewhere in
this code provided for violation thereof.
   A notice of violation is not required in every situation and City staff may
issue a municipal infraction without previously issuing a notice of violation.
Section 116. Unsafe Structures And Equipment. Amended to read:
   116 Unsafe Structures And Equipment. All buildings or structures regulated
by this code which are structurally unsafe or not provided with adequate
egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human
life are, for the purpose of this Section, unsafe. Any use of buildings or
structures constituting a hazard to safety, health, or public welfare by reason
of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster,
damage, or abandonment is, for the purposes of this Section, an unsafe use. Any
parapet wall, cornice, spire, tower, tank, statuary, or other appendage or
structural member which is supported by, attached to, or a part of a building
and which is in deteriorated condition or otherwise unable to sustain the
design loads which are specified in this code is, for the purposes of this
Section, hereby designated as an unsafe building appendage.
   All such unsafe buildings, structures, or appendages are hereby declared to
be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition,
or removal in accordance with the procedures set forth in title 14, chapter 3
of the Code of Ordinances.
Section 202. Definitions. Amendment to “building official” and inclusion of
“code official”:
   Building Official. See “Code Official”.
   Code Official. The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of this code or a duly authorized representative
thereof. Any reference to “Building Official” in this code shall have the same
meaning as “Code Official”.
Section 903.3.1.1.1. Exempt Locations. Amended to read:
   903.3.1.1.1 Exempt Locations. Automatic sprinklers shall not be required in
the following rooms or areas where such rooms or areas are protected with an
approved automatic fire detection system, in accordance with Section 907.2 of
this code, that will respond to visible or invisible particles of combustion.
Sprinklers shall not be omitted from a room or area merely because the room or
area is damp, of fire-resistance-rated construction, or contains electrical
equipment.
   1.   A room or area where the application of water, or flame and water,
constitutes a serious life or fire hazard.
   2.   A room or area where sprinklers are considered undesirable because of
the nature of the contents, where approved by the fire code official.
   3.   Generator and transformer rooms separated from the remainder of the
building by walls and floor/ceiling or roof/ceiling assemblies having a fire-
resistance rating of not less than 2 hours.
   4.   Rooms or areas that are of noncombustible construction with wholly
noncombustible contents.
   5.   Fire service access elevator machine rooms and machinery spaces.
   6.   Machine rooms, machinery spaces, control rooms and control spaces
associated with occupant evacuation elevators designed in accordance with
Section 3008.
Section 1031.3.2 Minimum dimensions. Amended to read:
   1031.3.2 Minimum dimensions. The minimum net clear opening height dimension
shall be 24 inches (610 mm). The minimum net clear opening width dimension
shall be 20 inches (508 mm). The net clear opening dimensions shall be the
result of normal operation of the opening.
   Exception: Replacement windows shall be exempt from the minimum size
requirements of this section, provided that the replacement window meets the
following conditions:
   1.   The replacement window is the manufacturer’s largest standard size
window that will fit within the existing frame or existing rough opening,
provided that the replacement window shall be of a style that provides for the
greatest net clear window opening area in the existing frame or existing rough
opening and shall have a minimum net clear opening width of 20 inches (508 mm),
a minimum net clear opening height of 22 inches (559 mm), and a minimum net
clear opening of 4.0 square feet (0.372 square meters).
   2.   The replacement window is not part of a change of occupancy or use.
Section 1031.3.3. Maximum height from floor. Amended to read:
   1031.3.3 Maximum height from floor.
   Emergency escape and rescue openings shall have the bottom of the clear
opening not greater than 44 inches (1118 mm) as measured from the floor.
   Exception:   The bottom of the clear opening may exceed 44 inches (1118 mm)
above the floor if the following conditions are met:
      a.   A platform capable of supporting a live load of 300 pounds shall be
permanently affixed at the interior of the structure. This platform shall be no
lower than 20 inches (508 mm) above the floor and no higher than 36 inches (914
mm) above the floor. The distance from the platform to the bottom of the clear
opening shall not exceed 36 inches (914 mm). The platform shall extend outward
from the wall a minimum of 18 inches (457 mm) and shall be a minimum of 36
inches (914 mm) wide or as wide as the clear openable width of the window,
whichever is greater, or another approved method/platform.
      b.   The emergency escape or rescue window shall comply with section
1031.3.2. (Ord. 33-20, 9-21-2020; amd. Ord. 21-23, 5-15-2023)
14-1A-3: PERMIT ISSUANCE PROHIBITED DURING CONTEMPLATION OR CONSIDERATION OF
ZONING RECLASSIFICATION OR ZONING OR SUBDIVISION TEXT AMENDMENTS:
The building official of the City is hereby prohibited from issuing a building
permit for real property for which action is contemplated or has been initiated
for a change in the zoning classification of the property or a text amendment
of the Zoning or Subdivision Ordinances. The prohibition shall be from the date
of the filing of the application with the Planning Services Department until
the date of final action of the City Council upon such zoning reclassification
or text amendment, including publication as provided by law where the
reclassification or amendment is adopted by the City Council. The City Council
may, by one or more resolutions, waive this prohibition in whole or in part.
(Ord. 21-16, 6-6-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
14-1A-4: DEMOLITION PERMITS IN CONSERVATION DISTRICTS:
   A.   Application Of Section: The provisions of this section shall apply to
all buildings located in whole or in part within the following described
conservation districts:
      1.   Fourth Street Neighborhood: Beginning at the intersection of Seventh
and Bluff Streets, thence southerly along Bluff Street to its intersection with
West Fifth Street; thence westerly along West Fifth Street to its intersection
with the northerly extension of Raymond Street; thence southerly along Raymond
Street and its northerly and southerly extensions to its intersection with West
Third Street; thence easterly along West Third Street to its intersection with
St. Mary's Street; thence southerly along St. Mary's Street to its intersection
with Emmett Street; thence easterly along Emmett Street to its intersection
with Bluff Street; thence southerly along Bluff Street to its intersection with
First Street; thence easterly along First Street to its intersection with the
alley between Bluff and Locust Streets; thence northerly along the alley
between Bluff and Locust Streets to its intersection with West Fifth Street;
thence easterly along West Fifth Street to its intersection with Locust Street;
thence northerly along Locust Street to its intersection with Seventh Street;
thence westerly along Seventh Street to its intersection with Bluff Street
which is the point of beginning.
      2.   Fenelon Place Neighborhood: Beginning at the intersection of West
Fifth and Burch Streets, thence southerly along Burch Street to its
intersection with West Third Street; thence easterly along West Third Street to
its intersection with the southerly extension of Raymond Street; thence
northerly along Raymond Street and its southerly and northerly extensions to
its intersection with West Fifth Street; thence westerly along West Fifth
Street to its intersection with Burch Street which is the point of beginning.
      3.   Third Street Neighborhood: Beginning at the intersection of West
Third and Hill Streets thence southwesterly along Hill Street to its
intersection with Langworthy Street; thence northwesterly along Langworthy
Street to its intersection with Alpine Street; thence northeasterly along
Alpine Street to its intersection with West Third Street; thence northwesterly
along West Third Street to its intersection with Nevada Street; thence
northeasterly along Nevada Street to its intersection with West Fifth Street;
thence southeasterly along West Fifth Street to its intersection with Alpine
Street; thence southerly along Alpine Street to its intersection with Melrose
Terrace; thence southeasterly along Melrose Terrace and its southeasterly
extension to its intersection with Winona Street; thence southwesterly along
Winona Street to its intersection with West Third Street; thence southeasterly
along West Third Street to its intersection with Hill Street which is the point
of beginning.
      4.   Washington Street Neighborhood: Beginning at the intersection of
Sixteenth and Washington Streets thence westerly along Sixteenth Street to its
intersection with Jackson Street; thence northerly along Jackson Street to its
intersection with Eighteenth Street; thence westerly along Eighteenth Street to
its intersection with Central Avenue; thence southerly along Central Avenue to
its intersection with Fourteenth Street; thence easterly along Fourteenth
Street to its intersection with Washington Street; thence northerly along
Washington Street to its intersection with Sixteenth Street which is the point
of beginning.
      5.   Jackson Park Neighborhood: Beginning at the intersection of
Fourteenth Street and Central Avenue thence westerly along Fourteenth Street to
its intersection with Iowa Street; thence southerly along Iowa Street to its
intersection with Tenth Street; thence westerly along Tenth Street to its
intersection with Bluff Street; thence northerly along Bluff Street to its
intersection with Locust Street; thence northwesterly along Locust Street to
its intersection with Ellis Street; thence northerly along Ellis Street and its
northerly extension to its intersection with Clarke Drive; thence northwesterly
along Clarke Drive to its intersection with Paul Street; thence northeasterly
along Paul Street to its intersection with Lowell Street; thence southeasterly
along Lowell Street to its intersection with North Main Street; thence
southerly along North Main Street to its intersection with Clarke Drive; thence
southeasterly along Clarke Drive and its southeasterly extension to its
intersection with Central Avenue; thence southerly along Central Avenue to its
intersection with Fourteenth Street which is the point of beginning.
      6.   West Eleventh Street Neighborhood: Beginning at the intersection of
Ninth and Bluff Streets thence westerly along Ninth Street to its intersection
with University Avenue; thence westerly along University Avenue to its
intersection with Spruce Street; thence northerly along Spruce Street to its
intersection with West Eleventh Street; thence westerly along West Eleventh
Street to its intersection with Walnut Street; thence northerly along Walnut
Street to its intersection with Loras Boulevard; thence westerly along Loras
Boulevard to its intersection with Cox Street; thence northerly along Cox
Street to its intersection with the westerly extension of West Sixteenth
Street; thence easterly along West Sixteenth Street and its westerly extension
to its intersection with Montrose Terrace; thence northerly along the
northeasterly extension of Montrose Terrace to its intersection with West
Locust Street; thence southeasterly along West Locust Street to its
intersection with Bluff Street; thence southerly along Bluff Street to its
intersection with Ninth Street which is the point of beginning.
      7.   Broadway Street Neighborhood: Beginning at the intersection of West
Twenty-third Street and Central Avenue thence westerly along West Twenty-third
Street to its intersection with Lewis Street; thence northwesterly along Lewis
Street to its intersection with Fulton Street; thence northerly along Fulton
Street to its intersection with King Street; thence easterly along King Street
and its easterly extension to its intersection with Central Avenue; thence
southerly along Central Avenue to its intersection with West Twenty-third
Street which is the point of beginning.
      8.   Downtown Neighborhood: Beginning at the intersection of White Street
and Eleventh Street, thence southerly along White Street to its intersection
with Fifth Street; thence easterly along Fifth Street to its intersection the
railroad tracks; thence easterly along the railroad tracks to their
intersection with the Mississippi River; thence southerly along the riverfront
across the Ice Harbor to the eastern terminus of First Street; thence westerly
along First Street to its intersection with U.S. Highway 61/151; thence
southerly along U.S. Highway 61/151 to its intersection with the Locust Street
Connector; thence westerly along the Locust Street Connector and across Locust
Street to Jones Street; thence westerly along Jones Street to its intersection
with Bissell Lane; thence northerly along Bissell Lane extended to First
Street; thence westerly along First Street to its intersection with Bluff
Street; thence northerly along Bluff Street to its intersection with Fifth
Street; thence easterly on Fifth Street to its intersection with Locust Street;
thence northerly on Locust Street to its intersection with Seventh Street;
thence westerly on Seventh Street to its intersection with Bluff Street; thence
southerly on Bluff Street to its intersection with Fifth Street; thence
westerly along Fifth Street to the bluff line; thence northerly along the bluff
line to Ninth Street; thence easterly along Ninth Street to its intersection
with Bluff Street; thence northerly along Bluff Street to its intersection with
Tenth Street; thence easterly along Tenth Street to its intersection with Iowa
Street; thence northerly along Iowa Street to its intersection with Fourteenth
Street; thence easterly along Fourteenth Street to its intersection with White
Street, thence southerly along White Street to its intersection with Thirteenth
Street, thence westerly along Thirteenth Street to its intersection with
Central Avenue, thence southerly along Central Avenue to its intersection with
Eleventh Street, thence easterly along Eleventh Street to its intersection with
White Street, which is the point of beginning. (2007 Code § 11-4)
      9.   Brewery Neighborhood: Lot 2-7 of Mineral Lot 322, Lot 1-1-3-8 of
Mineral Lot 322, and Lot 2-1 of Liebe's Subdivision No. 3 in the city of
Dubuque, Iowa. (Ord. 63-05, 11-21-2005)
   B.   Review By Historic Preservation Commission: Upon receiving an
application for a demolition permit for any building subject to this section,
the building official shall immediately notify the historic preservation
commission of such application. If the application is for any building with one
or more dwelling units, the building official shall also immediately notify the
housing and community development department. The applicant shall file the
information required in this section with the historic preservation commission
at the office of the planning services department by the application deadline
established by the commission. If the application is for any building with one
or more dwelling units, the planning services department shall provide the
filed information to the housing and community development department.
At its next regular meeting, the commission shall recommend to the city council
approval or denial of the application, or table the application for additional
information for a specified period not to exceed sixty (60) days from the date
of application with the commission. A failure of the commission to take action
on the application within the sixty (60) day period, unless the applicant
requests and the commission grants an extension of such time, shall constitute
commission approval thereof. The recommendation of the commission shall be
transmitted to the city clerk. The city clerk shall promptly transmit the
recommendation and the application to the city council for its consideration.
The commission shall review all of the information submitted by the applicant
and, if the application is for any building with one or more dwelling units,
all of the information submitted by the housing and community development
department, and shall make a determination as to the following:
      1.   Whether the building proposed for demolition has historic or
architectural significance to the community; and
      2.   Whether denial of the proposed demolition permit would prevent the
property owner from earning a reasonable economic return on the property.
If the commission finds that denial of the application would prevent the
property owner from earning a reasonable economic return on the property, or
that the building does not have any historical or architectural significance to
the community, the commission shall recommend approval of the application.
If the commission finds that denial of the application would not prevent the
property owner from earning a reasonable economic return on the property, and
that the building has historical or architectural significance to the
community, the commission shall recommend denial of the permit application.
If the applicant is the state of Iowa or a political subdivision of the state,
the commission shall also make a determination as to whether the denial of the
application would prevent the state or the political subdivision from
accomplishing its governmental functions as follows:
         a.   If the commission finds that denial of the application would
prevent the state or the political subdivision from accomplishing its
governmental functions, the commission shall recommend approval of the
application.
         b.   If the commission finds that denial of the application would not
prevent the state or the political subdivision from accomplishing its
governmental functions, the commission may recommend denial of the application.
   C.   Historic And Architectural Significance Guidelines And Review Criteria:
The report, "heritage of Dubuque" dated March 1974, and filed on record on
January 27, 1975, shall be considered as a comprehensive study for the
historical preservation of the city and as one of the guides to be considered
at such time as a demolition permit is applied for in a reference conservation
district. The city of Dubuque's historic property inventory and any subsequent
official architectural/historical surveys/evaluations and nominations to the
National Register of Historic Places prepared for any buildings located within
the neighborhoods described in subsection A of this section also shall be
considered as guidelines at such time.
In determining whether a building has historic or architectural significance,
the commission and the city council shall consider an application for a
demolition permit in accordance with the standards for review set forth in the
secretary of the interior's "standards for identification and evaluation", and
any subsequent revisions of these standards and guidelines by the secretary of
the interior. The commission and the city council shall also consider a
determination from the State Historical Society of Iowa as to the potential
eligibility for listing of the building proposed for demolition on the National
Register of Historic Places.
   D.   Economic Guidelines And Review Criteria: In determining whether to
recommend approval or denial of the application, the commission and the city
council may consider the information set forth in this subsection. The
commission and the city council may also investigate strategies which would
allow the property owner to earn a reasonable economic return on the property,
may solicit expert testimony, and may require that the applicant make
submissions concerning any or all of the following information:
      1.   A bid from a qualified contractor showing the cost of the proposed
demolition;
      2.   A report from a licensed engineer, architect or contractor with
experience in rehabilitation as to the structural integrity of any structure
that the applicant proposes to demolish;
      3.   An opinion of the market value and the appraised value of the
property by a realtor or appraiser: a) in its current condition, b) after
completion of the proposed demolition, c) after renovation of the existing
property for continued use, and d) all appraisals obtained within the last five
(5) years for the property;
      4.   An estimate from an architect, developer, real estate consultant,
appraiser or other real estate professional experienced in rehabilitation of
the cost: a) to perform the repairs identified by the building services
department and the housing and community development department if the
structure contains one or more dwelling units, and b) to rehabilitate the
structure;
      5.   The amount paid for the property, the date of purchase and the
person from whom the property was purchased, a description of the relationship,
if any, between the owner of record, the applicant and the person from whom the
property was purchased, and the terms of the purchase or proposed purchase,
including financing;
      6.   If the property is income producing, form 1040 schedule E or
equivalent for the previous two (2) years;
      7.   Itemized operating and maintenance expenses for the previous two (2)
years, and the depreciation deduction and annual cash flow before and after
debt service, if any, during the same period;
      8.   The name of all mortgagees and the balance of all mortgages or other
financing secured by the property and annual debt service, if any, for the
previous two (2) years;
      9.   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, the price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous five (5) years;
      10.   The assessed value of the property for the previous two (2)
assessment years;
      11.   The amount of real estate taxes assessed for the previous two (2)
assessment years and whether or not they have been paid;
      12.   Any other information considered necessary by the city council to
make a determination as to whether the property does or may yield a reasonable
economic return to the property owner(s);
      13.   A statement of the applicant's efforts to obtain financing, tax
incentives, preservation grants and other incentives sufficient to allow the
applicant to earn a reasonable economic return from the property in its current
condition, and after renovation of the existing property for continued use; and
      14.   A statement of the applicant's current maintenance and repair
activities.
If the application is for any building with one or more dwelling units, the
housing and community development department may also make submissions
concerning any or all of the above information, including strategies which
would allow the property owner to earn a reasonable economic return on the
property. The commission shall consider such information.
   E.   Guidelines And Review Criteria For Applications By State Of Iowa Or A
Political Subdivision Of State: In determining whether to recommend approval or
denial of the application, the commission and the city council may consider the
information set forth in this subsection and any other information the
commission or the city council considers relevant to balancing any conflicting
governmental interests.
The commission and the city council may require that the applicant make
submissions concerning any or all of the following information for the proposed
site and suitable alternative location(s):
      1.   Fair market value of property;
      2.   Estimate of the cost of the proposed demolition, including hazardous
material removal and remediation;
      3.   Fair market value of any property owned by the governmental body
that could be sold if that site is not chosen for the project;
      4.   Property tax impact of removing private property from the tax rolls
at the proposed location and all alternative locations;
      5.   Any other factors that contribute to making one location more
suitable than others for the proposed use;
      6.   Any other information appropriate to evaluating how all conflicting
governmental interests may be accommodated;
      7.   The need for the use in question, the effect on neighboring
property, and the environmental impact of the proposed use.
   F.   Action By City Council: At its next regular meeting following receipt
of the recommendation of the commission by the city clerk, the city council
shall hold a hearing on the application for a demolition permit and shall
approve, deny or withhold action on the application for a specified period not
to exceed ninety (90) days from the date of application to the building
services department, unless the applicant requests an extension of such time.
If the city council fails to take action to approve, deny or withhold action on
the application within the ninety (90) day period, or such extension as
requested by the applicant, the building official shall issue the permit
forthwith.
The city council may withhold action on the application to allow the city
council and the commission an opportunity to investigate the historical or
architectural value of the building to the community and to take such action as
may be appropriate to encourage its preservation. However, nothing in this
section shall authorize the withholding by the building official of a
demolition permit for more than ninety (90) days from the date of application
to the building services department, unless the applicant requests an
extension.
At the hearing, the city council shall consider the recommendation of the
commission, any information submitted to the commission by the applicant, any
information submitted to the city council by the applicant, and, if the
application is for any building with one or more dwelling units, any
information submitted by the housing and community development department.
If the city council finds that denial of the application would prevent the
property owner from earning a reasonable economic return on the property or
that the building does not have any historical or architectural significance to
the community, the city council shall approve the application.
If the city council finds that denial of the application would not prevent the
owner from earning a reasonable economic return on the property and that the
building has historical or architectural significance to the community, the
city council shall deny the application.
If the applicant is the state of Iowa or a political subdivision of the state,
the city council shall also make a determination as to whether the denial of
the application would prevent the state or the political subdivision from
accomplishing its governmental functions as follows:
      1.   If, after weighing the interests and attempting to accommodate all
conflicting governmental interests, the city council finds that denial of the
application would prevent the state or the political subdivision from
accomplishing its governmental functions, the city council shall approve the
application.
      2.   If, after weighing the interests and attempting to accommodate all
conflicting governmental interests, the city council finds that denial of the
application would not prevent the state or the political subdivision from
accomplishing its governmental functions, the city council may deny the
application.
If the city council denies the application, it shall state its findings in
writing and shall transmit a copy of such findings to the applicant.
   G.   Process For Establishment, Expansion Or Alteration Of Conservation
District: Any person may make a request to the city council for establishment,
expansion or alteration of a conservation district. The process for
establishment, expansion or alteration of a conservation district shall be as
follows:
      1.   A written request for the establishment, expansion or alteration of
a conservation district shall be submitted to the city clerk. At its next
regular meeting following receipt of the request by the city clerk, the city
council may approve or deny the request, set the request for consideration at a
subsequent meeting, set the request for a public hearing, or refer the request
to the commission for a recommendation before voting on the request.
If the city council considers the request at a public hearing, a notice of the
date, time and location of the hearing shall be published in accordance with
Iowa code section 362.3.
The city council may also direct the city clerk to mail a notice of the date,
time and location of the meeting at which the city council will consider the
request to the property owners of record in the district.
If the city council refers the request to the commission, the city council may
also direct the secretary of the commission to mail a notice of the date, time
and location of the meeting at which the commission will consider the request
to the property owners of record in the district.
      2.   At its next regular meeting, if a referral is made to it by the city
council, the commission shall review the request, and make a recommendation to
the city council to approve or deny the request, or to table the request for
additional information for a specified period not to exceed sixty (60) days. A
failure of the commission to take action on the request within the sixty (60)
day period, unless the applicant requests and the commission grants an
extension of such time, shall constitute commission approval thereof. The
recommendation of the commission shall be transmitted to the city clerk. The
city clerk shall promptly transmit the recommendation and the application to
the city council for its consideration.
In determining whether to recommend approval or denial of the request, the
commission shall consider whether the proposed conservation district, or the
expansion or alteration of the district, has historic or architectural
significance to the community.
      3.   At its next regular meeting following receipt of the recommendation
of the commission by the city clerk, the city council shall approve or deny the
request. (2007 Code § 11-4)
   H.   Demolition By Neglect Prohibited: The owner of a building or structure
in any conservation district shall preserve and keep in good repair all of the
exterior portions of such buildings and structures and all interior portions
thereof whose maintenance is necessary to prevent deterioration and decay of
any exterior portion. This shall be in addition to all other provisions of law
requiring property and improvements to be kept in good repair. The owner shall
repair the building or structure to correct any of the following defects as
determined by the city's building official:
      1.   Parts which are improperly or inadequately attached so that they may
fall and injure persons or property;
      2.   A deteriorated or inadequate foundation;
      3.   Defective or deteriorated floor supports or floor supports that are
insufficient to carry the loads imposed;
      4.   Walls, partitions, or other vertical supports that split, lean,
list, or buckle due to defect or deterioration or are insufficient to carry the
load imposed;
      5.   Ceilings, roofs, ceiling or roof supports, or other horizontal
members which sag, split, or buckle, due to defect or deterioration or are
insufficient to support the load imposed;
      6.   Fireplaces and chimneys which list, bulge, or settle due to defect
or deterioration or are of insufficient size or strength to carry the loads
imposed;
      7.   Deteriorated, crumbling, or loose exterior stucco or mortar;
      8.   Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs,
foundations, or floors, including broken windows and doors;
      9.   Defective or lack of weather protection for exterior wall coverings,
foundations, or floors, including broken windows and doors;
      10.   Any default, defect, or condition in the structure which renders it
structurally unsafe or not properly watertight;
      11.   Deterioration of any exterior feature so as to create a hazardous
condition which could make demolition necessary for the public safety;
      12.   Deterioration or removal after the effective date hereof of any
unique architectural feature which would detract from the original
architectural style;
      13.   Deterioration of exterior stairs, porches, handrails, window and
door frames, cornices, wall facings, and architectural details that cause
instability, loss of shape and form, or crumbling;
      14.   Rotting, holes, and other forms of decay; or
      15.   Leaving a building or structure open or vulnerable to vandalism,
decay by the elements, or animal and/or insect infestation. (Ord. 37-09, 8-3-
2009)
14-1A-5: EXTERIOR SECURITY AND APPEARANCE OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Application: The requirements of this section shall apply to any
windows or doors boarded up after March 1, 2011.
   B.   Building Openings: No building openings, except basement windows, in a
building with any lot frontage on a public street may be boarded or covered in
whole or in part. Doors and windows located on a facade of a building with lot
frontage on a public street must be properly maintained, painted, and trimmed
in the same manner as if the building was occupied. All other unsecured
exterior building openings must be secured with three-eighths inch (3/8")
plywood and nailed every eight inches (8") with #6 box nails.
On the first floor of any such building, the plywood must be cut to fit the
opening and must not be pieced. On the second floor or above, the plywood may
be pieced provided it is adequately supported behind the seam. Building
openings must be covered from the outside and the plywood painted to blend in
with the remaining exterior color of the building.
   C.   Exception:
      1.   Temporary Boarding: Windows and doors may be boarded temporarily
only if a permit has been obtained from the city manager or city manager's
designee for the temporarily boarded windows and doors. A temporary permit may
be issued upon submission of a satisfactory plan to the city manager or city
manager's designee which outlines bringing the windows and doors into
compliance with this section. "Temporary" for purposes of this section means
less than ninety (90) days. One extension of thirty (30) days may be granted by
the city manager or city manager's designee. Further extensions may be granted
at the discretion of the city manager.
   D.   Appeal Rights:
      1.   A property owner aggrieved or adversely affected by a decision of
the city manager's designee under this section may apply to the city manager
for review of such decision by filing a written notice of appeal with the city
manager within thirty (30) days of the date of the decision appealed from. The
notice of appeal must include the following:
         a.   Name and address of person appealing (appellant).
         b.   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the
decision appealed from, together with any material facts claimed to support the
contentions of the appellant.
         c.   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought, and the reasons why it is claimed the protested decision appealed from
should be reversed or modified.
         d.   The signatures of all parties named as persons appealing and
their official mailing address.
      2.   The city manager shall review the decision appealed from and any
information provided by the appellant and issue a written decision within
thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision shall be
mailed to the appellant. The city manager may affirm, reverse, or modify the
decision of the city manager's designee.
   E.   Inventory And Review: An inventory of buildings with boarded up windows
and doors shall be completed by December 31, 2010, and maintained by the city
manager. The inventory shall be updated every twenty four (24) months and
provided for review to the city council.
   F.   Historic Preservation Requirements: None of the provisions of this
section shall be interpreted to reduce or modify the requirements for review
and approval by the historic preservation commission required under this code
for properties located within a historic preservation or conservation district.
(Ord. 16-11, 2-22-2011)
14-1A-6: BUILDING CODE ADVISORY AND APPEAL BOARD:
   A.   Board Created: There is hereby created the building code advisory and
appeal board.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the board is to review proposed code adoptions
and amendments for recommendation to the city council and to serve as an appeal
body for the decisions of the code official.
   C.   Internal Organization And Rules: The board may adopt rules and
regulations to govern its organizational procedures as may be necessary and
which are not in conflict with this code or the Iowa Code.
   D.   Procedures For Operation: All administrative, personnel, accounting,
budgetary, and procurement policies of the city govern the board in all its
operations.
   E.   Membership:
      1.   The board comprises seven (7) residents of the city, appointed by
the city council.
      2.   Special experience and training qualifications:
         a.   One member must be a residential construction professional.
         b.   One member must be a commercial construction professional.
         c.   One member must be an electrical construction professional.
         d.   One member must be a plumbing construction professional.
         e.   One member must be a heating, ventilation, and air conditioning
(HVAC) construction professional.
         f.   Two (2) multi-disciplinary representatives, which could be an
architect, engineer, building designer, or general construction professional.
      3.   Alternates: Alternate representatives shall be appointed for the
residential construction professional, commercial construction professional,
electrical construction professional, plumbing construction professional, and
HVAC construction professional positions and shall be called upon to
participate in the event of a conflict of interest or unavailability of the
primary appointee.
   F.   Oath: Each person, upon appointment to the board, must execute an oath
of office at the first meeting of the board following the appointment or at the
City Clerk’s Office any time prior to the first meeting of the board.
   G.   Terms: The term of office for members of the board is three (3) years
or until such member's successor is appointed and qualified.
   H.   Vacancies: Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original
appointments.
   I.   Officers/Organization: The board must choose annually a Chairperson and
Vice Chairperson, each to serve a term of one (1) year. The code official or
the code official's designee shall serve as secretary of the board. The board
must fill a vacancy among its officers for the remainder of the officer's
unexpired term.
   J.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The board must meet upon call of the Chairperson,
the City Manager, or the City Manager's designee.
      2.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson
or at the written request of a majority of the members.
      3.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance
with the Iowa Open Meetings Law.
      4.   Appeals: The board shall meet upon notice from the Chairman, within
not less than ten (10) days and not more than ninety (90) days of the filing of
an appeal, at stated periodic meetings, or at the written request of a majority
of the members.
      5.   Attendance:
         a.   In the event a member of the board has been absent for three (3)
or more consecutive meetings of the board, without being excused by the
Chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the board to recommend to the
City Council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement appointed.
         b.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
      6.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings
of the board must be filed with the City Council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the board, or by the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting, whichever is later.
      7.   Quorum: Four (4) members of the board must be in attendance to
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. An affirmative vote of a
majority of the members present and voting is necessary for the adoption of any
motion or resolution.
   K.   Compensation: Members serve without compensation, provided that they
may receive reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on
official board business within the limits established in the City
administrative policies and budget.
   L.   Removal: The City Council may remove any member for cause upon written
charges and after a public hearing.
   M.   Powers: The board has the following powers, duties, and
responsibilities:
      1.   To review proposed code adoptions and amendments for recommendation
to the City Council.
      2.   To serve as an appeal body for the decisions of the Code official
based upon the codes adopted by the City under Title 14 of this code.
      3.   When hearing an appeal:
         a.   The board may reverse or modify a decision of the code official
only upon finding that:
            (1)   The true intent of the applicable code or the rules legally
adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted by the Code official; or
            (2)   The provisions of the applicable code do not fully apply; or
            (3)   An equal or better form of construction has been proposed and
is appropriate.
         b.   The board shall require sufficient evidence or proof be submitted
to substantiate any claims that an equal or better form of construction is
appropriate.
         c.   In order to make a finding that an equal or better form of
construction is appropriate the board must find the proposed material or method
of construction is satisfactory for the use intented and complies with the
provisions of this Code, and that the material, method, or work offered is, for
the purpose intended, at least equivalent to that prescribed by this Code in
suitability, strength, effectiveness, durability, fire resistance, and safety.
         d.   All appeal hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the
procedures specified in this Code.
         e.   The board shall have no authority relative to interpretation of
the administrative provisions of this Code nor shall the board be empowered to
waive requirements of this Code.
   N.   Application For Appeal:
      1.   Any person affected by a decision of the code official or a notice
or order issued under this Code shall have the right to appeal, provided a
written application for appeal is filed within twenty (20) days after the
decision, notice, or order was served.
      2.   An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an
equal or better form of construction is proposed. The board may find a proposed
form of construction to be equal or better.
   O.   Disqualification Of Member: A member shall not hear an appeal in which
that member has a personal, professional, or financial interest.
   P.   Postponed Hearing: Either the City or the appellant may request a
postponement of a hearing subject to the approval of the Code official. In no
event may a postponement exceed ninety (90) days beyond the date of the appeal.
(Ord. 21-16, 6-6-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; amd. Ord. 44-20, 12-7-2020; Ord. 25-24,
6-17-2024)
ARTICLE B. RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
14-1B-1: International Residential Code Adopted
14-1B-2: International Residential Code Amendments
14-1B-1: INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED:
Except as hereinafter added to, deleted, modified, or amended, there is hereby
adopted by reference as the residential building code of the City that certain
building code known as the International Residential Code, 2021 edition, and as
published by the International Code Council, and the provisions of such
building code shall be controlling in the construction, remodeling,
maintenance, repair, and reconstruction of one- and two-family residential
buildings and in all matters covered by such building code within the corporate
limits of the City and shall be known as the “Dubuque Residential Building
Code”. A copy of the International Residential Code, 2021 edition, as adopted,
shall be on file in the Office of the City Clerk for public inspection. (Ord.
41-19, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 22-23, 5-15-2023)
14-1B-2: INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following additions, deletions, modifications, or amendments of the
International Residential Code, 2021 edition, adopted in section
14-1B-1 of this article to read as follows:
Section R101.1 Title. Amended to read:
   R101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the Dubuque Residential
Building Code of the City of Dubuque, and shall be cited as such and will be
referred to herein as “this code.”
Section R103.1 Creation Of Enforcement Agency. Amended to read:
   R103.1. Creation Of Enforcement Agency. There is hereby established in the
city the Inspection & Construction Services Division, which shall be under the
jurisdiction of the code official.
Section R105.5 Expiration. Amended to read:
   R105.5. Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work
on the site authorized by such permit is completed within one year after its
issuance. The code official is authorized to grant, in writing, one or more
extensions of time, for periods not to exceed 180 days for each such approved
extension. The extensions shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause
demonstrated.
Section R112.1 through R112.4 replaced with City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances
section 14-1A-6.
Section R113 Violations. Amended to read:
   R113. Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation
to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert,
demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or structure or cause or
permit the same to be done in violation of this code.
   The doing of any act, or the omission of any act, declared to be unlawful by
this code, or any code or ordinance herein adopted by reference shall be deemed
a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
such unlawful act is committed, continued, or permitted to continue and upon
conviction shall be punishable as provided in title 1 of the City Code of
Ordinances. The penalty herein provided shall be cumulative with and in
addition to the revocation, cancellation, or forfeiture of any license or
permit elsewhere in this code provided for violation thereof.
   A notice of violation is not required in every situation and city staff may
issue a municipal infraction without previously issuing a notice of violation.
Section R202 Definitions. Amendment to “building official” and inclusion of
“code official”:
   Building Official. See “Code Official”.
   Code Official. The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of this code, or a duly authorized
representative. Any reference to building official in this code refers to code
official.
Section R310.1. Emergency escape and rescue opening required. Amended to Read:
   R310.1. Emergency escape and rescue opening required. Basements, habitable
attics and every sleeping room shall have not less than one operable emergency
escape and rescue opening. Where basements contain one or more sleeping rooms,
an emergency escape and rescue opening shall be required in each sleeping room.
Emergency escape and rescue openings shall open directly into a public way, or
to a yard or court having a minimum width of 36 inches (914 mm) that opens to a
public way.
   Exceptions:
      1.   Storm shelters and basements used only to house mechanical equipment
not exceeding a total floor area of 200 square feet (18.58 m2).
      2.   Where the dwelling unit or townhouse unit is equipped with an
automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section P2904 of this
code, sleeping rooms in basements shall not be required to have emergency
escape and rescue openings provided that the basement has one of the following:
      2.1.   One means of egress complying with Section R311 and one emergency
escape and rescue opening.
      2.2.   Two means of egress complying with Section R311.
      3.   A yard shall not be required to open directly into a public way
where the yard opens to an unobstructed path from the yard to the public way.
Such path shall have a width of not less than 36 inches (914 mm).
      4.   Basements without bedrooms that provide a second stairway that
terminates in a room separate from the first stairway.
Section R310.5 Replacement windows for emergency escape and rescue openings.
Amended to read:
   R310.5 Replacement windows for emergency escape and rescue openings shall be
permitted to have minimum dimensions in accordance with Sections R310.5.1
through R310.5.3 of this code, provided the replacement window meets the
following conditions:
      1.   The replacement window is the manufacturer’s largest standard size
window that will fit within the existing frame or existing rough opening. The
replacement window shall be of a style that provides for the greatest net clear
window opening area in the existing frame or existing rough opening.
      2.   The replacement window is not part of a change of occupancy.
R310.5.1 Minimum size. Emergency escape and rescue openings shall have a net
clear opening of not less than 4.0 square feet (0.37 m2).
R310.5.2 Minimum dimensions. The minimum net clear opening height dimension
shall be 22 inches (558 mm). The minimum net clear opening width dimension
shall be 20 inches (508 mm). The net clear opening dimensions shall be the
result of normal operation of the opening.
R310.5.3 Maximum height from floor. Emergency escape and rescue openings shall
have the bottom of the clear opening not greater than 48 inches (1219 mm) above
the floor.
   Exception: An existing finished sill height may exceed 48 inches (1219 mm)
above the floor if the following conditions are met:
      a.   A platform capable of supporting a live load of 300 pounds shall be
permanently affixed at the interior of the structure. This platform shall be no
lower than 20 inches (508 mm) above the floor and no higher than 36 inches (914
mm) above the floor. The distance from the platform to the bottom of the clear
opening shall not exceed 36 inches (914 mm). The platform shall extend outward
from the wall a minimum of 18 inches (457 mm) and shall be a minimum of 36
inches (914 mm) wide or as wide as the clear openable width of the window,
whichever is greater, or another approved method/platform.
      b.   The building is equipped with smoke alarms installed in accordance
with section R314 of this code.
Section R313 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems. Deleted.
R314.6 Power source. Amended to read:
   Section 314.6 Power source.
   314.6.1 General
   Smoke alarms shall receive their primary power from the building wiring
where such wiring is served from a commercial source and, where primary power
is interrupted, shall receive power from a battery. Wiring shall be permanent
and without a disconnecting switch other than those required for overcurrent
protection.
   Exceptions:
      1.   Smoke alarms shall be permitted to be solely battery powered by a
nonremovable, nonreplaceable battery that powers the alarm for at least ten
years, where installed in buildings without commercial power.
      2.   Smoke alarms installed in accordance with Section R314.2.2 shall be
permitted to be battery powered by a nonremovable, nonreplaceable battery that
powers the alarm for at least ten years.
Section N1101.14 (R401.3) Certificate (Mandatory). Deleted.
Section N1102.4.1.2 (R402.4.1.2) Testing. Deleted.
Section N1103.3.4 (R403.3.4) Duct Leakage (Prescriptive). Deleted.
Section N1103.3.5 (R403.3.5) Building Cavities (Mandatory). Amended to read:
N1103.3.7 (R403.3.7). Building Cavities (Mandatory). Exterior building framing
cavities shall not be used as ducts or plenums.
Section P2904 Dwelling Unit Fire Sprinkler Systems. Deleted.
Chapter 29. Deleted.
Chapter 30 Sanitary Drainage. Deleted.
Part VIII “Electrical” is hereby amended by deleting chapters 34-43 in their
entirety.
Appendix A - Do not adopt
Appendix B - Do not adopt
Appendix C - Do not adopt
Appendix D - Do not adopt
Appendix E - Do not adopt
Appendix F - Do not adopt
Appendix G - Do not adopt
Appendix H - Do not adopt
Appendix I - Do not adopt
Appendix J - Do not adopt
Appendix K - Do not adopt
Appendix L - Do not adopt
Appendix M - Do not adopt
Appendix N - Do not adopt
Appendix O - Do not adopt
Appendix P - Do not adopt
Appendix Q - Adopt
Appendix R - Do not adopt
Appendix S - Do not adopt
Appendix T - Do not adopt
(Ord. 41-19, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 22-23, 5-15-2023; Ord. 51-24, 9-3-2024)
(Ord. 41-19, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 22-23, 5-15-2023; Ord. 51-24, 9-3-2024)
ARTICLE C. ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
14-1C-1: International Energy Conservation Code Adopted
14-1C-2: International Energy Conservation Code Amendments
14-1C-1: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ADOPTED:
Except as hereinafter added to, deleted, modified, or amended, there is hereby
adopted by reference as the energy code of the city that certain code known as
the international energy conservation code, 2015 edition, and as published by
the International Code Council, Inc., and the thermal efficiency provisions of
such code shall be controlling in the construction of all new construction and
any renovation project that effects the building thermal envelope of a
structure within the corporate limits of the city and the lighting efficiency
provisions of such code shall be controlling in the new construction of
buildings which are open to the general public during normal business hours and
shall be known as the "Dubuque energy code". A copy of the international energy
conservation code, 2015 edition, as adopted, shall be on file in the office of
the city clerk for public inspection. (Ord. 22-16, 6-6-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
14-1C-2: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following additions, deletions, modifications, or amendments of the
international energy conservation code, 2015 edition, adopted in section
14-1C-1 of this article to read as follows:
Section 109.1 through 109.3 replaced with city of Dubuque code of ordinances
section
14-1A-6.
Section 202 General Definitions. Amended to read:
Section 202 General Definitions.
Above-Grade Wall. A wall more than 50 percent above grade and enclosing
conditioned space. This includes between- floor spandrels, peripheral edges of
floors, roof and basement knee walls, dormer walls, gable end walls, walls
enclosing a mansard roof and skylight shafts.
Accessible. Admitting close approach as a result of not being guarded by locked
doors, elevation or other effective means (see "Readily Accessible").
Addition. An extension or increase in the conditioned space floor area or
height of a building or structure.
Air Barrier. Material(s) assembled and joined together to provide a barrier to
air leakage through the building envelope. An air barrier may be a single
material or a combination of materials.
Alteration. Any construction or renovation to an existing structure other than
repair or addition that requires a permit. Also, a change in a mechanical
system that involves an extension, addition or change to the arrangement, type
or purpose of the original installation that requires a permit.
Approved. Approval by the code official as a result of investigation and tests
conducted by him or her, or by reason of accepted principles or tests by
nationally recognized organizations.
Automatic. Self-acting, operating by its own mechanism when actuated by some
impersonal influence, as, for example, a change in current strength, pressure,
temperature or mechanical configuration (see "Manual").
Basement Wall. A wall 50 percent or more below grade and enclosing conditioned
space.
Building. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.
Building Official. See "Code Official".
Building Thermal Envelope. The basement walls, exterior walls, floor, roof, and
any other building element that enclose conditioned space. This boundary also
includes the boundary between conditioned space and any exempt or unconditioned
space.
C-Factor (Thermal Conductance). The coefficient of heat transmission (surface
to surface) through a building component or assembly, equal to the time rate of
heat flow per unit area and the unit temperature difference between the warm
side and cold side surfaces (Btu/h ft2 x oF) [W/(m2 x K)].
Code Official. The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of this code, or a duly authorized
representative. Any reference to "building official" in this code refers to
"code official".
Commercial Building. For this code, all buildings that are not included in the
definition of "Residential Buildings."
Conditioned Floor Area. The horizontal projection of the floors associated with
the conditioned space.
Conditioned Space. An area or room within a building being heated or cooled,
containing uninsulated ducts, or with a fixed opening directly into an adjacent
conditioned space.
Crawl Space Wall. The opaque portion of a wall that encloses a crawl space and
is partially or totally below grade.
Curtain Wall. Fenestration products used to create an external nonload-bearing
wall that is designed to separate the exterior and interior environments.
Daylight Zone.
      1.   Under Skylights. The area under skylights whose horizontal
dimension, in each direction, is equal to the skylight dimension in that
direction plus either the floor-to ceiling height or the dimension to a ceiling
height opaque partition, or one-half the distance to adjacent skylights or
vertical fenestration, whichever is least.
      2.   Adjacent To Vertical Fenestration. The area adjacent to vertical
fenestration which receives daylight through the fenestration. For purposes of
this definition and unless more detailed analysis is provided, the daylight
zone depth is assumed to extend into the space a distance of 15 feet (4572 mm)
or to the nearest ceiling height opaque partition, whichever is less. The
daylight zone width is assumed to be the width of the window plus 2 feet (610
mm) on each side, or the window width plus the distance to an opaque partition,
or the window width plus one-half the distance to adjacent skylight or vertical
fenestration, whichever is least.
Demand Control Ventilation (DCV). A ventilation system capability that provides
for the automatic reduction of outdoor air intake below design rates when the
actual occupancy of spaces served by the system is less than design occupancy.
Duct. A tube or conduit utilized for conveying air. The air passages of self-
contained systems are not to be construed as air ducts.
Duct System. A continuous passageway for the transmission of air that, in
addition to ducts, includes duct fittings, dampers, plenums, fans and accessory
air- handling equipment and appliances.
Dwelling Unit. A single unit providing complete independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
Economizer, Air. A duct and damper arrangement and automatic control system
that allows a cooling system to supply outside air to reduce or eliminate the
need for mechanical cooling during mild or cold weather.
Economizer, Water. A system where the supply air of a cooling system is cooled
indirectly with water that is itself cooled by heat or mass transfer to the
environment without the use of mechanical cooling.
Energy Analysis. A method for estimating the annual energy use of the proposed
design and standard reference design based on estimates of energy use.
Energy Cost. The total estimated annual cost for purchased energy for the
building functions regulated by this code, including applicable demand charges.
Energy Recovery Ventilation System. Systems that employ air-to-air heat
exchangers to recover energy from exhaust air for the purpose of preheating,
precooling, humidifying or dehumidifying outdoor ventilation air prior to
supplying the air to a space, either directly or as part of an HVAC system.
Energy Simulation Tool. An approved software program or calculation-based
methodology that projects the annual energy use of a building.
Entrance Door. Fenestration products used for ingress, egress and access in
nonresidential buildings, including, but not limited to, exterior entrances
that utilize latching hardware and automatic closers and contain over 50-
percent glass specifically designed to withstand heavy use and possibly abuse.
Exterior Wall. Walls including both above-grade walls and basement walls.
F-Factor. The perimeter heat loss factor for slab-on- grade floors (Btu/h x ft
x OF) [W/(m x K)].
Fan Brake Horsepower (BHP). The horsepower delivered to the fan's shaft. Brake
horsepower does not include the mechanical drive losses (belts, gears, etc.).
Fan System BHP. The sum of the fan brake horsepower of all fans that are
required to operate at fan system design conditions to supply air from the
heating or cooling source to the conditioned spacers and return it to the
source or exhaust it to the outdoors.
Fan System Design Conditions. Operating conditions that can be expected to
occur during normal system operation that result in the highest supply fan
airflow rate to conditioned spaces served by the system.
Fan System Motor Nameplate HP. The sum of the motor nameplate horsepower of all
fans that are required to operate at design conditions to supply air from the
heating or cooling source to the conditioned spacers and return it to the
source or exhaust it to the outdoors.
Fenestration. Skylights, roof windows, vertical windows (fixed or moveable),
opaque doors, glazed doors, glazed block and combination opaque/glazed doors.
Fenestration includes products with glass and nonglass glazing materials.
Gambling Facility - Back Of House. Areas of a gambling structure or moored
barge and associated hotel, meeting, entertainment or recreation spaces that
are only accessible to authorized personnel and not to the general public and
guests, such as employee and delivery entrances, employee lounges and dining
areas, administrative offices and meeting rooms, maintenance areas, storage
rooms, service corridors, etc.
Gambling Facility - Front Of House. Areas of gambling structure or moored barge
and associated hotel, meeting, entertainment or recreation spaces that are
physically accessible or visible to the general public and guests, such as the
exterior facades, landscaping, entries, lobbies, guestroom corridors, porte
cocheres, retail shops, restaurants, theaters, gaming areas, guest conference
and meeting rooms, other areas of entertainment or recreation, etc.
Heat Trap. An arrangement of piping and fittings, such as elbows, or a
commercially available heat trap that prevents thermosyphoning of hot water
during standby periods.
Heated Slab. Slab-on-grade construction in which the heating elements, hydronic
tubing, or hot air distribution system is in contact with, or placed within or
under, the slab.
Humidistat. A regulatory device, actuated by changes in humidity, used for
automatic control of relative humidity.
IDGH-Efficacy Lamps. Compact fluorescent lamps, T-8 or smaller diameter linear
fluorescent lamps, or lamps with a minimum efficacy of:
      1.   60 lumens per watt for lamps over 40 watts,
      2.   50 lumens per watt for lamps over 15 watts to 40 watts, and
      3.   40 lumens per watt for lamps 15 watts or less.
Infiltration. The uncontrolled inward air leakage into a building caused by the
pressure effects of wind or the effect of differences in the indoor and outdoor
air density or both.
Insulating Sheathing. An insulating board with a core material having a minimum
R-value of R-2.
Kitchen Display. A substantially open cooking and food preparation facility,
located in the front-of-house dining room/lounge area specifically for the
purpose of demonstrating the function of food and drink preparation.
Labeled. Equipment, materials or products to which have been affixed a label,
seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally recognized testing
laboratory, inspection agency or other organization concerned with product
evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the production of the above-
labeled items and whose labeling indicates either that the equipment, material
or product meets identified standards or has been tested and found suitable for
a specified purpose.
Listed. Equipment, materials, products or services included in a list published
by an organization acceptable to the code official and concerned with
evaluation of products or services that maintains periodic inspection of
production of listed equipment or materials or periodic evaluation of services
and whose listing states either that the equipment, material, product or
service meets identified standards or has been tested and found suitable for a
specified purpose.
Low-Voltage Lighting. Lighting equipment powered through a transformer such as
a cable conductor, a rail conductor and track lighting.
Manual. Capable of being operated by personal intervention (see "Automatic").
Nameplate Horsepower. The nominal motor horsepower rating stamped on the motor
nameplate.
Proposed Design. A description of the proposed building used to estimate annual
energy use for determining compliance based on total building performance.
R-Value (Thermal Resistance). The inverse of the time rate of heat flow through
a body from one of its bounding surfaces to the other surface for a unit
temperature difference between the two surfaces, under steady state conditions,
per unit area (h . ftz °FIBtu) [(m2K)/W].
Readily Accessible. Capable of being reached quickly for operation, renewal or
inspection without requiring those to whom ready access is requisite to climb
over or remove obstacles or to resort to portable ladders or access equipment
(see "Accessible").
Repair. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building.
Residential Building. For this code, includes R-3 buildings, as well as R-2 and
R-4 buildings three stories or less in height above grade.
Roof Assembly. A system designed to provide weather protection and resistance
to design loads. The system consists of a roof covering and roof deck or a
single component serving as both the roof covering and the roof deck. A roof
assembly includes the roof covering, underlayment, roof deck, insulation, vapor
retarder and interior finish.
Screw Lamp Holders. A lamp base that requires a screw-in- type lamp, such as a
compact-fluorescent, incandescent, or tungsten-halogen bulb.
Service Water Heating. Supply of hot water for purposes other than comfort
heating.
Skylight. Glass or other transparent or translucent glazing material installed
at a slope of 15 degrees (0.26 rad) or more from vertical. Glazing material in
skylights, including unit skylights, solariums, sunrooms, roofs and sloped
walls is included in this definition.
Sleeping Unit. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also include
permanent provisions for living, eating, and either sanitation or kitchen
facilities but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a dwelling
unit are not sleeping units.
Solar Heat Gain Coefficient (SHGC). The ratio of the solar heat gain entering
the space through the fenestration assembly to the incident solar radiation.
Solar heat gain includes directly transmitted solar heat and absorbed solar
radiation which is then reradiated, conducted or convected into the space.
Standard Reference Design. A version of the proposed design that meets the
minimum requirements of this code and is used to determine the maximum annual
energy use requirement for compliance based on total building performance.
Storefront. A nonresidential system of doors and windows mulled as a composite
fenestration structure that has been designed to resist heavy use. Storefront
systems include, but are not limited to, exterior fenestration systems that
span from the floor level or above to the ceiling of the same story on
commercial buildings.
Sunroom. A one-story structure attached to a dwelling with a glazing area in
excess of 40 percent of the gross area of the structure's exterior walls and
roof.
Thermal Isolation. Physical and space conditioning separation from conditioned
space(s). The conditioned space(s) shall be controlled as separate zones for
heating and cooling or conditioned by separate equipment.
Thermostat. An automatic control device used to maintain temperature at a fixed
or adjustable set point.
U-Factor (Thermal Transmittance). The coefficient of heat transmission (air to
air) through a building component or assembly, equal to the time rate of heat
flow per unit area and unit temperature difference between the warm side and
cold side airfilms (Btu/h . ft2 . OF) (W/(m2 . K»).
Ventilation. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
Ventilation Air. That portion of supply air that comes from outside (outdoors)
plus any recirculated air that has been treated to maintain the desired quality
of air within a designated space.
Zone. A space or group of spaces within a building with heating or cooling
requirements that are sufficiently similar so that desired conditions can be
maintained throughout using a single controlling device.
R402.4.1.2 Testing. Deleted.
R403.2 Hot Water Boiler Outdoor Temperature Setback. Deleted.
R403.3.3 Duct Testing (Mandatory). Deleted.
R403.3.5 Building Cavities (Mandatory). Deleted.
C501.4 Compliance. Amended to read:
C501.4 Compliance.
Alterations, repairs, additions and changes of occupancy to, or relocation of,
existing buildings and structures shall comply with the provisions for
alterations, repairs, additions and changes of occupancy or relocation,
respectively, in the following international codes adopted by the city of
Dubuque in title 14, chapter 1: international building code, international fire
code, international fuel gas code, international mechanical code, international
plumbing code, international property maintenance code, as well as NFPA 70.
(Ord. 22-16, 6-6-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
ARTICLE D. ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
14-1D-1: National Electrical Code Adopted
14-1D-2: National Electrical Code Amendments
14-1D-3: Electrical Code Review And Appeals
14-1D-1: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
Except as hereinafter added to, deleted, modified or amended, there is hereby
adopted by reference as the Electrical Code of the City that certain Electrical
Code known as the National Electrical Code, 2020 edition, as prepared and
edited by the National Fire Protection Agency, Quincy, Massachusetts, and the
provisions of such Electrical Code shall be controlling in the supply of
electricity and in the installation, maintenance and use of all electrical
conductors and equipment and installation of optical fiber cable within the
corporate limits of the City, and shall be known as the Dubuque Electrical
Code. A copy of the National Electrical Code, 2020 edition, as adopted, shall
be on file in the Office of the City Clerk for public inspection. (Ord. 39-19,
9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 48-21, 12-20-2021)
14-1D-2: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
The National Electrical Code adopted by section
14-1D-1 of this article is hereby amended as follows:
   Article 80.
   80-1. Title. These regulations shall be known as the Dubuque electrical
code, cited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
   80-2. Application To Existing Electrical Systems And Equipment.
      (a)   Additions, Alterations, Or Repairs. Additions, alterations, or
repairs may be made to any electrical system and equipment without requiring
the existing electrical system and equipment to comply with all the
requirements of this code, provided the addition, alteration, or repair
conforms to that required for a new electrical system and equipment and
provided further that no hazard to life, health, or safety will be created by
such additions, alterations, or repairs.
      Minor additions, alterations, and repairs to existing electrical systems
and equipment may be made in accordance with the law in effect at the time the
original installation was made, when approved by the code official.
      (b)   Existing Installations. Electrical systems and equipment lawfully
in existence at the time of the adoption of this code may have their use,
maintenance, or repair continued if the use, maintenance, or repair is in
accordance with the original design and no hazard to life, health, or property
has been created by such electrical system and equipment.
      (c)   Changes In Building Occupancy. Electrical systems and equipment
which are a part of any building or structure undergoing a change in use or
occupancy, as defined in the Dubuque building code, shall comply with the
requirements of this code which are applicable to the new use or occupancy.
      (d)   Maintenance. All electrical systems and equipment, both existing
and new, and all parts thereof shall be maintained in a proper operating
condition in accordance with the original design and in a safe and hazard-free
condition. Any devices or safeguards which are required by this code shall be
maintained in conformance with this code. The owner or designated agent shall
be responsible for the maintenance of the electrical system. To determine
compliance with this subsection, the code official may cause any electrical
system to be re-inspected.
      (e)   Moved Building. Electrical systems and equipment which are a part
of buildings or structures moved into or within this jurisdiction shall comply
with the provisions of this code for new installations.
   80-3. Definitions, General. For the purpose of these provisions, certain
terms, phrases, words, and their derivatives shall be construed as specified in
this section. Where terms are not defined, they shall have their ordinarily
accepted meanings within the context with which they are used. Webster’s third
new international dictionary of the English language, unabridged, copyright
1981, shall be considered as providing ordinarily accepted meanings. Words used
in the singular include the plural and the plural the singular. Words used in
masculine gender include the feminine and the feminine the masculine.
      Approved agency. An established and recognized agency regularly engaged
in conducting tests or furnishing inspection services, when such agency has
been approved by the code official.
      Approved, as to materials, equipment, and method of construction.
Approval by the code official as the result of investigation and tests
conducted or by reasons of accepted principles or tests by recognized
authorities, technical, or scientific organizations.
      Building code. The international building code promulgated by the
International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by this jurisdiction.
      Chief electrical inspector. The person providing expertise for the code
official in the area of electrical regulations.
      Code enforcement agency. The department, division, or agency of this
jurisdiction charged with the function of code enforcement and shall be under
the administration and operational control of the code official.
      Code official. The officer charged with the administration and
enforcement of this code, or duly authorized representatives, and is the
authority having jurisdiction for this code.
      Commercial installation. An installation intended for commerce, but does
not include a residential installation.
      Dubuque board. The city of Dubuque Building Code Advisory and Appeal
board.
      Electrical code. The national electrical code promulgated by the National
Fire Protection Association, as adopted by this jurisdiction.
      Electrical equipment. All electrical materials, wiring, conductors,
fittings, devices, appliances, fixtures, signs, and apparatus or parts thereof.
      Electrical work. All installations, alterations, repairs, removals,
renewals, replacements, connections, disconnections, and maintenance of all
electrical equipment except as otherwise noted.
      Firewall. The same as an area separation wall as used in the building
code.
      In-house electricians. Not for hire by the general public.
         (i)   In-house electricians are required to carry an Iowa Master’s
level license in order to obtain a permit.
         (ii)   In-house electricians can only work on the premises for which
the licensee is directly employed and any other persons doing electrical work
under the supervision of the in-house electricians must also be registered with
the state of Iowa as an apprentice, journeyman, or Master A or B electrician.
      Industrial installation. An installation intended for use in the
manufacture or processing of products involving systematic labor or habitual
employment and includes installations in which agricultural or other products
are habitually or customarily processed or stored for others, either by buying
or reselling on a fee basis.
      Inspector. A person certified as an electrical inspector upon such
reasonable conditions as may be adopted by the board.
      Listed and listing. Equipment and materials which are shown in a list
published by an approved testing agency, qualified and equipped for
experimental testing, and maintaining an adequate periodic inspection of
current productions and whose listing states that the equipment complies with
nationally recognized safety standards.
      Multiple occupancy building. A building having more than one (1) tenant
and may be of single or mixed use groups as classified by the building code.
      New electrical installation. The installation of electrical wiring,
apparatus, and equipment for light, heat, power, and other purposes.
      Occupancy. The purpose for which a building, or part thereof, is used or
intended to be used.
      Public use building or facility. Any building or facility designated for
public use, including all property owned and occupied or designated for use by
the state of Iowa.
      Residential installation. An installation intended for a single-family or
two-family residential dwelling or a multi-family residential dwelling not
larger than a four-family dwelling.
      Routine maintenance. The servicing, maintaining, or repairing of existing
electrical apparatus or equipment for which no changes in wiring are made.
      State board. The electrical examining board created under Iowa Code
section 103.2.
   80-4. Conflicting Provisions. Where, in any specific case, different
sections of this code specify different materials, methods of construction, or
other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
   80-5. Alternate Materials And Methods Of Construction. The provisions of
this code are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of
construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided any alternate
has been approved and its use authorized by the code official.
   The code official may approve any alternate, provided it is found that the
proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the provisions of this code
and that the material, method, or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at
least the equivalent of that prescribed in this code in suitability, strength,
effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, and safety.
   The code official shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be
submitted to substantiate any claims regarding the use of alternates. The
details of any action granting approval of an alternate shall be recorded and
entered in the files of the code enforcement agency.
   80-6. Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this code, the code official may grant
modifications for individual cases, provided it is found that a special
individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical and the
modification is in conformity with the intent and purpose of this code, and
that such modification does not lessen health, life, and fire safety
requirements. The details of actions granting modifications shall be recorded
and entered in the files of the code enforcement agency.
   80-7. Tests. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with any
of the provisions of this code or evidence that materials or construction do
not conform to the requirements of this code, the code official may require
tests as evidence of compliance to be made at no expense to this jurisdiction.
   Test methods shall be as specified by this code or by other recognized test
standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test methods for the
proposed alternate, the code official shall determine test procedures.
   All tests shall be made by an approved agency. Reports of such tests shall
be retained by the code official for the period required for the retention of
public records.
   Article 81.
   81-1. Powers And Duties Of Code Official.
      (a)   General. The code official is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce all the provisions of this code. For such purposes, the code official
shall have the powers of a law enforcement officer.
      The code official shall have the power to render interpretations of this
code and to adopt and enforce rules and regulations supplemental to this code
as deemed necessary in order to clarify the application of the provisions of
this code. Such interpretations, rules, and regulations shall be in conformity
with the intent and purpose of this code.
      (b)   Deputies. In accordance with prescribed procedures and with the
approval of the appointing authority, the code official may appoint a chief
electrical inspector and other related technical officers and inspectors and
other employees as shall be authorized from time to time.
      (c)   Right Of Entry. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce
any of the provisions of this code, or whenever the code official or authorized
representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any
building or upon any premises any condition or code violation which makes such
buildings or premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the code official or
authorized representative may enter such building or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the code official
by such codes, provided that if such building or premises be occupied, the code
official shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such
building or premises is unoccupied, the code official shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of the building or premises and request entry. If entry be refused, the code
official or authorized representative shall have recourse to every remedy
provided by law to secure entry.
      When the code official or authorized representative shall have first
obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure
entry, no owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care, or
control of any building or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request
is made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the code
official or authorized representative for the purpose of inspection and
examination pursuant to this code.
      (d)   Stop Orders. Whenever any work is being done contrary to the
provisions of this code, the code official may order the work stopped by notice
in writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to
be done and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by
the code official to proceed with the work.
      (e)   Authority To Disconnect Utilities In Emergencies. The code official
or authorized representative shall have the authority to disconnect any
electric power or energy service supplied to the building, structure, or
building service equipment therein regulated by this code in case of emergency
where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property. The code
official shall whenever possible notify the serving utility, the owner, and
occupant of the building, structure, or electrical system or equipment of the
decision to disconnect prior to taking such action, and shall notify such
serving utility, owner, and occupant of the building, structure, or building
service equipment, in writing, of such disconnection immediately thereafter.
      (f)   Authority To Condemn Electrical System And Equipment. Whenever the
code official ascertains that any electrical system or equipment regulated in
this code has become hazardous to life, health, or property, the code official
shall order in writing that such electrical system or equipment either be
removed or restored to a safe condition, whichever is appropriate. The written
notice itself shall fix a time limit for compliance with such order. No person
shall use or maintain defective electrical systems or equipment after receiving
such notice.
      When such equipment or installation is to be disconnected, a written
notice of such disconnection and causes therefor shall be given within twenty-
four (24) hours of the order to disconnect to the serving utility, the owner,
and occupant of such building, structure, or premises.
      When any electrical system or equipment is maintained in violation of
this code and in violation of any notice issued pursuant to the provisions of
this section, the code official shall institute any appropriate action to
prevent, restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
      (g)   Connection After Order To Disconnect. No person shall make
connections from any energy or power supply nor supply power to any electrical
system or equipment which has been disconnected or ordered to be disconnected
by the code official or the use of which has been ordered to be discontinued by
the code official until the code official authorizes the reconnection and use
of such electrical system or equipment.
      (h)   Liability. The code official, or authorized representative charged
with the enforcement of this code, acting in good faith and without malice in
the discharge of duties, shall not thereby be rendered personally liable for
any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act or by
reason of any act or omission in the discharge of duties. Any suit brought
against the code official or employee because of such act or omission performed
in the enforcement of any provision of such codes or other pertinent laws or
ordinances implemented through the enforcement of this code or enforced by the
code enforcement agency shall be defended by this jurisdiction until final
termination of such proceedings, and any judgment resulting therefrom shall be
assumed by this jurisdiction.
      This code shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, operating, or controlling any building or
structure for any damages to persons or property caused by defects, nor shall
the code enforcement agency or its parent jurisdiction be held as assuming any
such liability by reason of the inspections authorized by this code or any
permits or certificates issued under this code.
      (i)   Cooperation Of Other Officials And Officers. The code official may
request, and shall receive so far as is required in the discharge of duties,
the assistance and cooperation of other officials of this jurisdiction.
   81-2. Unsafe Electrical Systems Or Equipment. All electrical systems or
equipment regulated by this code which are unsafe or which constitute a fire
hazard or are otherwise dangerous to human life are, for the purpose of this
section, unsafe. Any use of electrical systems or equipment regulated by this
code constituting a hazard to safety, health, or public welfare by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster,
damage, or abandonment is, for the purpose of this section, an unsafe use.
   All such unsafe electrical systems or equipment are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal in accordance with the procedures set forth in title 1, chapter 4 of
the city of Dubuque code of ordinances. As an alternative, the code official or
other employee or official of this jurisdiction as designated by the governing
body may institute any other appropriate action to prevent, restrain, correct,
or abate the violation.
   81-3. Building Code Advisory and Appeal Board. See section
14-1A-6 of the city of Dubuque code of ordinances.
   81-4. Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation
to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert,
demolish, equip, use, or maintain any electrical system or equipment or cause
or permit the same to be done in violation of this code.
   The doing of any act, or the omission of any act, declared to be unlawful by
this code or any code or ordinance herein adopted by reference shall be deemed
a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
such unlawful act is committed, continued, or permitted; and, upon conviction,
shall be punishable as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of the city of Dubuque
code of ordinances. The penalty therein provided shall be cumulative with and
in addition to the revocation, cancellation, or forfeiture of any license or
permit elsewhere in this code provided for violation thereof.
   Article 82.
   82-1. Permits Required.
   (a)   Permits Required. Except as specified in subsections (b) and (c) of
this section, no electrical system regulated by this code shall be installed,
altered, repaired, replaced, or remodeled unless a separate electrical permit
for each building or structure has first been obtained from the code official.
   (b)   Exempt Work. An electrical permit shall not be required for the
following:
      (1)   Portable motors or other portable appliances energized by means of
a cord or cable having an attachment plug end to be connected to an approved
receptacle when that cord or cable is permitted by this code;
      (2)   Repair or replacement of fixed motors, transformers, or fixed
approved appliances of the same type and rating in the same location;
      (3)   Temporary decorative lighting;
      (4)   Repair or replacement of current-carrying parts of any switch,
contractor, or control device;
      (5)   Reinstallation of attachment plug receptacles, but not the outlets
therefor;
      (6)   Repair or replacement of any overcurrent device of the required
capacity in the same location;
      (7)   Repair or replacement of electrodes or transformers of the same
size and capacity for signs or gas tube systems;
      (9)   Removal of electrical wiring;
      (10)   Temporary wiring for experimental purposes in suitable
experimental laboratories; or
      (11)   The wiring for temporary theater, motion picture, or television
stage sets.
   However, any such exempted work that is to be performed in other than a
single-family home by the qualifying homeowner shall be performed by or
directly supervised by the holder of a state of Iowa class “A” or “B” master or
journeyman electrical license.
   Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to
grant authorization for any work to be done in violation of the provisions of
this code or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction.
   (c)   Exempt Systems And Utilities. An electrical permit shall not be
required for the following:
      (1)   Electrical wiring, devices, appliances, apparatus, or equipment
operation at less than twenty-five (25) volts and not capable of supplying more
than fifty (50) watts of energy.
      (2)   Low energy power, control, and signal circuits of classes II and
III as defined in this code.
      (3)   A permit shall not be required for the installation, alteration, or
repair of electrical wiring, apparatus, or equipment for the generation,
transmission, distribution, or metering of electrical energy, or in the
operation of signals or the transmission of intelligence by a public or private
utility in the exercise of its function as a serving utility.
   Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to
grant authorization for any work to be done in violation of the provisions of
this code or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction.
   82-2. Permit Process.
   (a)   Application For Permit. The applicant for an electrical permit must be
one of the following:
      (1)   The homeowner as defined elsewhere in this ordinance; or,
      (2)   Registered with the state of Iowa as a class “A” master electrical
licensee and affiliated with an electrical contracting firm or business that is
also licensed by and registered with the state of Iowa.
      (3)   In-house electricians, not for hire by the general public.
   (b)   Application. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an
application therefor in writing on a form furnished by the code enforcement
agency for that purpose. Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal
description, street address, or similar description that will readily identify
and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
      (3)   Identify the owner of property, and tenant if applicable, on which
the proposed work is to be done;
      (4)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (5)   Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computations, and specifications
and other data as required in subsection (c) of this section;
      (6)   Be signed by permittee or authorized agent; and
      (7)   Give such other data and information as may be required by the code
official.
   (c)   Plans And Specifications. Plans, engineering calculations, diagrams,
and other data shall be submitted in one or more sets with each application for
a permit. The code official may require plans, computations, and specifications
to be prepared and designed by an engineer or architect licensed by the state
of Iowa to practice as such.
   EXCEPTION: The code official may waive the submission of plans,
calculations, etc., if it is found that the nature of the work applied for is
such that reviewing of plans is not necessary to obtain compliance with this
code.
   (d)   Information On Plans And Specifications. Plans and specifications
shall be drawn to scale upon substantial paper or cloth and shall be of
sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature, and extent of the work
proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of this code
and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
   Plans for buildings more than two (2) stories in height of other than groups
R, division 3, and M occupancies shall indicate how required structural and
fire-resistive integrity will be maintained where a penetration will be made
for electrical and communication conduits, pipes, and similar systems.
   82-3. Permit Issuance.
   (a)   Issuance. The application, plans, specifications, and other data filed
by an applicant for permit shall be reviewed by the code official. Such plans
may be reviewed by other departments of this jurisdiction to verify compliance
with any applicable laws under their jurisdiction. If the code official finds
that the work described in an application for a permit and the plans,
specifications, and other data filed therewith conform to the requirements of
this code and other pertinent laws and ordinances and that the fees specified
in section 82-4 have been paid, a permit shall be issued therefor to the
applicant.
   When the code official issues the permit where plans are required, the plans
and specifications shall be endorsed in writing or stamped “APPROVED”. Such
approved plans and specifications shall not be changed, modified, or altered
without authorization from the code official and all work shall be done in
accordance with the approved plans.
   The code official may issue a permit for the construction of part of an
electrical system before the entire plans and specifications for the whole
system have been submitted or approved, provided adequate information and
detailed statements have been filed complying with all pertinent requirements
of this code. The holder of such permit shall proceed at personal risk without
assurance that the permit for the entire building, structure, or building
service will be granted.
   (b)   Retention Of Plans. One set of approved plans and specifications shall
be returned to the applicant and shall be kept on the site of the building work
at all times during which the work authorized thereby is in progress. One set
of approved plans, specifications, and computations shall be retained by the
code official until final approval of the work.
   (c)   Validity Of Permit. The issuance of a permit or approval of plans and
specifications shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of,
any violation of any of the provisions of this code, or of any other ordinance
of the jurisdiction. No permit presuming to give authority to violate or cancel
the provisions of these codes shall be valid.
   The issuance of a permit based upon plans, specifications, and other data
shall not prevent the code official from thereafter requiring the correction of
errors in said plans, specifications, and other data or from preventing
building operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of this code
or of any other ordinances of this jurisdiction.
   (d)   Expiration. Every permit issued by the code official under the
provisions of this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void, if
the building or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within one
hundred eighty (180) days from the date of such permit, or if the work
authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of one hundred
eighty (180) days following the last inspection of said work. Before such work
can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first obtained so to do, and the fee
therefor shall be one-half (½) the amount required for a new permit for such
work provided no changes have been made or will be made in the original plans
and specifications for such work; and provided further that such suspension or
abandonment has not exceeded one (1) year. In order to renew action on a permit
after expiration, the permittee shall pay a new full permit fee.
   Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for an extension of the
time within which work may commence under that permit when unable to commence
work within the time required by this section for good and satisfactory
reasons. The code official may extend the time for action by the permittee for
a period not exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days upon written request by
the permittee showing that circumstances beyond the control of the permittee
have prevented action from being taken. No permit shall be extended more than
once.
   (e)   Suspension Or Revocation. The code official may, in writing, suspend
or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this code whenever the permit
is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied or in
violation of any ordinance or regulation of the jurisdiction.
   82-4. Fees.
   (a)   Permit Fees. The fee for each electrical permit shall be as
established by the city manager.
   (b)   Plan Review Fees. When a plan or other data are required to be
submitted by subsection (c) of section 82-2, a plan review fee shall be paid as
established by the city manager. Where plans are incomplete or changed so as to
require additional plan review, an additional plan review fee shall be charged
at the rate established by the city manager.
   (c)   Expiration Of Plan Review. Applications for which no permit is issued
within one hundred eighty (180) days following the date of application shall
expire by limitation and plans and other data submitted for review may
thereafter be returned to the applicant or destroyed by the code official. The
code official may extend the time for action by the applicant for a period not
exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days upon request by the applicant showing
that circumstances beyond the control of the applicant have prevented action
from being taken. No application shall be extended more than once. In order to
renew action on an application after expiration, the applicant shall resubmit
plans and pay a new plan review fee.
   (d)   Investigation Fees For Work Without A Permit.
      (1)   Investigation. Whenever any work for which a permit is required by
this code has been commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special
investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work.
      (2)   Fee. An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall be
collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The
investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee that would be
required by this code if a permit were to be issued. The payment of such
investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with all other
provisions of either this code nor from any penalty prescribed by law.
   (e)   Fee Refunds.
      (1)   The code official may authorize the refunding of any fee paid
hereunder which was erroneously paid or collected.
      (2)   The code official may authorize the refunding of not more than
eighty percent (80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a
permit issued in accordance with this code.
      (3)   The code official may authorize the refunding of not more than
eighty percent (80%) of the plan review fee paid when an application for a
permit for which a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or canceled
before any plan reviewing is done.
   The code official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee paid except
upon written application filed by the original permittee no later than one
hundred eighty (180) days after the date of fee payment.
   82-5. Inspections.
   (a)   General. All electrical systems and equipment for which a permit is
required by this code shall be subject to inspection by the code official. No
portion of any electrical system intended to be concealed shall be concealed
until inspected and approved. Neither the code official nor this jurisdiction
shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any
material required to allow inspection. When the installation of an electrical
system and equipment is complete an additional and final inspection shall be
made. Electrical systems and equipment regulated by this code shall not be
connected to the energy source until authorized by the code official.
   (b)   Inspection Requests. It shall be the duty of the person doing the work
authorized by a permit to notify the code official that such work is ready for
inspection. The code official may require that every request for inspection be
filed at least one (1) business day before such inspection is desired. Such
request may be in writing or by telephone at the option of the code official.
   It shall be the duty of the person requesting inspections required by this
code to provide access to and means for proper inspection of such work.
   (c)   Operation Of Electrical Equipment. The requirements of this section
shall not be construed to prohibit the operation of any electrical system or
equipment installed to replace existing equipment. The request for inspection
of such equipment must have been filed with the code official not more than
forty-eight (48) hours after such replacement work is completed and before any
portion of such electrical system is concealed by any permanent portion of the
building.
   (d)   Other Inspections. In addition to the called inspections required by
this code, the code official may make or require other inspections of any work
to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this code and other laws which
are enforced by the code enforcement agency.
   (e)   Re-Inspections. A re-inspection fee may be assessed for each
inspection or reinspection when such portion of work for which inspection is
called is not complete or when corrections called for are not made.
   This provision is not to be interpreted as requiring re-inspection fees the
first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with the requirements of
this code, but as controlling the practice of calling for inspections before
the job is ready for such inspection or re-inspection.
   Re-inspection fees may be assessed when the approved plans are not readily
available to the inspector, for failure to provide access on the date for which
inspection is requested, or for deviating from plans requiring the approval of
the code official.
   To obtain a re-inspection, the applicant shall file an application therefor
in writing upon a form furnished for that purpose and pay the re-inspection fee
in accordance with table no. 13-A.
   In instances where re-inspection fees have been assessed, no additional
inspection of the work will be performed until the required fees have been
paid.
   (f)   Monthly Maintenance Inspections. In industrial plants where
experienced electricians are regularly employed and who have charge of the
electrical work in such plants, a monthly inspection shall be made by the code
official of the installation of electric wiring, fixtures, appliances, work and
materials used in connection with the operation of work in said plant. A record
shall be kept at such plants covering the preceding month. This record shall be
filed with the code official each month prior to the time set for making
regular inspection. Any falsity contained in the reports required to be filed
with the code official shall subject the person, firm, or corporation
responsible therefor to the penalties provided in this article.
   82-6. Connection Approval.
   (a)   Energy Connections. An electrical system or equipment regulated by
this code for which a permit is required shall not be connected to a source of
energy or power until approved by the code official.
   (b)   Temporary Connections. The code official may authorize the temporary
connection of the electrical system or equipment to the source of energy or
power for the purpose of testing the equipment or for use under a temporary
certificate of occupancy.
   Article 83.
   83-1. Definitions. For use within this article, the following words and
phrases are defined:
      Electrical equipment. All electrical materials, wiring, conductors,
fittings, devices, appliances, fixtures, signs, and apparatus or parts thereof.
      Electrical work. All installations, alterations, repairs, removals,
renewals, replacements, connections, disconnections, and maintenance of all
electrical equipment except as otherwise noted.
      Homeowner. The owner of property that is the owner’s principal place of
residence, if such residence is an existing dwelling rather than new
construction and is not larger than a single family dwelling or farm property
and shall qualify for the homestead tax exemption.
      Licensed. Licensed under this article or Iowa Code section 103.2, except
as otherwise specified.
      Maintenance electrician. A person who has the necessary training,
experience, and technical knowledge to undertake the work of servicing,
maintaining, and repairing electrical devices, appliances, and equipment within
the stipulated confines of property owned or controlled by the firm, business,
or company by whom employed. An electrical maintenance certificate of
competency may be issued to an individual and will entitle the holder thereof
to undertake the work of servicing, maintaining, and repairing electrical
devices, appliances, and equipment only within the confines of the property
owned by such individual for use or application to such property.
      Registered, under this article. A copy of the licensed person’s license
and current contact information has been provided to the city of Dubuque
building services department on forms provided by building services department,
except as otherwise specified.
   83-2. Registration Required; Exceptions.
      (a)   No person, firm, or corporation shall perform any electrical work
as an electrical contractor, master electrician, journeyman electrician,
apprentice electrician, unclassified person, or maintenance electrician in the
city of Dubuque unless registered as provided in this article.
      (b)   No electrical contractor or electrical maintenance electrician
shall employ any apprentice or unclassified person to perform any electrical
work unless said apprentice or unclassified person is under the direct personal
on-the-job supervision of a state master electrician or state journeyman
electrician. The ratio of apprentice electricians or unclassified persons to
holders of state of Iowa master or journeyman electrical licenses or electrical
maintenance licenses at any time shall not exceed the ratios given in
subsection 83-2(f).
      Direct personal on-the-job supervision and control and in the immediate
presence of a licensee shall mean the licensee and the apprentice electrician
or unclassified person shall be working at the same project location but shall
not require that the licensee and apprentice electrician or unclassified person
be within sight of one another at all times.
      Every person who desires to perform the work of an electrical laborer/
helper shall provide their name and contact information to the building
services department on such forms as the code official shall prescribe.
      Apprentice electricians shall not install, alter, or repair electrical
equipment except as provided in this ordinance and the licensee employing or
supervising the apprentice electricians shall not authorize or permit such
actions by the apprentice electricians.
      Unclassified persons shall not install, alter, or repair any energized
electrical equipment and the licensee employing or supervising the unclassified
persons shall not authorize or permit such actions by the unclassified persons.
      Apprentice electricians shall do no electrical wiring except under the
direct personal on-the-job supervision and control and in the immediate
presence of a licensee as provided in this ordinance. Such supervision shall
include both on-the-job training and related classroom training as approved by
the state of Iowa electrical examining board and the bureau of apprenticeship
and training of the United States department of labor.
      Unclassified persons shall do no electrical wiring except under the
direct personal on-the-job supervision and control and in the immediate
presence of a licensee as provided in this ordinance.
      Employment of unregistered master, journeyman, apprentice electricians,
or unclassified persons shall be grounds for the suspension or revocation of
the employing electrical contractor’s registration and their ability to do work
within the limits of the city of Dubuque.
      Employment of unregistered master, journeyman, apprentice electricians,
or unclassified persons shall be grounds for the suspension or revocation of
the employing maintenance electrician’s registration and their ability to do
work within the limits of the city of Dubuque.
      (c)   The owner or owners of a single-family dwelling, or mobile home,
including the usual accessory building and quarters used exclusively for living
purposes may do such electrical work without registration as demonstrated by
the capability to do, to the code official, providing that the dwelling or
mobile home is occupied by the owner and that a permit is issued as provided in
the electrical code.
      (d)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to any regular
employee of a public utility who does electrical work for such public utility
only, nor shall they apply to the electrical work of a telephone or telegraph
company, nor the persons, firms, or corporations performing electrical work for
such a company, where such electrical work is an integral part of the plant
used by such telephone or telegraph company in rendering its duly authorized
service to the public, nor to any regular employee of any railroad who does
electrical work only as a part of that employment.
      (e)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to the replacement
of integral parts of equipment or appliances by firms or persons in possession
of a valid electrical maintenance license issued previously to the firm or
person by the building services department of the city under other pertinent
city ordinances.
      (f)   The maximum number of state of Iowa licensed apprentice
electricians or state of Iowa licensed unclassified persons that may be
supervised by a licensed city of Dubuque or state of Iowa master, journeyman,
or maintenance electrician shall not exceed one to one (1:1).
      The supervision ratio of this section need not apply to apprenticeship
classroom training.
   83-3. Classes Of Dubuque Electrical License.
      (a)   One (1) class of license is hereby established and certificates
thereof shall be renewed only upon the direction of the Building Code Advisory
and Appeals board. This class shall be designated respectively as:
      Electrical maintenance license shall entitle the holder thereof to
undertake, within the corporate limits of the city of Dubuque, the work of
installing, servicing, maintaining, altering, and repairing electrical devices,
appliances, and equipment within the confines of property owned or controlled
by the firm, business, or company employing such registration holder or within
the confines of property owned by an individual.
   83-4. Examination Required; Application Fee For Reexamination Upon Failure
Of Examinations. Any person desiring to be examined for a license to perform
electrical maintenance work by the Dubuque electrical code board, as determined
by this article, shall make application to the board on forms furnished by the
board, setting forth information necessary to establish qualifications as such
and payment of an examination fee as specified in table no. 13B. Persons
failing an examination and desiring to take the examination again must make
application for the examination and pay the examination fee as required in the
first instance.
   83-5. Scope Of Examination. Applicants for licensure under this article will
be examined by the Dubuque electrical code board to determine their knowledge
of the rules and regulations governing the installation of electric wiring,
devices, appliances, and equipment as set forth in the statutes of the state,
the ordinances of the city, and in the national electrical code, in order to
determine the general qualifications and fitness of each applicant for
executing electrical maintenance work.
   83-6. Reexamination. Should an applicant for registration under this article
fail to pass an examination by not obtaining a rating thereon of seventy-five
percent (75%) or higher, such applicant may be reexamined upon submitting an
application in writing accompanied by the examination fee after a period of
sixty (60) days has elapsed from the date of the applicant’s last previous
examination.
   83-7. Fees For Licenses. Before an electrical maintenance license is granted
to any applicant under this article and before an expiring electrical license
issued by the city of Dubuque is renewed, the applicant shall pay to the city a
fee as specified in table no. 13-B.
   TABLE NO. 13-B
 
Electrical Examination, License Fees               
1. Initial fee for electrical maintenance license $120.00
2. Renewal fee for electrical maintenance license 60.00
Examination fees are set by the testing agency.    
 
   83-10. Suspension Of Permit Privilege For Multiple Violations. Where a
licensed electrical contractor is found doing electrical work without an
electrical permit on three (3) separate occasions in one (1) year, a hearing
shall be held by the code official at which time the permit privileges of said
electrical contractor may be suspended for a period of time not to exceed one
(1) year. The Building Code Advisory and Appeal board as established by article
81-3 shall be present at such hearings and shall act as advisors to the code
official in determining the course of action to be taken.
   83-12. Display Of License. Every holder of a state of Iowa electrical
license shall be able to produce their current license when on the job site or
when making application for an electrical permit.
   83-13. Transferability. No license may be loaned, rented, assigned, or
transferred. No holder of a valid license shall obtain a permit under said
license and then sub-contract, sell, or otherwise assign the work covered by
said permit to a person or firm who does not have a valid license.
   210.8. Ground-Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection For Personnel. Ground-
fault circuit-interrupter protection for personnel shall be provided as
required in 210.8(A) through (E). The ground-fault circuit-interrupter shall be
installed in a readily accessible location.
   210.8(A) Dwelling Units. All 125-volt, single-phase, 15- and 20-ampere
receptacles installed in locations specified in 210.8(A)(1) through 210.8(A)
(11) shall have ground-fault circuit-interrupter protection for personnel.
      (1)   Bathrooms.
      (2)   Garages and also accessory buildings that have a floor located at
or below grade level not intended to be habitable rooms and limited to storage
areas, work areas or similar use.
      (3)   Outdoors.
      Exception to (3): Receptacles that are not readily accessible and are
supplied branch circuit dedicated to electrical snow-melting, deicing, or
pipeline and vessel heating equipment shall be permitted to be installed in
accordance with 426.28 or 427.22, as applicable.
      (4)   Crawl spaces - at or below grade level.
      (5)   Basements.
      Exception to (5): A receptacle supplying only a permanently installed
fire alarm or burglar alarm system shall not be required to have ground-fault
circuit-interrupter protection. Informational Note: See 760.41B and 760.121(B)
for power supply requirements for fire alarm systems. Receptacles installed
under the exception to 210.8(A)(5) shall not be considered as meeting the
requirements of 210.52(G).
      (6)   Kitchens - where the receptacles are installed to serve the
countertop surfaces.
      (7)   Sinks - where the receptacles are installed within 1.8 m (6 ft)
from the top inside edge of the bowl of the sink.
      (8)   Boathouses.
      (9)   Bathtubs or shower stalls - where receptacles are installed within
1.8 m (6 ft) of the outside edge of the bathtub or shower stall.
      (10)   Laundry areas.
      Exception to (1) through (3), (5) through (8), and (10): Listed locking
support and mounting receptacles utilized in combination with compatible
attachment fittings installed for the purpose of serving a ceiling luminaire or
ceiling fan shall not be required to be ground-fault circuit-interrupter
protected. If a general-purpose convenience receptacle is integral to the
ceiling luminaire or ceiling fan, GFCI protection shall be provided.
      (11)   Indoor damp and wet locations.
   210.12. Arc-Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection.
      (B) Branch Circuit Extensions Or Modifications - Dwelling Units.
      This section is hereby repealed.
      (D) Branch Circuit Extensions or Modifications - Dwelling Units and
Dormitory Units.
      This section is hereby repealed.
   220.12. Lighting Load For Specified Occupancies. The current exception to
section 220.12 is hereby repealed and the following is inserted in lieu
thereof:
      a. Where the building is designed and constructed to comply with an
energy code adopted by the local authority, the lighting load shall be
permitted to be calculated at the values specified in the energy code.
   220.12(B) Energy Code. This section is hereby repealed and the following
inserted in lieu thereof:
      220.12(B) Energy Code. Where the building is designed and constructed to
comply with an energy code adopted by the local authority, the lighting load
shall be permitted to be calculated at the values specified in the energy code.
   334.10. Uses Permitted.
   Type NM, type NMC, and type NMS cables shall be permitted to be used in the
following:
      (2)   Multifamily dwellings, two (2) stories or less in height, permitted
to be of types III, IV, and V construction except as prohibited in 334.12.
      (3)   Other residential or accessory structures, two (2) stories or less
in height, permitted to be of types III, IV, and V construction except as
prohibited in 334.12. Cables shall be concealed within walls, floors, or
ceilings that provide a thermal barrier of material that has at least a fifteen
(15) minute finish rating as identified in listings of fire-rated assemblies.
      (4)   Manufactured buildings as defined and regulated in article 545 of
the national electrical code. Manufactured buildings must comply with the
provisions of article 545.
   Article 408.4(A). Additional Labeling Of Electrical Service Panels And
Switchboards.
   The labeling shall be expanded to include the name of contracting company
(installer) and the contact information for same and shall be installed at or
on the main electrical service panel. Additionally it will list all of the
following:
      (1) Location(s) of all accessible bolted grounding connections to any
metal water service piping.
      (2) Approximate location(s) of all buried ground-rod connections, if any
installed.
      (3) Approximate location of all bolted grounding connections to
reinforcing steel in foundation if installed.
      (4) Location(s) of all accessible bolted bonding connections to building
steel and all other metal piping systems including gas piping, sprinklers, etc.
      (5) Location of the intersystem bonding terminal bus bar. Irreversible
connections (compression, exothermic, etc.) are not required to be accessible.
   Article 334.12 Uses Not Permitted. Adopted as is, except add item 11:
      (11)   In hotels, motels, commercial, mercantile, industrial,
institutional, and public buildings
   Article 408.4 Field Identification Required. Insert the following section:
   Article 408.4(C). Additional Labeling Of Electrical Service Panels And
Switchboards. A permanent legible label shall be installed at or on the main
electrical service panel and shall include the following:
      (1)   The name of the contracting company performing the work
      (2)   Contact information for the contracting company performing the work
      (3)   Location(s) of all accessible bolted grounding connections to any
metal water service piping.
      (4)   Approximate location(s) of all buried ground-rod connections, if
any installed.
      (5)   Approximate location of all bolted grounding connections to
reinforcing steel in foundation if installed.
      (6)   Location(s) of all accessible bolted bonding connections to
building steel and all other metal piping systems including gas piping,
sprinklers, etc.
      (7)   Location of the intersystem bonding terminal bus bar. Irreversible
connections (compression, exothermic, etc.) are not required to be accessible.
      (Ord. 17-09, 3-16-2009, eff. 5-1-2009; amd. Ord. 3-12, 1-17-2012; Ord. 4-
15, 1-5-2015; Ord. 56-16, 10-17-2016; Ord. 39-19, 9-3-2019; Ord. 48-21, 12-20-
2021; Ord. 48-21, 12-20-2021; Ord. 20-23, 5-15-2023)
14-1D-3: ELECTRICAL CODE REVIEW AND APPEALS:
See section
14-1A-6. (Ord. 34-17, 7-5-2017; amd. Ord. 45-20, 12-7-2020)
ARTICLE E. FIRE CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
14-1E-1: International Fire Code Adopted
14-1E-2: International Fire Code Amendments
14-1E-3: Reserved
14-1E-4: Emergencies
14-1E-5: Special Conditions
14-1E-1: INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
Except as hereinafter added to, deleted, modified, or amended, the
International Fire Code, 2021 edition, as promulgated by the International Code
Council, is hereby adopted by reference from the effective date hereof.
A copy of the International Fire Code, 2021 edition, is on file at the fire
headquarters for public inspection. (Ord. 47-19, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-23, 5-
15-2023)
14-1E-2: INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following additions, deletions, modifications, or amendments of the
International Fire Code, 2021 edition, adopted in section
14-1E-1 of this article to read as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. Amended to read:
   101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Dubuque Fire Code,
hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
Section 102.6 Historic Buildings. Amended to read:
   102.6 Historic Buildings. Repairs, alterations, and additions to a historic
building shall comply with the provisions of the Dubuque Existing Building
Code.
Section 105.5 Required operational permits. Amended to read:
   105.5 Required operational permits. The fire code official is authorized to
issue operational permits for the operations set forth in Sections 105.5.2
through 105.5.52 of this code. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to use a building or premises or engage in any activity for which a
permit is required by the Dubuque Code of Ordinances without first having
obtained such permit.
Section 111 replaced with City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances section
14-1A-6.
Section 308.1.4 Open-flame cooking devices. Amended to read:
   Charcoal burners and other open-flame cooking devices shall not be located,
stored, or operated on combustible balconies or within 10 feet (3,048 mm) of
combustible construction.
   Exceptions:
      1.   One- and two-family dwellings.
      2.   Where buildings, balconies, and decks are protected by an automatic
sprinkler system.
      3.   LP-gas cooking devices having LP-gas container with a water capacity
not greater than 2 ½ pounds [nominal 1 pound (0.454 kg) LP-gas capacity].
Section 505.1 Address Identification. Amended to read:
   505.1 Address Identification. New and existing buildings shall be provided
with approved address identification. The address identification shall be
legible and placed in a position that is visible from the street or road
fronting the property. Address identification characters shall contrast with
their background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabetical
letters. Numbers shall not be spelled out. Each character shall be not less
than 4 inches (102 mm) high with a minimum stroke width of 1/2 inch (12.7 mm).
Where required by the fire code official, address identification shall be
provided in additional approved locations to facilitate emergency response.
Where access is by means of a private road and the building cannot be viewed
from the public way, a monument, pole, or other sign or means shall be used to
identify the structure. Address identification shall be maintained.
   505.1.1 Interior room numbers. New and existing buildings shall be provided
with approved room and suite identification. The room and suite identification
shall be placed in a position that is plainly legible and visible.
Identification characters shall contrast with their background.
Section 506.1 Where Required. Amended to read:
   506.1 Where Required. An approved key box shall be required on all
commercial and residential structures that contain off-site monitored fire
alarm and/or sprinkler systems or where access to or within a structure or an
area is restricted because of secured openings. Where immediate access is
necessary for life-saving or fire-fighting purposes, the fire code official is
authorized to require a key box to be installed in an approved location. The
key box shall be of an approved type listed in accordance with UL 1037 and
shall contain keys to gain necessary access as required by the fire code
official.
   506.1.2 Key boxes for fire service elevator keys. Amended to read:
   506.1.2 Key boxes for fire service elevator keys. Approved key boxes shall
be provided for fire service elevator keys shall comply with Section 506.1 of
this code and all of the following:
      1.   The key box shall be the rapid entry key box system in use in the
jurisdiction and approved by the fire code official.
      2.   The front cover shall be permanently labeled with the words “FIRE
DEPARTMENT USE ONLY.”
      3.   The key box shall be mounted at each elevator bank at the lobby
nearest to the lowest level of fire department access.
      4.   The key box shall be mounted 5 feet 6 inches (1,676 mm) above the
finished floor to the right side of the elevator bank.
      5.   Contents of each key box shall be the building master key, fire
service elevator keys, recall keys, and additional elevator access tools, keys,
and information pertinent to emergency planning or elevator access as
determined necessary by the fire code official.
      6.   In buildings with two or more elevator banks, a single key box shall
be permitted to be used where such elevator banks are located on the same floor
and separated by not more than 30 feet (9,144 mm). Additional key boxes shall
be provided for each individual elevator or elevator bank separated by more
than 30 feet (9,144 mm).
Section 604.6 Elevator Keys. Amended to read:
   604.6 Elevator Keys. All elevators shall be provided elevator car door and
fire-fighter service keys in accordance with Sections 606.6.1 through 604.6.4
of this code.
   604.6.1 Elevator key location. Keys for the elevator car doors and fire-
fighter service keys shall be kept in an approved key box in an approved
location in accordance with Section 506.1.2 of this code.
   604.6.2 Requirements for fire service elevator keys. Fire service elevator
keys shall comply with all of the following:
      1.   Fire service elevator keys shall be of a patent-protected design to
prevent unauthorized duplication.
      2.   Fire service elevator keys shall be factory restricted by the
manufacturer to prevent the unauthorized distribution of key blanks. Uncut key
blanks shall not be permitted to leave the factory.
      3.   Fire service elevator keys subject to these rules shall be engraved
with the words “DO NOT DUPLICATE.”
   604.6.3 Access to fire service keys. Access to fire service elevator keys
shall be restricted to the following:
      1.   Elevator owners or their authorized agents.
      2.   Elevator contractors.
      3.   Elevator inspectors of the jurisdiction.
      4.   Fire code officials of the jurisdiction.
      5.   The fire department and other emergency response agencies designated
by the fire code official.
   604.6.4 Responsibility to provide keys. The building owner shall provide one
set of keys for each approved key box for fire service elevator key required by
Section 506.1.1 of this code.
Section 606.2 Where Required. Amended to read:
   606.2 Where Required. A Type I hood shall be installed at or above all
commercial cooking appliances and domestic cooking appliances used for
commercial purposes that produce grease vapors, including but not limited to
cooking equipment used in fixed, mobile, or temporary concessions, such as
trucks, buses, trailers, pavilions, or any form of roofed enclosure, as
required by the fire code official.
   Exceptions:
      1.   Factory-built commercial exhaust hoods that are listed and labeled
in accordance with UL 710, and installed in accordance with Section 304.1 of
the Dubuque Mechanical Code, shall not be required to comply with Sections
507.1.5, 507.2.3., 507.2.5, 507.2.8, 507.3.1, 507.3.3, 507.4 and 507.5 of the
Dubuque Mechanical Code.
      2.   Factory-built commercial cooking recirculating systems that are
listed and labeled in accordance with UL 710B, and installed in accordance with
Section 304.1 of the Dubuque Mechanical Code, shall not be required to comply
with Sections 507.1.5, 507.2.3, 507.2.5, 507.2.8, 507.3.1, 507.3.3, 507.4, and
507.5 of the Dubuque Mechanical Code. For the purpose of determining floor area
required to be ventilated, each individual appliance shall be considered as
occupying not less than 100 square feet (9.3m²).
      3.   Where cooking appliances are equipped with integral down-draft
exhaust systems and such appliances and exhaust systems are listed and labeled
for the application in accordance with NFPA 96, a hood shall not be required at
or above them.
      4.   A Type I hood shall not be required for an electric cooking
appliance where an approved testing agency provides documentation that the
appliance effluent contains 5 mg/m3 or less of grease when tested at an exhaust
flow rate of 500 cfm (0.236 m3/s) in accordance with UL 710B.
Section 903.3.1.1.1 Exempt Locations. Amended to read:
   903.3.1.1.1 Exempt Locations. Automatic sprinklers shall not be required in
the following rooms or areas where such rooms or areas are protected with an
approved automatic fire detection system in accordance with section 907.2 of
this code that will respond to visible or invisible particles of combustion.
Sprinklers shall not be omitted from a room merely because it is damp, of fire-
resistance-rated construction, or contains electrical equipment.
      1.   A room where the application of water, or flame and water,
constitutes a serious life or fire hazard.
      2.   A room or space where sprinklers are considered undesirable because
of the nature of the contents, where approved by the fire code official.
      3.   Generator and transformer rooms separated from the remainder of the
building by walls and floor/ceiling or roof/ceiling assemblies having a fire-
resistance rating of not less than 2 hours.
      4.   Rooms or areas that are of noncombustible construction with wholly
noncombustible contents.
      5.   Fire service access elevator machine rooms and machinery spaces.
      6.   Automatic sprinklers shall not be installed in elevator machine
rooms, elevator machine spaces, and elevator hoistways other than pits where
such sprinklers would not necessitate shunt trip requirements under any
circumstances. Storage shall not be allowed within the elevator machine room.
Signage shall be provided at the entry doors to the elevator machine room
indicating “Elevator Machinery-No Storage Allowed”.
      7.   Machine rooms, machinery spaces, control rooms, and control spaces
associated with occupant evacuation elevators designed in accordance with
Section 3008 of the Dubuque Building Code. Automatic sprinklers shall not be
installed in elevator hoistways other than pits where such sprinklers would not
necessitate shunt trip requirements under any circumstances.
Section 1028.5 Access To A Public Way. Amended to read:
   1028.5 Access To A Public Way. The exit discharge pathway shall be hard
surfaced and provide a direct and unobstructed access to a public way.
   Exception: Where access to a public way cannot be provided, a safe dispersal
area shall be provided where all of the following are met:
      1.   The area shall be of a size to accommodate not less than 5 square
feet (0.46 m2) for each person.
      2.   The area shall be located on the same lot not less than 50 feet
(15,240 mm) away from the building requiring egress.
      3.   The area shall be permanently maintained and identified as a safe
dispersal area.
      4.   The area shall be provided with a safe and unobstructed path of
travel from the building.
1031.3.1 Minimum size. Amended to read:
   Emergency escape and rescue openings shall have a minimum net clear opening
of 5.7 square feet. (0.53m2)
   Exception: The minimum net clear opening for grade-floor emergency escape
and rescue openings shall be 5 square feet. (0.46m2)
   Exception: Replacement windows installed in buildings meeting the scope of
this code shall be exempt from the minimum size requirements of this section,
provided that the replacement window meets the following conditions:
      1.   The replacement window is the manufacturer’s largest standard size
window that will fit within the existing frame or existing rough opening. The
replacement window shall be of a style that provides for the greatest net clear
window opening area in the existing frame or existing rough opening, but will
have a minimum net clear openable width of 20 inches (508 mm), a minimum net
clear openable height of 22 inches (558 mm), and a minimum net clear opening of
4.0 square feet (0.372 m2).
      2.   Window replacements permitted between April 11, 2016 and the
effective date of this ordinance that serve as the required emergency escape
and rescue opening will be allowed to remain as long as they meet the following
requirements:
         a.   Window was permitted as required by the City of Dubuque
         b.   Window was approved as code compliant as documented by the City
of Dubuque.
      3.   The replacement window is not part of a change of occupancy or use.
Section 1031.3.3. Maximum height from floor. Amended to read:
   1031.3.3. Maximum height from floor.
   Emergency escape and rescue openings shall have the bottom of the clear
opening not greater than 44 inches (1118 mm) measured from the floor. An
existing finished sill height may exceed 44 inches (1118 mm) above the floor if
the following conditions are met:
      a.   A platform capable of supporting a live load of 300 pounds shall be
permanently affixed at the interior of the structure. This platform shall be no
lower than 20 inches (508 mm) above the floor and no higher than 36 inches (914
mm) above the floor. The distance from the platform to the finished sill height
shall not exceed 36 inches (914 mm). The platform shall extend outward from the
wall a minimum of 18 inches (457 mm) and shall be at least as wide as the clear
openable width of the window or other approved method/platform.
      b.   The emergency escape and rescue opening shall comply with section
1031.3.2 of this code.
Section 1103.8.3 Power Source. Amended to read:
   1103.8.3 Power source.
   Single-station smoke alarms shall receive their primary power from the
building wiring provided that such wiring is served from a commercial source
and shall be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms with integral strobes
that are not equipped with battery backup shall be connected to an emergency
electrical system. Smoke alarms shall emit a signal when the batteries are low.
Wiring shall be permanent and without a disconnecting switch other than as
required for overcurrent protection.
   Exceptions:
   1.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in existing
buildings where construction is not taking place, provided that the battery is
nonremovable, nonreplaceable and powers the alarm for at least ten years.
   2.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in buildings
that are not served from a commercial power source, provided that the battery
is nonremovable, nonreplaceable and powers the alarm for at least ten years.
   3.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in existing
areas of buildings undergoing alterations or repairs that do not result in the
removal of interior walls or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless
there is an attic, crawl space or basement available that could provide access
for building wiring without the removal of interior finishes, provided that the
battery is nonremovable, nonreplaceable and powers the alarm for at least ten
years.
Appendix A - Do not adopt
Appendix B - Adopt
Appendix C - Adopt
Appendix D - Adopt
Appendix E - Do not adopt
Appendix F - Do not adopt
Appendix G - Do not adopt
Appendix H - Do not adopt
Appendix I - Do not adopt
Appendix J - Do not adopt
Appendix K - Do not adopt
Appendix L - Do not adopt
Appendix M - Do not adopt
(Ord. 47-19, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-23, 5-15-2023; Ord. 50-24, 9-3-2024)
14-1E-3: RESERVED:
14-1E-4: EMERGENCIES:
Where a situation requires immediate decision, that of the fire chief shall be
final and conclusive. (Ord. 46-10, 8-6-2010; amd. Ord. 23-23, 5-15-2023)
14-1E-5: SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
The fire chief in matters of fire prevention shall have full power to exercise
judgment in a reasonable and proper manner and rule accordingly on all special
cases in regard to any of the matters and things treated in this code relating
to fire hazards not specifically covered thereby. (Ord. 46-10, 8-6-2010; amd.
Ord. 23-23, 5-15-2023)
ARTICLE F. MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
14-1F-1: International Mechanical Code Adopted
14-1F-2: International Mechanical Code Amendments
14-1F-3: Fees
14-1F-4: Mechanical Code Review And Appeals
14-1F-1: INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
Except as hereinafter added to, deleted, modified, or amended, there is hereby
adopted by reference as the mechanical code of the City that certain mechanical
code known as the International Mechanical Code, 2021 edition, as published by
the International Code Council, and the provisions of such mechanical code
shall be controlling for the installation, maintenance, and use of heating,
ventilating, cooling, refrigeration systems, incinerators, and other
miscellaneous heat-producing appliances within the corporate limits of the City
and shall be known as the Dubuque Mechanical Code. A copy of the International
Mechanical Code, 2021 edition, as adopted, shall be on file in the Office of
the City Clerk for public inspection. (Ord. 42-19, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-23,
5-15-2023)
14-1F-2: INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following additions, deletions, modifications, or amendments of the
International Mechanical Code, 2021 edition, adopted in section
14-1F-1 of this article to read as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. Amended to read:
   101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Dubuque Mechanical
Code, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
Section 103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. Amended to read:
   103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. The Inspection & Construction Services
Division is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as
the code official. The function of the agency shall be the implementation,
administration, and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
Section 108 Violations. Amended to read:
   Section 108. Violations And Penalties. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, or corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
improve, remove, convert, or demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any
building or structure or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of
this code.
   The doing of any act, or the omission of any act, declared to be unlawful by
this code, or any code or ordinance herein adopted by reference, shall be
deemed a separate offense for each and every day during which any such unlawful
act is committed, continued, or permitted to continue and upon conviction shall
be punishable as provided in title 1 of the City Code of Ordinances. The
penalty herein provided shall be cumulative with and in addition to the
revocation, cancellation, or forfeiture of any license or permit elsewhere in
this code provided for violation thereof.
   A notice of violation is not required in every situation and city staff may
issue a municipal infraction without previously issuing a notice of violation.
Section 113 Means Of Appeal. Amended to read:
   113.1 Means of Appeals. See City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances section
14-1A-6
Section 114. Board of Appeals. Amended to read:
   114.1 Board of Appeals. See city of Dubuque code of ordinances section
14-1A-6
Section 202 Definitions. Amendment to “building official” and inclusion of
“code official”:
   Building Official. See “Code Official”.
   Code Official. The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of this code, or a duly authorized
representative. Any reference to “building official” in this code refers to
“code official”. (Ord. 42-19, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-23, 5-15-2023)
14-1F-3: FEES:
The fee for each mechanical permit and supplemental mechanical permits shall be
as established by the City Manager. (Ord. 39-13, 7-15-2013)
14-1F-4: MECHANICAL CODE REVIEW AND APPEALS:
See section
14-1A-6. (Ord. 54-16, 10-17-2016; amd. Ord. 46-20, 12-7-2020)
ARTICLE G. FUEL GAS CODE
(Rep. by Ord. 27-23, 5-15-2023)
ARTICLE H. PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
14-1H-1: International Plumbing Code Adopted
14-1H-2: International Plumbing Code Amendments
14-1H-3: Licensure And Certification
14-1H-4: Backflow Prevention Requirements For New Residential Construction
14-1H-5: Backflow Prevention Requirements For Existing Water Services
14-1H-6: Inspection Fees
14-1H-7: Plumbing Code Review And Appeals
14-1H-1: INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
Except as hereinafter added to, deleted, modified or amended, the Plumbing Code
as adopted and amended by the State of Iowa Administrative Code 641 Chapter 25
is hereby adopted by reference as the Dubuque Plumbing Code, subject to the
amendments and adoptions by the State of Iowa Department of Public Safety, and
the provisions of such Plumbing Code shall be controlling for the installation,
alteration, repair, relocation, replacement, addition to and use or maintenance
of plumbing equipment and systems in all matters covered by such Plumbing Code
within the corporate limits of the City. A copy of the Uniform Plumbing Code,
2021 edition, as adopted, shall be on file in the Office of the City Clerk for
public inspection. (Ord. 44-19, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 28-23, 5-15-2023)
14-1H-2: INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following additions, deletions, modifications, or amendments of the Uniform
Plumbing Code, 2021 edition, adopted in section
14-1H-1 of this article to read as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. Amended to read:
   101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Dubuque Plumbing Code,
hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
Section 104.5 Fees. Amended to read:
   104.5 Fees. The fees for each permit shall be as set forth by the city
council.
Section 104.5.3 Fee Refunds. Amended to read:
   104.5.3 Fee Refunds. The Code Official may authorize the refunding of a fee
as follows:
      (1)   The code official may authorize the refunding of any fee paid
hereunder which was erroneously paid or collected.
      (2)   The code official may authorize the refunding of not more than
eighty (80) percent of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a
permit issued in accordance with this code.
      (3)   The code official may authorize the refunding of not more than
eighty (80) percent of the plan review fee paid when an application for a
permit for which a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or cancelled
before any plan review effort has been expended.
Table 104.5 Plumbing Permit Fees. Delete Table.
Table 604.1 Materials for Building Supply and Water Distribution Piping and
Fittings. Amended as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5258.png]
 
Section 604.1 Pipe, Tube, and Fittings. Add subsection as follows:
   604.1.1 Building Supply piping. Building supply water piping to the point of
entrance to the building shall be made of copper tube type K, or cast-iron
water pipe.
604.3 Copper or Copper Alloy Tube. Copper or copper alloy tube for water piping
shall have a min. weight as follows:
   604.3.1 Building Supply. Copper or copper alloy tube for building supply
piping shall be type K to the point of entrance to a building or structure.
   604.3.1 Distribution Piping. Copper or copper alloy tube for water
distribution within a building or structure shall be type L or type K.
   Exception: Type M copper or copper alloy tubing shall be permitted to be
used for water piping where piping is above-ground in, or on, a building.
Section 604.10 Plastic Materials. Amend section as follows:
   604.10 Plastic Materials. Approved plastic materials shall be permitted to
be used in building distribution piping, provided that where metal building
distribution piping is used for electrical grounding purposes, replacement
piping, therefore, shall be of like materials.
   Exception: Where a grounding system acceptable to the Authority Having
Jurisdiction is installed, inspected, and approved, the metallic pipe shall be
permitted to be replaced with nonmetallic pipe. (Ord. 26-16, 6-6-2016, eff. 7-
1-2016; amd. Ord. 28-23, 5-15-2023)
14-1H-3: LICENSURE AND CERTIFICATION:
   A.   Except as provided in Iowa Code section 105.11, a person shall not
operate as a contractor or install or repair plumbing, HVAC, refrigeration, or
hydronic systems without obtaining a license issued by the state, or install or
repair medical gas piping systems without obtaining a valid certification
approved by the state.
   B.   Except as provided in Iowa Code section 105.11, a person shall not
engage in the business of designing, installing, or repairing plumbing, HVAC,
refrigeration, or hydronic systems unless at all times a licensed master, who
shall be responsible for the proper designing, installing, and repairing of the
plumbing, HVAC, refrigeration, or hydronic system, is employed by the person
and is actively in charge of the plumbing, HVAC, refrigeration, or hydronic
work of the person. An individual who performs such work pursuant to a business
operated as a sole proprietorship shall be a licensed master in the applicable
discipline. (Ord. 39-13, 7-15-2013)
14-1H-4: BACKFLOW PREVENTION REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION:
There are hereby established minimum backflow prevention standards for new
residential construction. The city manager shall determine the type of backflow
prevention assembly required for containment based on the degree of hazard as
outlined in title 13, chapter 1, article D of this code. (Ord. 39-13, 7-15-
2013)
14-1H-5: BACKFLOW PREVENTION REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING WATER SERVICES:
The requirements for backflow prevention related to existing water services are
outlined in title 13, chapter 1, article D of this code. (Ord. 39-13, 7-15-
2013)
14-1H-6: INSPECTION FEES:
A fee shall be paid for inspections made outside of normal business hours and
for inspections for which no fees are specifically indicated. Inspection fees
shall be as set forth by the city manager. (Ord. 39-13, 7-15-2013)
14-1H-7: PLUMBING CODE REVIEW AND APPEALS:
See section
14-1A-6. (Ord. 55-16, 10-17-2016; amd. Ord. 48-20, 12-7-2020)
ARTICLE I. ACCESSIBILITY CODE FOR READILY ACHIEVABLE CHANGES
SECTION:
14-1I-1: Public Accommodations
14-1I-2: Owner Defined; Landlord And Tenant Responsibilities
14-1I-3: Removal Of Architectural Barriers If Readily Achievable
14-1I-4: General Enforcement
14-1I-5: Compliance Agreements
14-1I-6: Notices And Orders Of Building Official
14-1I-7: [Reserved]
14-1I-8: Licenses And Permits
14-1I-9: Responsible Parties
14-1I-1: PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS:
A "place of public accommodation" means a facility whose operations fall within
one of the following categories:
   A.   An inn, hotel, motel, or other place of lodging, except for an
establishment located within a building that contains not more than five (5)
rooms for rent or hire and that is actually occupied by the proprietor of such
establishment as the residence of such proprietor;
   B.   A restaurant, bar or other establishment serving food or drink;
   C.   A motion picture house, theater, concert hall, stadium or other place
of exhibition or entertainment;
   D.   An auditorium, convention center, lecture hall or other place of public
gathering;
   E.   A bakery, grocery store, clothing store, hardware store, shopping
center or other sales or rental establishment;
   F.   A laundromat, dry cleaner, bank, barbershop, beauty shop, travel
service, shoe repair service, funeral parlor, gas station, office of an
accountant or lawyer, pharmacy, insurance office, professional office of a
healthcare provider, hospital or other service establishment;
   G.   A terminal, depot or other station used for public transportation;
   H.   A museum, library, gallery or other place of public display or
collection;
   I.   A park, zoo, amusement park or other place of recreation;
   J.   A nursery, elementary, secondary, undergraduate, or postgraduate
private school or other place of education;
   K.   A daycare center, senior citizen center, homeless shelter, food bank,
adoption agency or other social service center establishment; and
   L.   A gymnasium, health spa, bowling alley, golf course or other place of
exercise or recreation. (Ord. 6-08, 2-4-2008)
14-1I-2: OWNER DEFINED; LANDLORD AND TENANT RESPONSIBILITIES:
For purposes of this article, "owner" shall mean the owner of a building that
is or houses a place of public accommodation, a landlord who owns property that
is or houses a place of public accommodation, and a tenant who owns or operates
a place of public accommodation. (Ord. 6-08, 2-4-2008)
14-1I-3: REMOVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL BARRIERS IF READILY ACHIEVABLE:
   A.   Removal Required: It shall be a violation of this article for an owner
of a public accommodation to fail to remove architectural barriers, and
communication barriers that are structural in nature, in any public
accommodation, where such removal is readily achievable, as determined by the
city manager. The phrase "readily achievable" shall have the meaning set forth
under the Americans with disabilities act of 1990 (42 USC 12182), as amended,
and any implementing regulations.
   B.   Availability Through Alternative Methods: Where an owner can
demonstrate that the removal of a barrier under subsection A of this section is
not readily achievable, an owner shall nonetheless be required to make existing
facilities available through alternative methods if such methods are readily
achievable, as determined by the city manager. (Ord. 59-12, 11-19-2012)
14-1I-4: GENERAL ENFORCEMENT:
The building official is authorized to take such action as may be necessary to
enforce this article. (Ord. 6-08, 2-4-2008)
14-1I-5: COMPLIANCE AGREEMENTS:
In lieu of or in addition to any penalty or procedure authorized herein or by
law, the building official and an owner accused of violating this article may
enter into a written agreement providing for the proper and timely abatement of
violations. A compliance agreement may include a description of the specific
action that will be taken to abate violations or to provide greater
accessibility, a compliance timetable, a requirement for performance security,
notice procedures and reporting requirements, liquidated penalties and other
items reasonably related to the proper and timely abatement of violations. A
compliance agreement shall constitute a written contract between the city and
the owner which may be enforced by any appropriate action at law or in equity,
including an action for specific performance or injunctive relief. A compliance
agreement shall run with the land and shall be recorded. The violation of a
compliance agreement shall constitute a separate violation of this article. A
compliance agreement shall not relieve an owner from the continuing obligation
to comply with this article or any other law or regulation pertaining to
accessibility. (Ord. 6-08, 2-4-2008)
14-1I-6: NOTICES AND ORDERS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   Inspection; Barriers Detected: Whenever the building official has
inspected or caused to be inspected any place of public accommodation and has
found and determined that there exist barriers whose removal is readily
achievable, the building official shall commence proceedings to cause the
removal of such barriers.
   B.   Timely Abatement: The building official shall attempt to reach an
agreement with an owner alleged to have violated this article on a plan for
proper and timely abatement of violations. Such agreement shall be in writing
signed by all of the owners and the building official and shall include a
description of the specific action that will be taken by the owner to abate the
alleged violations or to provide greater accessibility, and a compliance
timetable. A failure to abate the alleged violations in accordance with the
timetable shall constitute a municipal infraction.
   C.   Contents Of Notice And Order: If the building official and an owner
alleged to be in violation of this article are unable to reach agreement within
thirty (30) days of inspection, for the abatement of the alleged violations,
the building official shall issue a notice and order directed to all of the
owners of the public accommodation. The notice and order shall include:
      1.   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located.
      2.   A statement that the building official has found that barriers exist
whose removal is readily achievable.
      3.   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by the
building official. Such order shall require that all required permits be
secured therefor and the work physically commenced and completed within such
time as the building official shall determine is reasonable under all of the
circumstances, but not to exceed twelve (12) months from the date of the order.
      4.   Statements advising: a) that an owner may appeal from the notice and
order or any action of the building official to the building code and advisory
appeals board, provided the appeal is made in writing as provided in this
article and filed with the building official within thirty (30) days from the
date of service of such notice and order; and b) that failure to appeal will
constitute a waiver of all right to an appeal of the matter. The building code
and advisory appeals board shall follow the appeals and hearing process set
forth in sections
14-3-6 and
14-3-7 of this title, except that the board shall be supplemented with two (2)
additional members as described in this section for purposes of appeals under
this article.
   D.   Service Of Notice And Order: Service of the notice and order shall be
made upon all persons entitled thereto either personally or by mailing a copy
of such notice and order by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, to each such person at such person's last known address. If no
address of any such person is known to the building official, then a copy of
the notice and order shall be so mailed, addressed to such person, at the
address of the building involved in the proceedings, and a summary of the
notice and order shall be published in a newspaper as defined in section 618.3
of the Iowa Code published in and having general circulation in the city. The
failure of any such person to receive such notice shall not affect the validity
of any proceedings taken under this section. Service by certified mail in the
manner herein provided shall be effective on the date of mailing.
   E.   Proof Of Service Of Notice And Order: Proof of service of the notice
and order shall be certified to at the time of service by a written declaration
under penalty of perjury executed by the persons affecting service, declaring
the time, date, and manner in which service was made. The declaration, together
with any receipt card returned in acknowledgment of receipt by certified mail,
or affidavit of publication, shall be affixed to the copy of the notice and
order retained by the building official. (Ord. 6-08, 2-4-2008)
14-1I-7: [RESERVED]:
14-1I-8: LICENSES AND PERMITS:
In addition to any other remedy provided herein or otherwise under law, the
city manager, upon providing notice and an opportunity to be heard, may refuse
to issue to an owner any license or permit provided for by ordinance for a
failure of an owner to comply with this article, and may condition, suspend or
revoke any license or permit provided for by ordinance for a failure of an
owner to comply with this article. (Ord. 6-08, 2-4-2008)
14-1I-9: RESPONSIBLE PARTIES:
Unless otherwise provided by regulations promulgated under the Americans with
disabilities act, all owners shall be jointly and severally responsible for
compliance with this article. (Ord. 6-08, 2-4-2008)
ARTICLE J. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
14-1J-1: International Property Maintenance Code Adopted
14-1J-2: International Property Maintenance Code Amendments
14-1J-3: Rental Licenses
14-1J-4: Priority Category
14-1J-5: Procedure For Hearing Appeal Of Priority Category Status
14-1J-6: Inspection Of Properties Owned By Priority Category
14-1J-7: Housing Appeals And Mediation Board
14-1J-1: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED:
That a certain document, copies of which are on file in the Offices of the
Housing and Community Development Department, being marked and designated as
the International Property Maintenance Code, 2021 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Dubuque Property
Maintenance Code, for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance
of all property, buildings, and structures; by providing the standards for
supplied utilities, facilities, and other physical things and conditions
essential to ensuring that structures are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupancy
and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human
occupancy and use, and the demolition of such existing structures as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions, and terms of said Dubuque Property Maintenance Code are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
legislation, with the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
14-1J-2 of this article. (Ord. 45-19, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 25-23, 5-15-2023)
14-1J-2: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE AMENDMENTS:
TThe following additions, deletions, modifications, or amendments of the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2021 edition, adopted in section
14-1J-1 of this article to read as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. Amended to read:
   101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance
Code of the City of Dubuque, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
Section 103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. Amended to read:
   103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. The Inspection & Construction Services
Division is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as
the code official. The function of the agency shall be the implementation,
administration, and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
Section 104.1. Fees. Amended to read:
   104.1. Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the
Inspection & Construction Services Division will be established by the city
council. Any unpaid penalty, fine, fee, or interest shall constitute a lien on
the real property and may be collected in the same manner as a property tax.
Prior to filing a lien, the City shall send a notice of intent to file a lien
to the owner of the property by first class mail to such owner’s personal or
business mailing address.
Section 109.2 Notice of violation. Amended to read:
   109.2 Notice of violation. The code official shall serve a notice of
violation or order in accordance with Section 111.4 of this code. A notice of
violation is not required in every situation and city staff may issue a
municipal infraction without previously issuing a notice of violation. Such
notice shall be deemed to be properly served where a copy thereof is served in
accordance with any of the methods of service in section 111.4.2 or by first-
class mail to the last known address of the owner or the owner’s authorized
agent.
Section 109.5. Abatement of Violation. Amended to read:
   109.5. Abatement of Violation, Escrow Established.
   A.   Abatement of Violation. The imposition of the penalties herein
described shall not preclude legal action by the City to restrain, correct, or
abate a violation, or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure, or
premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business, or utilization of the
building, structure, or premises.
   B.   Escrow System Established.
      1.   Pursuant to the authority granted in Iowa Code 364.17, the City
hereby creates an escrow system for the deposit of rent which will be applied
to the costs of correcting violations of the codes applicable to residential
rental housing in the City of Dubuque.
      2.   No rent shall be recoverable by the owner, the owner’s authorized
agent, or the lessor of any dwelling which does not comply with the codes
applicable to residential rental housing in the City of Dubuque until such time
as the dwelling does comply with the applicable codes.
      3.   If other methods have failed, the code official may contract to have
work done as necessary to remedy violations of the applicable codes at a
residential rental property, the cost of which shall be assessed to the owner
or lessor and constitute a lien on the property; or be paid using the funds
deposited into the escrow system for the cost of correcting violations.
      4.   Escrow Order and Payment Requirement:
         a.   An escrow order will be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner, the owner’s authorized agent, or the lessor, the first
lienholder, and the tenant. A copy will be posted at the premises.
         b.   Upon receipt of an escrow order, tenants shall pay their rent to
the City which will hold the funds in escrow as provided herein. When rent is
placed in escrow, neither the owner, the owner’s authorized agent, nor the
lessor may recover rent from the tenant.
         c.   The effective date of the escrow order is fourteen (14) days from
the date of the order.
         d.   A first lienholder may submit proof of an “Assignment of Rents”
to the City. The City will adjust the escrow order to limit escrow collection
of rents to the amount above the amount of the monthly mortgage payment due to
the first lienholder. Unless otherwise required by law, the lienholder shall be
responsible for collecting rents below the escrow amount.
         e.   The owner, the owner’s authorized agent, the lessor, or the first
lienholder may appeal an escrow order to the Housing Appeals and Mediation
Board.
         f.   If the Housing Appeals and Mediation Board adjusts or overturns
the escrow order, the funds so adjusted shall be released to the owner, the
owner’s authorized agent, or the lessor and shall be payable within fourteen
(14) days.
      5.   An escrow order shall be stayed pending an appeal by an owner, the
owner’s authorized agent, or the lessor.
      6.   The City shall develop a policy outlining the parameters and
procedures for initiation of an escrow order. Such policy shall be on file with
the Inspection and Construction Service Division and available to the public
for review.
Section 107 Means of Appeal. Amended to read:
   Section 107 Means of Appeal.
   107.1 General Any person directly affected by a decision of the code
official or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the right to
appeal to the applicable board of appeals, provided a written application for
appeal is filed within 20 days after the day the decision, notice, or order was
served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means.
Section 108 Board of Appeal. Amended to read:
   Section 108 Boards of Appeals
   108.1 General. There will be two boards for hearing appeals on matters
covered by the Dubuque Property Maintenance Code.
      1.   The Building Code Advisory and Appeal Board will hear appeals of
decisions or determinations made by the code official relative to
interpretation of this code. The Building Code Advisory and Appeal Board will
use the provisions of
14-1A-6 of the City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances for the handling of appeals.
      2.   The Housing Appeals and Mediation Board will hear appeals regarding
repair deadlines, nuisance abatement orders, and landlord/tenant disputes
regarding property access, nuisance abatement, and rent abatement. The Housing
Appeals and Mediation Board will use the provisions of
14-1J-7 of the City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances for the handling of appeals.
Section 202. Definitions. Amended to add definitions for building official and
modify the definition of code official:
   Building Official. See “Code Official”.
   Code Official. The officer, officers, or other designated authorities
charged with the administration and enforcement of this code, or any duly
authorized representative. Any reference to building official in this code
refers to code official.
   Habitable Space. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, or eating.
Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces, and similar
areas are not considered habitable spaces.
Section 302.3. Sidewalks And Driveways. Amended to read:
   302.3. Sidewalks And Driveways. Sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways,
parking spaces, and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair and
maintained free from hazardous conditions. Hazardous conditions are any
condition stated in the City of Dubuque’s Standards for Defective Sidewalks/
Approaches. Snow/ice removal shall comply with section 302.3.1 of this code.
   302.3.1 Snow/Ice Removal. The owner of the premises shall be responsible for
snow/ice removal from sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces,
and similar areas immediately after the snowfall ends and no longer than 24
hours after the snow event.
   Exception: Pursuant to Iowa Code § 562A.15, a landlord may enter into an
agreement, in certain circumstances, with a tenant for maintenance in which
case the tenant will be responsible for complying with this section. Upon
request of the city, a landlord must provide a copy of the written agreement to
the code official. Responsibility for a violation will default to the property
owner if the requested documentation is not provided within five (5) days of
the date of service of the notice of violation.
Section 302.4. Weeds. Amended to read:
   302.4. Weeds. Premises and exterior property shall be maintained in
accordance with section
6-8-2 of the City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances.
   Exception: Pursuant to Iowa Code § 562A.15, a landlord may enter into an
agreement, in certain circumstances, with a tenant for maintenance in which
case the tenant will be responsible for complying with section
6-8-2 of the City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances. Upon request of the city, a
landlord must provide a copy of the written agreement to the code official.
Responsibility for a violation will default to the property owner if the
requested documentation is not provided within five (5) days of the date of
service of the notice of violation.
Section 302.8. Motor Vehicles. Amended to read:
   302.8. Motor Vehicles. See sections
16-7-1-3 and
16-14-5 of the City of Dubuque Code of Ordinances.
Section 303.2. Enclosures. Amended to read:
   303.2 Enclosures. All private swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas, which are
capable of containing water more than 24 inches (610 mm) in depth, shall be
completely surrounded by a fence or barrier not less than 48 inches (1219 mm)
in height above the finished ground level measured on the side of the barrier
away from the pool. Gates and doors in such barriers shall be self-closing and
self-latching. Where the self-latching device is less than 54 inches (1372 mm)
above the bottom of the gate, the release mechanism shall be located on the
pool side of the gate. Self-closing and self-latching gates shall be maintained
such that the gate will positively close and latch when released from an open
position of 6 inches (152 mm) from the gatepost. An existing pool enclosure
shall not be removed, replaced, or changed in a manner that reduces its
effectiveness as a safety barrier.
Section 304.2. Protective Treatment. Amended to read:
   304.2. Protective Treatment. Exterior surfaces, including but not limited to
doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks, and
fences, shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other
than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by
painting or other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking, or
chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted, regardless of whether
any such surface consists of or contains decay-resistant wood. For avoidance of
doubt, once an exterior wood surface consisting of or containing decay-
resistant wood has been painted, the paint must be maintained as provided in
this code. Siding and masonry joints, as well as those between the building
envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors, and skylights, shall be
maintained weather resistant and water tight. Metal surfaces subject to rust or
corrosion shall be coated to inhibit such rust or corrosion. Oxidation stains
and rust shall be removed from exterior surfaces when oxidation stains or rust
compromises the function of the building component to perform as designed.
Surfaces designed for stabilization by oxidation are exempt from this
requirement.
Section 304.3. Address Identification. Amended to add:
   Exception: The fire official may approve nonconforming address
identification.
Section 304.14. Insect Screens. Insert: May 1 to November 1.
Section 304.18.1. Doors. Amended to read:
   304.18.1. Doors. Doors providing access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit, or
housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be equipped with a lock
designed to be readily openable from the side from which egress is to be made
without the need for keys, special knowledge, or special effort. Such locks
shall be installed according to the manufacturer’s specifications and
maintained in good working order.
Section 305.3. Interior Surfaces. Amended to read:
   305.3. Interior Surfaces.
   A.   Interior surfaces, including windows and doors, shall be maintained in
good, clean, and sanitary condition. Peeling, chipping, loose, flaking, or
abraded paint shall be repaired, removed, or covered. Cracked or loose plaster,
decayed wood, and other defective surface conditions shall be corrected.
   B.   All residential properties receiving federal assistance must be in
compliance with the Lead Safe Housing Rule at 24 CFR 35 and the Lead-Based
Paint Poisoning Prevention Act at 42 USC 4822. The owner of federally assisted
units must provide certification that the dwelling is in accordance with said
regulations. If the federally assisted unit was constructed prior to 1978, upon
occupancy a notice must be provided which outlines the lead-based paint
regulations, the hazards of lead-based paint poisoning, the symptoms and
treatment of lead poisoning, and the precautions to be taken against lead
poisoning.
   C.   All residential property must comply with the Residential Lead-Based
Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992, requiring the disclosure of known
information on lead-based paint and lead-based paint hazards before the sale or
lease of certain housing built before 1978.
Section 308.2.1. Rubbish Storage Facilities. Amended to add:
   Exception: Pursuant to Iowa Code §562A.15 a landlord may enter into an
agreement, in certain circumstances, with a tenant for maintenance in which
case the tenant will be responsible for compliance with this provision. Upon
request of the city, a landlord must provide a copy of the written agreement.
Responsibility for a violation will default to the property owner if the
requested documentation is not provided within five (5) days of the date of
service of the notice of violation.
Section 309. Pest Elimination. Amended to read:
   309.1 Infestation. Structures shall be kept free from the infestation of
insects, rodents, or other pests. Structures in which insects, rodents, or
other pests are found shall be promptly treated by approved processes that will
not be injurious to human health. After pest elimination, proper precautions
shall be taken to prevent reinfestation.
   309.1.1 Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for pest
elimination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
   309.1.2 Occupant. The occupant of any structure shall cooperate with the
reasonable pest elimination efforts of the owner or owner's authorized agent.
   309.2 Single occupant. The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-
tenant nonresidential structure shall be responsible for pest elimination on
the premises.
   Exception: Where the infestation is caused by defects in the structure the
owner shall be responsible for pest elimination.
   309.3 Multiple occupancy. The owner of a structure containing two or more
dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house, or a nonresidential
structure shall be responsible for pest elimination. If infestation is caused
by failure of an occupant of a single dwelling unit to prevent such infestation
in the area occupied, the occupant and owner shall be responsible for pest
elimination.
Section 404.4.2. Deleted.
Section 404.4.3. Water Closet Accessibility. Amended to read as follows:
      404.4.3. Water Closet Accessibility. Every bedroom in a dwelling unit
shall have access to not less than one water closet and lavatory located in the
same story as the bedroom or an adjacent story.
Section 602.3. Heat Supply. Insert: September 15 to May 15.
Section 602.4. Occupiable Work Spaces. Insert: September 15 to May 15.
Section 602.5. Room Temperature Measurement. Amended to read:
   602.5. Room Temperature Measurement. The required room temperatures shall be
measured three (3) feet (914 mm) above the floor, at an interior wall.
Section 605.2. Receptacles. Amended to add:
   Every habitable space in a dwelling shall contain not less than two separate
and remote receptacle outlets. Every laundry area shall contain not less than
one grounding-type receptacle or a receptacle with a ground fault circuit
interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain not less than one receptacle. All
receptacle outlets within six feet (6') of any water source shall have ground
fault circuit interrupter (GFCI) protection. All receptacle outlets shall have
the appropriate faceplate cover for the location.
   Exception: In lieu of every habitable space in a dwelling containing two
separate and remote receptacle outlets, one receptacle and a separate
permanently installed light fixture is allowable.
Section 702.4. Emergency escape openings. Amended to read:
   702.4. Emergency escape and rescue openings. Basements, habitable attics,
and every sleeping room shall not have less than one operable emergency escape
and rescue opening. Where basements contain one or more sleeping rooms, an
emergency escape and rescue opening shall be required in each sleeping room.
Emergency escape and rescue openings shall open directly into a public way, or
to a yard or court having a minimum width of 36 inches (914 mm) that opens to a
public way. Emergency escape and rescue openings shall have minimum dimensions
in accordance with 702.4.1 through 704.2.3 of this code.
   Exception: Window replacements permitted between April 11, 2016 and the
effective date of this ordinance that serve as the required emergency escape
and rescue opening will be allowed to remain as long as they meet the following
requirements:
   a.   Window was permitted as required by the City of Dubuque
   b.   Window was approved as code compliant as documented by the City of
Dubuque.
   702.4.1 Minimum size. Emergency escape and rescue openings shall have a net
clear opening of not less than 4.0 square feet (0.370 m2).
   702.4.2 Minimum dimensions. The minimum net clear opening height dimension
shall be 22 inches (558 mm). The minimum net clear opening width dimension
shall be 20 inches (508 mm). The net clear opening dimensions shall be the
result of normal operation of the opening.
   702.4.3 Maximum height from floor. Emergency escape and rescue openings
shall have the bottom of the clear opening not greater than 48 inches (1219 mm)
above the floor.
   Exception: An existing finished sill height may exceed 48 inches (1219 mm)
above the floor if the following conditions are met:
      a.   A platform capable of supporting a live load of 300 pounds shall be
permanently affixed at the interior of the structure. This platform shall be no
lower than 20 inches (508 mm) above the floor and no higher than 36 inches (914
mm) above the floor. The distance from the platform to the bottom of the clear
opening shall not exceed 36 inches (914 mm). The platform shall extend outward
from the wall a minimum of 18 inches (457 mm) and shall be a minimum of 36
inches (914 mm) wide or as wide as the clear openable width of the window,
whichever is greater, or another approved method/platform.
      b.   The building is equipped with smoke alarms installed in accordance
with Section R314 of the International Residential Code in one- and two-family
dwellings, or Section 907.2.10 of the International Building Code for all other
structures, regardless of the valuation of the alteration.
   704.6.3 Power source. Amended to read:
   704.6.3 Power source.
   704.6.3.1 General.
   Single-station smoke alarms shall receive their primary power the building
wiring provided that such wiring is served from a commercial source and shall
be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms with integral strobes that are
not equipped with battery backup shall be connected to an emergency electrical
system. Smoke alarms shall emit a signal when the batteries are low. Wiring
shall be permanent and without a disconnecting switch other than as required
for overcurrent protection.
   Exceptions:
      1.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in existing
buildings where construction is not taking place, provided that the battery is
nonremovable, nonreplaceable and powers the alarm for at least ten years.
      2.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in
buildings that are not served from a commercial power source, provided that the
battery is nonremovable, nonreplaceable and powers the alarm for at least ten
years.
      3.   Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in existing
areas of buildings undergoing alterations or repairs that do not result in the
removal of interior walls or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless
there is an attic, crawl space or basement available that could provide access
for building wiring without the removal of interior finishes, provided that the
battery is nonremovable, nonreplaceable and powers the alarm for at least ten
years.
   704.6.3.2 Battery-Powered Smoke Alarms in Federally Assisted Housing.
      After December 23, 2024, battery-powered smoke alarms listed in
accordance with UL 217 must be powered by a nonremovable, nonreplaceable
battery that powers the alarm for at least ten years if installed in any of the
following federally assisted housing:
      1.   Public Housing, Tenant-Based Assistance, And Project-Based
Assistance -The United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.)
      2.   Supportive Housing For The Elderly .-Section 202(j) of the Housing
Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q(j))
      3.   Supportive Housing For Persons With Disabilities -Section 811(j) of
the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013(j))
      4.   Housing Opportunities For Persons With AIDS.-Section 856 of the
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12905)
      5.   Rural Housing.-Title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1471 et
seq.)
      6.   Farm Labor Housing Direct Loans & Grants.-Section 516 of the Housing
Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1486)
   704.6.3.3 Battery-Powered Smoke Alarm Replacement.
      After January 1, 2025, a battery-powered smoke alarm listed in accordance
with UL 217 that replaces an existing battery-powered smoke alarm must be
powered by a nonremovable, nonreplaceable battery that powers the alarm for at
least ten years.
      Exception: The nonremovable, nonreplaceable battery requirements do not
apply to a fire alarm, smoke detector, smoke alarm, or ancillary component that
is electronically connected as a part of a centrally monitored or supervised
alarm system; that uses a low-power, radio frequency wireless communication
signal.
   704.6.3.4 Battery-Powered Smoke Alarm Compliance Date.
      On January 1, 2030 all existing battery-powered smoke alarms must be
powered by a nonremovable, nonreplaceable battery that powers the alarm for at
least ten years.
Appendix A - Do not adopt
Appendix B - Do not adopt
(Ord. 30-16, 6-20-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; amd. Ord. 34-17, 7-5-2017; Ord. 45-19,
9-3-2019; Ord. 35-20, 9-21-2020; Ord. 17-21, 5-3-2021; Ord. 36-21, 10-18-2021;
Ord. 19-22, 5-2-2022; Ord. 25-23, 5-15-2023; Ord. 49-24, 9-3-2024; Ord. 60-24,
11-4-2024)
14-1J-3: RENTAL LICENSES:
   A.   Rental License Required: No property owner, manager, or licensed real
estate professional may let to another for rent and/or occupancy any dwelling,
dwelling unit, housekeeping unit, rooming house, rooming unit, or sleeping
unit, as defined by the Property Maintenance Code and hereinafter cumulatively
referred to as “rental unit” in the City unless such person holds a current
rental license issued by the City Manager in the name of the property owner,
manager, or licensed real estate professional for the specific rental unit.
   B.   Application Requirements: Completion of a rental license application
must be made by the property owner, manager, or licensed real estate
professional and must include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      1.   Address of the rental unit(s), including correct unit
identifications.
      2.   Number and type of rental units in the structure.
      3.   Number of units, in the structure, for which housing choice vouchers
are accepted.
      4.   Owner’s name and contact information, including:
         a.   Mailing address.
         b.   Telephone number during normal business hours.
         c.   Telephone number in the event of an emergency.
         d.   E-mail address, if available.
      5.   If the property owner has retained a property manager the property
owner must provide the following information:
         a.   Property manager’s name.
         b.   Property manager’s mailing address.
         c.   Property manager’s telephone number during normal business hours.
         d.   Property manager’s telephone number in the event of an emergency.
         e.   Property manager’s e-mail address, if applicable.
         f.   A statement that the property manager or real estate professional
has the same authority and responsibility as the property owner for maintaining
the rental unit(s).
      6.   The property owner, manager, or licensed real estate professional
must designate a responsible agent, who resides within fifty (50) miles of the
rental unit for which the license is sought, to represent the property owner,
manager, or licensed real estate professional whenever the property owner,
manager, or licensed real estate professional is not available for maintenance
of, or resides more than fifty (50) miles from, the rental unit for which a
license is sought. The agent must have the same authority and responsibility as
the property owner for maintaining the rental unit(s).
   C.   Duty To Report Changes: The property owner or registered manager or
real estate professional is responsible to inform the City of any subsequent
changes to any information on the rental license application which has changed
at the time of such changes, and at any time changes occur after the initial
registration.
   D.   Rental License Fees: The City Council, by resolution, establishes a fee
schedule to defray the costs of inspections, enforcement, and administration of
the provisions of this Code.
   E.   Rental License Term:
      1.   Rental licenses will be issued for a term of two (2) years. A rental
license issued during the course of the two (2)-year license term will be put
on the standard cycle for rental license expiration which results in longest
license term, which may result in an initial rental license term of less than
two (2) years.
      2.   Exception: In year 2025, approximately fifty percent (50%) of the
total number of rental licenses will be issued for a one (1)-year term, to
expire on December 31, 2025. The intent of this division is to have
approximately one half (0.5) of the total rental licenses renew on subsequent
alternating biennial years.
   F.   Annual License Renewal:
      1.   Rental licenses shall be renewed every two years, upon notice issued
at the beginning of the calendar year following expiration of existing rental
license(s). The rental license renewal application will be sent to the property
owner, or registered manager, or licensed real estate professional holding the
rental license(s).
      2.   Application for renewal of a rental license shall be made prior to
March 1 of the year following expiration of an existing rental license.
   G.   Fees Due on license renewal: Rental license fees will be invoiced with
the rental license renewal application at the start of the calendar year
following rental license expiration. Rental license fees must be paid by March
1st of the renewal year. Failure to pay required fees is a violation of this
Code and may result in monetary penalties, license suspension, license
revocation, issuance of a notice to vacate to tenants, and/or issuance of
municipal infractions.
   H.   Rental License Not Transferable: Rental licenses are not transferable
from one property to another. It is the responsibility of the property owner,
manager, or licensed real estate professional holding a rental license to
provide the City Manager written notice, within five (5) working days, of
transferring or otherwise disposing of ownership or control of the property.
The notice must include available information on the buyer. Prepaid rental
license fees are eligible for a refund for the period that the property is no
longer owned by the license holder. Rental license fee refund requests must be
made in writing and include all required information per department policy. It
is the responsibility of the property buyer to license the property in their
name within five (5) working days of acquisition or otherwise receiving
ownership or control of the property.
   I.   Conditions Of Rental Licenses: The City Manager is hereby authorized to
issue and renew a rental license in the name of the applicant property owner,
manager, or licensed real estate professional, provided the following criteria
are met:
      1.   Property Maintenance Code Warranty: The rental unit is warranted by
the property owner, manager, or licensed real estate professional to
substantially comply with the Property Maintenance Code.
      2.   Fees: All fees required pursuant to the issuance of a rental license
are paid in full to the City.
      3.   Successful Rental Property Management Class:
         a.   The property owner or manager has completed the Successful Rental
Property Management Class (the program) or a program of continuing education
approved by the City Manager.
         b.   Until such time as the property owner or manager has completed
the program or an equivalent program of continuing education approved by the
City Manager, only a conditional rental license may be issued.
         c.   Licensed real estate professionals are exempted from the program
attendance requirement.
         d.   The City Manager may waive the program requirement upon the
submission of a written request by a property owner, manager, or licensed real
estate professional and after finding that:
         (1)   The property is properly licensed by the City of Dubuque;
         (2)   The property has no history of priority category designation or
any founded code violations within the previous twelve (12) months; and
         (3)   A waiver will not provide the property owner with an unfair
advantage in a competitive real estate market.
      4.   Criminal Background Checks:
         a.   The property owner, manager, or licensed real estate professional
agrees to conduct criminal background checks for all prospective tenants whose
tenancy commences on or after July 1, 2011. A background check may be performed
using the City's background check service or by another background check
service approved by the City Manager. The background checks must be completed
before the prospective tenant's tenancy begins.
         b.   The City Manager may waive the criminal background check
requirement upon the submission of a written request by a property owner,
manager, or licensed real estate professional and after a finding that:
         (1)   The property is properly licensed by the City of Dubuque;
         (2)   The property has no history of priority category designation or
any founded code violations within the previous twelve (12) months; and
         (3)   A waiver will not create a danger to nearby residents.
      5.   Rental Property Inspections:
         a.   The property owner, manager, or licensed real estate professional
shall make a rental property available for inspection by the City of Dubuque
and shall comply with the Iowa Code requirements for tenant notification.
         b.   The City Manager shall develop a written Rental Housing
Inspection Program which shall govern the cycle, frequency, recordkeeping,
conditions, and self-inspection and self-certification eligibility of rental
inspections.
      6.   Housing Choice Voucher Information: The property owner, manager, or
licensed real estate professional must provide information at the time of
rental license renewal for each structure, on the number of units, by
structure, owned or managed by the property owner, manager, or licensed real
estate professional which accept housing choice vouchers.
   J.   Suspension And Revocation Of Rental License:
      1.   Causes: The City Manager may, for good cause, suspend or revoke a
rental license for a rental unit, and in the case of a multi-family dwelling,
suspend the license as to one or more rental units for a period not to exceed
one year for any of the following:
         a.   Conviction, judgment, plea of guilty, or finding of guilt of the
licensee for violation of any provision of the Property Maintenance Code;
         b.   Misrepresentation by the licensee of any material fact in the
application for a rental license;
         c.   Refusal by the licensee to permit inspection of the licensed
rental unit(s) by authorized City personnel;
         d.   Nonpayment of the fee for renewal of the rental license;
         e.   Failure to attend the Successful Rental Property Management
Class;
         f.   Failure to perform a required criminal background check on an
applicant for tenancy after July 1, 2011; or
         g.   Failure of a priority category to comply with an inspection
schedule or pay inspection fees. Tenants will be relocated from the rental unit
at the priority category’s expense.
      2.   Opportunity To Appeal: Prior to any suspension or revocation under
this subsection, the City Manager must give notice in writing to the property
owner, manager, or licensed real estate professional and provide for an
opportunity to appeal.
      3.   Period Of Revocation Or Suspension: During the period of revocation
or suspension, a unit for which the rental license was suspended or revoked may
not be relicensed.
      4.   Notice To Licensee: The City Manager shall cause to be issued to the
licensee a notice that the license is suspended or revoked, setting forth the
reason(s) therefor. The notice shall be sent by certified United States mail to
the licensee at the address on file with the City Manager.
      5.   Appeal: The licensee may appeal the decision of the City Manager to
the Housing Appeals and Mediation Board. An appeal must be filed, in writing,
within twenty (20) days from the date of the notice of suspension or
revocation.
      6.   Notice To Tenant: Upon suspension or revocation the City Manager
must give written notice of the suspension or revocation of the license to each
tenant, requiring the tenant to vacate the premises within a time frame
determined by the City Manager if determined necessary. Any tenant who fails to
vacate the premises after such time shall be subject to penalties under title
1, chapter 4 of this Code.
      7.   Relocation Of Tenants: If suspension or revocation of a rental
license is the responsibility of the property owner, manager, or licensed real
estate professional, as determined by the City Manager, then any displaced
tenants shall be relocated at the property owner, manager, or licensed real
estate professional’s expense and the City Manager is authorized to assess the
rental property for any costs incurred by the City.
   K.   Relationship Of Rental License To Other Codes: The issuance of a rental
license for a rental unit does not in any way signify or imply the rental unit
conforms with Iowa law or this Code, nor does the issuance of a license relieve
the property owner, manager, or licensed real estate professional of the
responsibility for compliance with applicable Iowa law and this Code.
   L.   Rent Abatement:
      1.   The code official may order rent abated when the code official
determines that the owner or lessor has, after issuance of a notice of
violation of this chapter:
         a.   Failed to provide an essential service (water, sewer,
electricity, heat);
         b.   Failed to remedy a condition that poses a substantial risk to the
health or safety of the tenant; or
         c.   Rented a dwelling unit without a rental license, including
renting under suspension or revocation.
      2.   A rent abatement order means that the owner or lessor may not
recover rent from the tenant. Rent shall be abated until the condition for
which rent abatement was ordered has, in the judgment of the code official,
been remedied.
      3.   The code official shall provide a copy of the rent abatement order
to the owner or lessor at the address on the rental permit and to the tenant by
U.S. mail and by posting the entrance door to dwelling unit. Notice of
termination of the rent abatement order will be given in the same manner.
      4.   Rent abatement shall be stayed upon filing of an appeal by the owner
or lessor.
      5.   The City shall develop a policy outlining the parameters and
procedures for initiation of rent abatement which shall be on file with the
Inspection and Construction Services Division and available to the public for
review.
   M.   Licensed Rental Units:
      1.   All rental units are subject to regular inspection and follow up re-
inspection as necessary.
      2.   Not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to a scheduled
inspection, the City will mail to the license holder or the license holder’s
authorized representative, by regular mail, notice of the date and time of the
scheduled inspection. If the license holder or an authorized representative of
the license holder is not present at the time of the scheduled inspection, and
the inspector is unable to obtain entry to the rental unit, a second inspection
will be scheduled. The license holder shall be responsible for notifying all
affected tenants of each scheduled inspection.
         a.   The license holder may cancel a scheduled inspection once without
payment of a rescheduling fee, provided the city manager or the city manager’s
designee is notified of the cancellation not less than two (2) business days
prior to the scheduled inspection. (Ord. 21-18, 7-2-2018; amd. Ord. 9-19, 1-22-
2019; Ord. 36-21, 10-18-2021; Ord. 25-23, 5-15-2023; Ord. 63-24, - -2024)
14-1J-4: PRIORITY CATEGORY:
   A.   Priority Category Designated: The City Manager may designate a property
owner, manager, or licensed real estate professional a priority category for
purposes of the Property Maintenance Code if three (3) times within a period of
twelve (12) consecutive months the property owner, manager, or licensed real
estate professional:
      1.   Has a rental license suspended;
      2.   Has a rental license revoked;
      3.   Is noncompliant with Property Maintenance Code orders in excess of
ninety (90) days without either an extension of time or variance from the
Housing Board of Appeals or good faith progress as determined by the City
Manager;
      4.   Fails to perform a mandated criminal background check on a tenant;
or
      5.   Receives a citation for a Property Maintenance Code violation.
   B.   Notice Of Priority Category Status: Whenever the City Manager
designates a property owner, manager, or licensed real estate professional to
be a priority category under subsection A of this section, the City Manager
must give notice of the designation to the property owner, manager, or licensed
real estate professional responsible. Each notice must:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Include a listing of the basis for designating the property owner,
manager, or licensed real estate professional a priority category;
      3.   Be served upon the property owner, manager, or licensed real estate
professional by delivering the same at the property owner, manager, or licensed
real estate professional's residence, office, or place of business in person or
by mailing by certified mail or regular mail to such address. All such mail
must bear indicia requesting return to sender or forwarding address if not
deliverable as addressed; and
      4.   Contain a statement that:
         a.   The property owner, manager, or licensed real estate professional
may appeal from the notice of the City Manager to the Housing Board of Appeals;
         b.   An appeal must be made in writing and filed with the City Manager
within twenty (20) days from the date of service of the designation notice; and
         c.   A failure to appeal will constitute a waiver of all rights to an
appeal.
      5.   This section may not be interpreted to prevent the enforcement and
imposition of fines and penalties for Property Maintenance Code violations.
(Ord. 52-16, 10-17-2016)
14-1J-5: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING APPEAL OF PRIORITY CATEGORY STATUS:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal: A property owner, manager, or licensed real estate
professional designated a priority category by the City Manager under section
14-1J-4 of this article may appeal to the Housing Board of Appeals for a
reconsideration of such status. An appeal must be filed in writing within
twenty (20) days of the notice of designation as a priority category. The
notice of appeal must include the following:
      1.   Name and address of the appellant;
      2.   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of any material
facts claimed to support the contentions of the appellant;
      3.   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought, and the reasons why it is claimed the order appealed from should be
reversed; and
      4.   The signature of the appellant and the appellant's mailing address.
   B.   Appeal Filing Fee: At the time of filing the notice of appeal, the
appellant must pay therewith a filing fee in an amount set by the city manager.
If the board reverses the designation, the fee will be fully refunded.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: Upon receipt of a notice of appeal filed pursuant to
this section, the chairperson of the board must fix a date, time, and place for
hearing the appeal, within sixty (60) days from the date the appeal was filed,
unless agreed upon by the appellant and city. Written notice of the time and
place of the hearing must be given at least ten (10) days prior to the date of
the hearing to the appellant either by causing a copy of such notice to be
personally delivered to the appellant or by mailing a copy thereof to the
appellant's address shown on the notice of appeal.
   D.   Waiver: The failure to file a notice of appeal in accordance with this
section constitutes a waiver of the appeal.
   E.   Appeals Process: The housing board of appeals shall adopt and make
available to the public through the secretary procedures under which a hearing
will be conducted. The procedures shall not require compliance with strict
rules of evidence, but shall mandate that only relevant information be
received.
   F.   Appeals Board Action: Following the hearing, the housing board of
appeals may, by a majority vote, affirm the designation or reverse the
designation. (Ord. 30-16, 6-20-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
14-1J-6: INSPECTION OF PROPERTIES OWNED BY PRIORITY CATEGORY:
The city manager or the city manager's designee may order the inspection of any
or all properties owned or managed by a priority category. The fee for such
inspection will be as set by the city manager. The properties may be put on an
accelerated inspection schedule by the city manager or the city manager's
designee. If a priority category fails to comply with an inspection schedule or
pay any inspection fee, the rental license may be suspended or revoked and the
tenants relocated from the unit at the priority category's expense. (Ord. 30-
16, 6-20-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
14-1J-7: HOUSING APPEALS AND MEDIATION BOARD:
   A.   Board Created: There is hereby created the Housing Appeals and
Mediation Board.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the board is to hear appeals relative to repair
deadlines and nuisance abatement orders, decisions, or determinations made by
the code official and landlord/tenant disputes regarding property access,
nuisance abatement and rent abatement due to the failure of the responsible
party to correct city code violations in a timely manner.
   C.   Internal Organization And Rules: The board may adopt rules and
regulations to govern its organizational procedures as may be necessary and
which are not in conflict with this code or the Iowa Code.
   D.   Procedures For Operation: All administrative, personnel, accounting,
budgetary, and procurement policies of the city govern the board in all its
operations.
   E.   Membership:
      1.   The board comprises five (5) residents of the city, appointed by the
city council.
      2.   Special Experience And Training Qualifications: The housing appeals
and mediation board shall be comprised of residents with an interest in fair
and equitable housing with emphasis on balance of landlords, tenants and other
interested citizens.
   F.   Oath: Each person, upon appointment to the board, must execute an oath
of office at the first meeting of the board following appointment or at the
city clerk’s office any time prior to the first meeting of the board.
   G.   Terms: The term of office for members of the board is three (3) years
or until such member's successor is appointed and qualified.
   H.   Vacancies: Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original
appointments.
   I.   Officers/Organization: The board must choose annually a chairperson and
vice chairperson, each to serve a term of one year. The code official or the
code official's designee is the secretary of the board. The board must fill a
vacancy among its officers for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term.
   J.   Meetings:
      1.   The board shall meet upon notice from the chairman, within not less
than ten (10) days and not more than ninety (90) days of the filing of an
appeal or a request for mediation, at stated periodic meetings, or at the
written request of a majority of the members.
      2.   Attendance:
         a.   In the event a member of the board has been absent for three (3)
or more consecutive meetings of the board, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the board to recommend to the
city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement appointed.
         b.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
      3.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings
of the board must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the board, or by the next regularly scheduled city council
meeting, whichever is later.
      4.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the board must be in attendance to
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. An affirmative vote of a
majority of the members present and voting is necessary for the adoption of any
motion or resolution.
   K.   Compensation: Members serve without compensation, provided that they
may receive reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on
official board business within the limits established in the city
administrative policies and budget.
   L.   Removal: Except as provided in subsection
14-1J-7 J2 of this chapter, the city council may remove any member for good
cause.
   M.   Powers:
      1.   Repair Timeline Appeals:
         a.   An appeal of repair deadlines shall be based on a claim that
specific code violations cannot be corrected in the timeframe prescribed by the
inspector. The board shall evaluate whether the violations can be corrected in
the time frame prescribed by the inspector. The board may uphold the timeframe
prescribed by the inspector or grant an extension of time not to exceed nine
(9) months from the date of the notice of violation.
         b.   In no event shall the board have the authority to amend the
violation as determined by the inspector or wave requirements of this code.
      2.   Nuisance Abatement:
         a.   An appeal of a nuisance abatement order shall be based on the
claim that the true intent of Title 6, Chapters 4 and 8 related to rubbish and
garbage have not been correctly interpreted or the provisions don’t fully
apply. The board may uphold the finding of a nuisance and ordered abatement,
modify the deadline for nuisance abatement, or reverse the nuisance designation
based on determination that the condition is not a violation of the code.
         b.   In no event shall the board have the authority to waive the
requirements of this code.
      3.   Mediation:
         a.   An application for mediation shall be based on the claim that
either the landlord or tenant have failed to fulfill their duties as required
by the lease between the parties, the Iowa Code, or the city code.
         b.   The City will work directly with magistrates within the Iowa
District Court in and for Dubuque County to best serve the needs of the
involved parties and encourage building positive landlord tenant relationships
for the betterment of the community during an eviction proceeding.
         c.   The board will hear all issues related to the requested
mediation, ask questions necessary to develop a full understanding of the
issues, guide participants to develop mutually agreeable solutions, and assist
in recording binding written agreements between the parties.
   Failure to resolve issues in mediation will result in a referral to the
appropriate jurisdictional authority (court) along with a copy of the mediation
record and any exhibits or evidence provided by parties of the mediation.
      4.   All appeal hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the
procedures specified in this Code.
   N.   Application For Appeal:
      1.   Any person affected by a nuisance abatement order or repair timeline
decision of the code official shall have the right to appeal to the housing
appeals and mediation board, provided a written application for appeal is filed
within twenty (20) days after the day the decision, notice, or order was served
and prior to the deadline on the notice.
      2.   An application for appeal shall dispute the timeline necessary to
complete repair or the designation of a condition as a nuisance.
   O.   Disqualification Of Member: A member shall not hear an appeal in which
that member has a personal, professional, or financial interest.
   P.   Postponed Hearing: Either the City, the party appealing, or a mediation
participant may request a postponement of a proceeding subject to the approval
of the Code official. In no event may a postponement exceed ninety (90) days
beyond the date of the appeal. (Ord. 30-16, 6-20-2016, eff. 7-1-2016; amd. Ord.
34-17, 7-5-2017; Ord. 50-20, 12-7-2020; Ord. 32-24, 6-17-2024)
ARTICLE K. INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
14-1K-1: International Existing Building Code Adopted
14-1K-2: International Existing Building Code Amendments
14-1K-1: INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
Except as hereinafter added to, deleted, modified or amended, there is hereby
adopted by reference as the existing building code of the City that certain
existing building code known as the International Existing Building Code, 2021
edition, published by the International Code Council, and the provisions of
such existing building code shall be controlling for all matters covered by
such existing building code within the corporate limits of the City and shall
be known as the Dubuque Existing Building Code. A copy of the International
Existing Building Code, 2021 edition, as adopted, shall be on file in the
Office of the City Clerk for public inspection. (Ord. 46-19, 9-3-2019; amd.
Ord. 26-23, 5-15-2023)
14-1K-2: INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following additions, deletions, modifications, or amendments of the
International Existing Building Code, 2021 edition, adopted in section
14-1K-1 of this article to read as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. Amended to read:
   101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Dubuque Building Code,
hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
Section 103.1 Creation Of Enforcement Agency. Amended to read:
   103.1 Creation Of Enforcement Agency. There is hereby established in the
City the Inspection & Construction Services Division, which shall be under the
jurisdiction of the code official.
Section 105.5 Expiration. Amended to read:
   105.5 Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work
on the site authorized by such permit is completed within one year after its
issuance. The building official is authorized to grant, in writing, one or more
extensions of time, for periods of not more than 180 days each. Each extension
shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
Section 112 Means of Appeals. Replaced with: See City of Dubuque Code of
Ordinances section
14-1A-6.
Section 505.3 Replacement window emergency escape and rescue opening. Amended
to read:
   505.3 Replacement window emergency escape and rescue openings. Where windows
are required to provide emergency escape and rescue openings in Group R-2 and
R-3 occupancies regulated by the International Building Code and one- and two-
family dwellings and townhouses regulated by the International Residential
Code, replacement windows shall be permitted to have minimum dimensions in
accordance with Sections 505.3.1 through 505.3.4 of this code, provided the
replacement window meets the following conditions:
   1.   The replacement window is the manufacturer’s largest standard size
window that will fit within the existing frame or existing rough opening;
Provided that the replacement window shall be of a style that provides for the
largest net clear window opening area in the existing frame or existing rough
opening.
   2.   The replacement window is not part of a change of occupancy.
Section 505.3.1 Minimum size. Amended to read:
   505.3.1 Minimum size. Emergency escape and rescue openings shall have a net
clear opening of not less than 4.0 square feet (0.372 m2).
Section 505.3.2 Minimum dimensions. Amended to read:
   505.3.2 Minimum dimensions. The minimum net clear opening height dimension
shall be 22 inches (558 mm). The minimum net clear opening width dimension
shall be 20 inches (508 mm). The net clear opening dimensions shall be the
result of normal operation of the opening.
Section 505.3.3 Maximum height from floor. Amended to read:
   505.3.3 Maximum height from floor. Emergency escape and rescue openings
shall have the bottom of the clear opening not greater than 48 inches (1219 mm)
above the floor.
   Exception: An existing finished sill height may exceed 48 inches (1219 mm)
above the floor if the following conditions are met:
      a.   A platform capable of supporting a live load of 300 pounds shall be
permanently affixed at the interior of the structure. This platform shall be no
lower than 20 inches (508 mm) above the floor and no higher than 36 inches (914
mm) above the floor. The distance from the platform to the bottom of the clear
opening shall not exceed 36 inches (914 mm). The platform shall extend outward
from the wall a minimum of 18 inches (457 mm) and shall be a minimum of 36
inches (914 mm) wide or as wide as the clear openable width of the window,
whichever is greater, or another approved method/platform.
      b.   The building is equipped with smoke alarms installed in accordance
with Section R314 of the International Residential Code in one and two-family
dwellings, or Section 907.2.10 of the International Building Code for all other
structures, regardless of the valuation of the alteration.
Section 505.4 Bars, grilles, covers or screens. Amended to read:
   505.4 Bars, grilles, covers, or screens. Bars, grilles, covers, screens, or
similar devices are permitted to be placed over emergency escape and rescue
openings, bulkhead enclosures, or window wells that serve such openings,
provided all of the following conditions are met:
   1.   Such devices shall be releasable or removable from the inside without
the use of a key, tool, or force greater than that which is required for normal
operation of the escape and rescue opening.
   2.   Where such devices are installed, they shall not reduce the net clear
opening of the emergency escape and rescue openings.
   3.   Smoke alarms shall be installed in accordance with Section R314 of the
International Residential Code in one and two-family dwellings, or Section
907.2.10 of the International Building Code for all other structures,
regardless of the valuation of the alteration.
Section 702.5 Replacement window emergency escape and rescue opening. Amended
to read:
   702.5 Replacement window emergency escape and rescue opening. Where windows
are required to provide emergency escape and rescue openings in Group R-2 and
R-3 occupancies regulated by the International Building Code and one- and two-
family dwellings and townhouses regulated by the International Residential
Code, replacement windows shall be permitted to have minimum dimensions in
accordance with Sections 702.5.1 through 702.5.4 of this code, provided the
replacement window meets the following conditions:
   1.   The replacement window is the manufacturer’s largest standard size
window that will fit within the existing frame or existing rough opening. The
replacement window shall be of a style that provides for the greatest net clear
window opening area in the existing frame or existing rough opening.
   2.   The replacement window is not part of a change of occupancy.
Section 702.5.1 Minimum size. Amended to read:
   702.5.1 Minimum size. Emergency escape and rescue openings shall have a net
clear opening of not less than 4.0 square feet (0.372 m2).
Section 702.5.2 Minimum dimensions. Amended to read:
   702.5.2 Minimum dimensions. The minimum net clear opening height dimension
shall be 22 inches (558 mm). The minimum net clear opening width dimension
shall be 20 inches (508 mm). The net clear opening dimensions shall be the
result of normal operation of the opening.
Section 702.5.3 Maximum height from floor. Amended to read:
   702.5.3 Maximum height from floor. Emergency escape and rescue openings
shall have the bottom of the clear opening not greater than 48 inches (1219 mm)
above the floor.
   Exception: An existing finished sill height may exceed 48 inches (1219 mm)
above the floor if the following conditions are met:
      a.   A platform capable of supporting a live load of 300 pounds shall be
permanently affixed at the interior of the structure. This platform shall be no
lower than 20 inches (508 mm) above the floor and no higher than 36 inches (914
mm) above the floor. The distance from the platform to the bottom of the clear
opening shall not exceed 36 inches (914 mm). The platform shall extend outward
from the wall a minimum of 18 inches (457 mm) and shall be a minimum of 36
inches (914 mm) wide or as wide as the clear openable width of the window,
whichever is greater, or another approved method/platform.
      c.   The building is equipped with smoke alarms installed in accordance
with Section R314 of the International Residential Code in one and two-family
dwellings, or Section 907.2.10 of the International Building Code for all other
structures, regardless of the valuation of the alteration. (Ord. 46-19, 9-3-
2019; amd. Ord. 36-20, 9-21-2020; Ord. 51-20, 12-7-2020; Ord. 18-21, 5-3-2021;
Ord. 26-23, 5-15-2023)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION, DEMOLITION AND MOVING
SECTION:
14-2-1: Permit Required
14-2-2: Application For Permit
14-2-3: Permit Issuance; Generally
14-2-4: Moratorium For Construction Or Other Work On Certain Streets, Areas Or
Facilities
14-2-5: Fees
14-2-6: Special Provisions
14-2-7: Insurance Requirements
14-2-8: Special Requirements
14-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Activities Requiring A Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to: 1) demolish a building or portion thereof; or 2) move a
building from one location to another across private or public property; or 3)
use or occupy the streets or public property for the purpose of erecting,
constructing, enlarging, altering, repairing or remodeling a building or
structure; or 4) for storing or using materials, machinery or equipment in
relation thereto; or for engaging in building construction, demolition or
related operations on adjacent streets or public property, within the city,
unless such person shall have obtained a permit therefor from the city manager
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and of the building code.
   B.   Definitions: For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning given hereto:
    BUILDING: Any structure of more than two hundred (200) square feet used or
intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy, including all
public or private garages, barns, sheds, residential, commercial, educational,
institutional or industrial uses and any accessories thereto. (Ord. 21-10, 3-
15-2010)
14-2-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Application: To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an
application therefor in writing on a form furnished by the building services
division. Every such application shall:
      1.   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is made.
      2.   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done, by legal
description, street address or similar description that will readily identify
and definitely locate the proposed work.
      3.   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
      4.   Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computations and specifications
and other data as required in subsection B of this section.
      5.   Be signed by permittee, or the permittee's authorized agent who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
      6.   Be accompanied by proof of insurance as required by this chapter for
the type of permit desired.
      7.   Contain a plan for the storage of construction materials and
maintenance of the construction site.
      8.   Give such other data and information as may be required by the city
manager. (Ord. 61-12, 11-19-2012)
   B.   Plans And Specifications: Plans, engineering calculations, diagrams and
other data shall be submitted in one or more sets with each application for a
permit. The city manager may require plans, computations, diagrams and
specifications to be prepared and designed by an architect or engineer licensed
by the state to practice as such. Exception: The city manager may waive the
submission of plans, calculations, etc., if the city manager finds that the
nature of the work applied for is such that reviewing of plans is not necessary
to obtain compliance with this chapter.
   C.   Information On Plans And Specifications: Plans, specifications and
diagrams shall be drawn to scale upon substantial paper or cloth and shall be
of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work
proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of this
chapter and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
   D.   Construction On Bluff Land Or Land Adjacent To Bluffs: The application
shall indicate whether the construction is on bluff land or land adjacent to a
bluff. If the construction is on bluff land or land adjacent to a bluff, prior
to the issuance of a permit, the city manager may require the developer to fund
an engineering study or studies, to determine whether the bluff land, land
adjacent to a bluff, or adjacent bluff is sufficiently stable to allow for the
construction or use. If the city manager determines, based upon the engineering
study or studies, that the bluff land, land adjacent to a bluff, or adjacent
bluff is not sufficiently stable to allow for the construction or use, the city
manager may require as a condition of the issuance of the permit such
stabilization or other measures as the engineering study or studies recommend
to make the bluff land, land adjacent to a bluff, or adjacent bluff
sufficiently stable to allow for the construction or use.
   E.   Notice To Adjacent Property Owners: The city manager shall direct that
the applicant send, not less than ten (10) days after the filing of the
application, a notice of the filing of the application by first class mail to
all owners of property adjacent to the property for which the permit is issued,
describing the demolition and the date when demolition will commence. Prior to
the issuance of the permit, the city manager shall verify with the applicant
that the required notice was sent. (Ord. 21-10, 3-15-2010)
14-2-3: PERMIT ISSUANCE; GENERALLY:
   A.   Issuance:
      1.   The application, proof of insurance, plans, specifications, diagrams
and other data filed by an applicant for a permit shall be reviewed by the city
manager. Such plans shall also be reviewed by other departments and divisions
of the city to verify compliance with any applicable laws or requirements under
their jurisdiction. If the city manager finds that the work described in an
application for a permit and the plans, specifications, diagrams and other data
filed therewith conform to the requirements of this chapter and other pertinent
laws and ordinances, and that the fees as established by the city manager have
been paid, the city manager shall issue the permit together with any special
conditions which may be attached to and made a part of the permit.
      2.   Approved plans, specifications and diagrams shall not be changed,
modified or altered without authorization from the city manager, and all work
shall be done in accordance with the approved plans, specifications and
diagrams.
   B.   Validity: The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be construed
to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter or of the Dubuque building code. No permit presuming to give
authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this chapter or code shall be
valid, except insofar as the work or use which it authorized is lawful.
   C.   Expiration:
      1.   Every permit issued by the city manager under the provisions of this
chapter shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the moving or
demolition of the building or structure, or the use of the public property, is
not accomplished during the period of time which is stated on the permit. Such
work or use of public property shall cease upon expiration of the permit and
shall not be recommenced until a new permit has been obtained by revising or
renewing the original application and by payment of a new fee.
      2.   Every moving permit shall be valid only on the moving date or dates
written on the permit. In those instances wherein the moving permittee was
unable to move the building on the specified moving date, the city manager is
authorized to change said moving date; provided, that the moving permittee
shall obtain the approval of other city officials in the same manner as
required for the original moving permit; and further provided, that a fee as
established by the city manager for changing the moving date has been paid to
the building department.
      3.   Every demolition permit shall expire thirty (30) days from the date
of issue, unless the building is part of a demolition project which, because of
its complexity or proportions, will require more time, in which instance the
original permit may be issued for the approved term of the demolition schedule.
Each demolition permit may be renewed for successive additional periods of
thirty (30) days; provided, that a fee is paid for each renewal in the same
amount as the original demolition permit fee.
      4.   Every permit for the use of streets or public property shall expire
on the last day for which the permit was issued, as described on said permit,
and shall be renewed upon the payment of an additional fee to the Building
Department, as established by the City Manager. Failure to renew the permit for
the use of streets or public property shall be considered as due cause for the
City Manager to order all barricades or fences removed and the public property
returned to public availability and use.
   D.   Suspension Or Revocation: The City Manager may, in writing, suspend or
revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this chapter whenever the permit
is issued in error, on the basis of incorrect information supplied, failure to
comply with permit conditions, or in violation of any ordinance. (Ord. 21-10,
3-15-2010)
   E.   Conditions Of Permit: The permit shall outline the conditions under
which the permit was issued and may include, but is not limited to:
      1.   Storage requirements; permit issuance through day one hundred
seventy nine (179): Storage of construction materials must comply with all City
ordinances.
      2.   Storage requirements; day one hundred eighty (180) and beyond: The
permit will contain requirements for the storage of construction materials and
maintenance of the site. The conditions will continue upon a renewal/extension
of a building permit until such time as the project is complete. The City
Manager may require additional storage and maintenance requirements upon the
issuance of a renewal and/or extension of a building permit. (Ord. 61-12, 11-
19-2012)
14-2-4: MORATORIUM FOR CONSTRUCTION OR OTHER WORK ON CERTAIN STREETS, AREAS OR
FACILITIES:
   A.   East-West Corridor Study Area: The City Manager may not issue any
permit for any new construction or substantial enlargement, alteration, repair
or remodeling of any structure, building, or sign in the east-west corridor
study area as shown on the map on file in the Office of the City Clerk, but not
to include demolition or emergency repairs without the approval of the City
Council, from the effective date hereof to August 1, 2025, except where a
vested right to the issuance of such permit accrued prior to the effective date
hereof.
   B.   Off-Premises Sign Study Area: The city manager may not issue any permit
for any new off-premises sign in the corporate limits of the city of Dubuque
from the effective date hereof to March 1, 2026, except where a vested right to
the issuance of such permit accrued prior accrued prior to the effective date
hereof.
(Ord. 37-19, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 26-22, 7-18-2022; Ord. 58-24, 10-7-2024)
14-2-5: FEES:
   A.   Generally: A fee for each moving permit, demolition permit, or permit
for the use of streets or public property shall be paid to the City Manager, as
established by the City Manager.
   B.   Starting Work Prior To Obtaining Permit: Where the moving of a
building, the demolition of a building or the use of public property for which
a permit is required by this chapter is started prior to obtaining said permit,
the fees above specified shall be doubled, but the payment of such double fee
shall not relieve any person from fully complying with the requirements of this
chapter and the Building Code in the execution of the work nor from other fees
or penalties. (Ord. 21-10, 3-15-2010)
14-2-6: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Transfer Of Permits Prohibited: Each moving permit, demolition permit
or permit for use of public property shall not be transferable from one
building or building site to another building or building site nor from one
person to another.
   B.   Moving Buildings:
      1.   A building being moved shall follow the route prescribed on the
permit by the city manager. The mover shall coordinate the route with the
utility companies.
      2.   A police escort shall be required for all buildings moved from one
location to another within the jurisdictional limits of the city, or moved out
of or into the jurisdictional limits of the city, utilizing public streets or
alleys or when, in the opinion of the chief of police, such escort is necessary
to protect the general welfare.
      3.   The chief of police shall determine the required number of personnel
and vehicles for escort service.
      4.   The fee established by the city manager shall be paid prior to
issuance of a permit to move a building or structure.
      5.   The permit applicant shall pay all costs for the trimming of trees
and replacement of natural obstructions or official signs and signals or other
public or private property required to be removed during the movement of a
vehicle and load.
   C.   Restriction On Moving Permit:
      1.   No building or structure shall be relocated or moved if the building
or structure is so constructed or in such condition as to be dangerous or
unsafe or if it is infested with pests, is unfit for human habitation or if it
is so deteriorated, dilapidated or defective that relocation would or could
create a safety or health hazard, or cause a blighted condition in the new
neighborhood.
      2.   All buildings or structures when relocated from outside of the city
into the city shall comply with all ordinances and regulations applicable to
new buildings or structures, including, but not limited to, building,
electrical, mechanical, plumbing, fire, health and zoning regulations.
      3.   All residential buildings or structures relocated within the city
shall comply with the uniform code for building conservation and chapter 1 of
this title.
      4.   All nonresidential buildings or structures relocated within the city
shall comply with all ordinances and regulations applicable to new buildings or
structures, including, but not limited to, building, electrical, mechanical,
plumbing, fire, health and zoning regulations.
      5.   All moved buildings or structures shall be completely enclosed
within thirty (30) days after said building or structure is placed on its new
site. All required changes, improvements and modifications shall be completed
and the building or structure made ready for occupancy or use within one
hundred twenty (120) days from the time the building permit is issued.
   D.   Demolition Of Buildings:
      1.   All pieces, parts, scraps, debris, rubbish and organic material from
a building, structure, or portion of a building in the process of being
demolished shall be cleaned up and removed from the premises at least once
weekly except for streets and public property, which shall be cleaned daily
unless otherwise specified on the permit. Final cleanup after the building or
structure is demolished shall include the thorough removal of all wood, debris
and organic materials, filling of excavations, cisterns and other depressions
with acceptable rubble or earthen fill, and spreading a tillable layer of
topsoil over the entire lot to a uniform natural grade consistent with the
established adjacent grades.
      2.   When directed by the city manager, water shall be used to minimize
dust when demolishing structures or under any dust producing conditions. As
ordered by the city manager, buildings shall be washed down frequently to keep
dust at a minimum.
      3.   When an interior wall is exposed because of demolition of an
adjoining structure, said wall shall be provided with a weather resistive
barrier as required in the Dubuque building code. No such wall shall be exposed
to the weather without the written approval of the city manager.
      4.   When a demolition project has been abandoned or is found to be
unsafe, the city manager may order the unsafe conditions corrected, the
building boarded up and the premises barricaded. Upon failure of the owner or
the owner's agent to comply with the order of the city manager within seven (7)
days, the city manager, after notice and opportunity for hearing, may cause
said building or structure to be demolished, the premises cleaned and suitable
drainage grades established. The cost of such demolition, cleaning and grading
shall be assessed to the property as provided by law. This section shall also
apply to any site from which a building or structure has been moved.
   E.   Disconnecting Utility Services: The power in all electric service lines
shall be shut off and all such lines cut or disconnected at or outside the
moving or demolition area before work is started on the site. Prior to the
disconnection of such lines, the permittee or property owner shall notify the
utility company and the city manager and shall obtain their approval in
compliance with applicable codes and requirements.
Exception: If it is necessary to maintain electrical service during the process
of moving or demolition, such service shall be temporarily relocated or
protected with substantial covering to the satisfaction of the electric service
company and the city manager, and said relocation shall be in conformance with
applicable codes and requirements. All gas, water, sewer and other service
lines shall be shut off and capped or otherwise controlled at or outside of the
moving or demolition area or curb line before moving or demolition work is
commenced. In each case, the service company and the city manager shall be
notified in advance and their approval obtained by the permittee or property
owner in compliance with applicable codes and requirements.
Exception: If it is necessary to maintain any water or other lines during the
moving or demolition process, such lines shall be temporarily relocated or
protected with substantial covering to the satisfaction of the utility
companies, city manager and in conformance with applicable codes and
requirements. (Ord. 31-16, 6-20-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
14-2-7: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Insurance Required:
      1.   Before a permit may be issued for the moving of a building, the
applicant therefor shall have filed a certificate of comprehensive public
liability insurance with coverage limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) general
aggregate.
      2.   In all other cases where a permit is required by this chapter, a
certificate of comprehensive public liability insurance shall be provided with
coverage limits of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
      3.   The permittee shall not commence work under this chapter until the
permittee has obtained all insurance required under this subsection.
Certificates of insurance shall be filed with the city manager for approval.
      4.   The permittee shall require subpermittees, if any, not protected
under the permittee's insurance policies to take out and maintain insurance of
the same nature and in the same amounts as required of the permittee for
comprehensive liability insurance. The permittee shall not allow any
subpermittee to commence work until all similar insurance required for the
subpermittee has been so obtained and approved. (Ord. 21-10, 3-15-2010)
14-2-8: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Compliance With Regulations Applicable To Moving Buildings: Every
person, firm or corporation obtaining a moving or demolition permit or a permit
for the use of streets or public property shall comply with and faithfully
observe and obey all applicable regulations and ordinances of the city, now
existing or hereafter enacted and all other applicable laws now existing or
hereafter enacted affecting or relating to the moving of houses, buildings, or
other structures upon or across public property.
   B.   Payment Of Damages Or Loss To City: Every person, firm or corporation
obtaining a moving or demolition permit or a permit for the use of streets or
public property shall pay all damages or loss to the city, that may occur from
any act or negligence of said person, firm or corporation, such person's,
firm's or corporation's agents or employees, anyone under such person's, firm's
or corporation's moving of houses, buildings or other structures upon or across
property.
   C.   Protection Of Work, Space, Materials Or Equipment: Every person, firm
or corporation obtaining a moving or demolition permit or a permit for the use
of streets or public property shall fully protect any and all work, space,
materials or equipment relating to the moving of buildings or structures upon
or across public property undertaken by principal or under such person's,
firm's or corporation's direction or supervision, or any subpermittee, as a
result of such person's, firm's or corporation's direction or supervision or by
any agent or employee, or by any subpermittee and shall pay any penalties that
may be imposed during the period of any permit now issued or to be issued
during the period of said bond. The certificate of insurance for moving
buildings shall be for a term of one year. (Ord. 21-10, 3-15-2010)
CHAPTER 3
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
14-3-1: Purpose And Scope
14-3-2: Definitions
14-3-3: Enforcement
14-3-4: Notices And Orders Of Building Official
14-3-5: Repair, Vacation And Demolition
14-3-6: Appeal
14-3-7: Procedure For Conduct Of Hearing Appeals
14-3-8: Enforcement Of Order Of Building Official Or Building Code And Appeals
Board
14-3-9: Performance Of Work Of Repair Or Demolition
14-3-10: Recovery Of Cost Of Repair Or Demolition
14-3-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a just, equitable and
practicable method to be cumulative with and in addition to any other remedy
provided by the building code, property maintenance code or otherwise available
at law, whereby buildings or structures which from any cause endanger the life,
limb, health, morals, property, safety or welfare of the general public or
their occupants may be required to be repaired, vacated or demolished.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all dangerous buildings,
as herein defined, which are now in existence or which may hereafter become
dangerous in the city.
   C.   All buildings or structures which are required to be repaired under the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of the building
code. (Ord. 31-16, 6-20-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
14-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall be construed as specified in either this chapter or as
specified in the building code or the property maintenance code. Where terms
are not defined, they shall have their ordinary accepted meanings within the
context in which they are used.
BUILDING CODE: The international building code promulgated by the International
Code Council, Inc., as adopted in section
14-1A-1 of this title.
DANGEROUS BUILDING: For the purpose of this chapter, any building or structure
which has any or all of the conditions or defects hereinafter described shall
be deemed to be a dangerous building; provided, that such conditions or defects
exist to the extent that the life, health, property or safety of the public or
its occupants are endangered:
   A.   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit
is not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
   B.   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to not
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
   C.   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof, due to
all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half (11/2) times the working
stress or stresses allowed in the building code for new buildings of similar
structure, purpose or location.
   D.   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of the building code for
new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location.
   E.   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
   F.   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half (1/2) of that specified in the
building code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location
without exceeding the working stresses permitted in the building code for such
buildings.
   G.   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or settled to
such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction.
   H.   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because of:
1) dilapidation, deterioration or decay; 2) faulty construction; 3) the
removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the
purpose of supporting such building; 4) the deterioration, decay or inadequacy
of its foundation; or 5) any other cause, is likely to partially or completely
collapse.
   I.   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
   J.   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third (1/3) of the base.
   K.   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
thirty three percent (33%) or more damage or deterioration of its supporting
member or members, or fifty percent (50%) damage or deterioration of its
nonsupporting members, enclosings or outside walls or coverings.
   L.   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become:
1) an attractive nuisance to children; 2) a harbor for vagrants or criminals;
or as to 3) enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
   M.   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the building regulations of this
city, as specified in the building code or property maintenance code, or of any
law or ordinance of this state or city relating to the condition, location or
structure of buildings.
   N.   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any nonsupporting
part, member or portion less than fifty percent (50%), or in any supporting
part, member or portion less than sixty six percent (66%) of the: 1) strength,
2) fire resisting qualities or characteristics, or 3) weather resisting
qualities or characteristics required by law in the case of a newly constructed
building of like area, height and occupancy in the same location.
   O.   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the health officer to be unsanitary,
unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to cause
sickness or disease.
   P.   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the fire marshal to be a
fire hazard.
   Q.   Whenever any building or structure is in such condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or in equity
jurisprudence.
   R.   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site after
the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever any
building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six (6) months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE: The city of Dubuque property maintenance code, as
adopted in chapter 1, article J of this title. (Ord. 31-16, 6-20-2016, eff. 7-
1-2016)
14-3-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Official: The building official is hereby authorized to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Inspection Authorized; Actions: The health officer, the fire marshal
and the building official are hereby authorized to make such inspections and to
take such actions as may be required to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Right Of Entry For Inspection; Notice To Owner: Whenever necessary to
make an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of this chapter, or
whenever the building official or the building official's authorized
representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any
building or upon any premises any condition or code violation which makes such
building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the building official or
the building official's authorized representative may enter such building or
premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty
imposed upon the building official by this chapter; provided, that if such
building or premises be occupied, the building official or the building
official's authorized representative shall first present proper credentials and
request entry; and if such building or premises be unoccupied, the building
official or the building official's authorized representative shall first make
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of the building or premises and request entry. If such entry is refused, the
building official or the building official's authorized representative shall
have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry. "Authorized
representative" shall include the officers named in this section and their
authorized inspection personnel.
   D.   Declaration Of Nuisance; Abatement: All buildings or portions thereof
which are determined after inspection by the building official to be dangerous
as defined in this chapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall
be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with
the procedure specified in this chapter.
   E.   Unlawful Activities: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure
or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of this chapter.
   F.   Buildings Subject To Inspection: All buildings or structures within the
scope of this chapter and all construction or work for which a permit is
required shall be subject to inspection by the building official in accordance
with and in the manner provided by this chapter and the building code. (2007
Code § 11-23)
14-3-4: NOTICES AND ORDERS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   Commencement Of Proceedings: Whenever the building official has
inspected or caused to be inspected any building and has found and determined
that such building is a dangerous building, the building official shall
commence proceedings to cause the repair, vacation or demolition of the
building.
   B.   Notice And Order, Contents: The building official shall issue a notice
and order directed to the record owner of the building. The notice and order
shall contain:
      1.   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located.
      2.   A statement that the building official has found the building to be
dangerous with a brief and concise description of the conditions found to
render the building dangerous under the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by the
building official:
         a.   If the building official has determined that the building or
structure must be repaired, the order shall require that all required permits
be secured therefor and the work physically commenced within such time (not to
exceed 60 days from the date of the order) and completed within such time as
the building official shall determine is reasonable under all of the
circumstances.
         b.   If the building official has determined that the building or
structure must be vacated, the order shall require that the building or
structures shall be vacated within a time certain from the date of the order as
determined by the building official to be reasonable.
         c.   If the building official has determined that the building or
structure must be demolished, the order shall require that the building be
vacated within such time as the building official shall determine is reasonable
(not to exceed 60 days from the date of the order); that all required permits
be secured therefor within sixty (60) days from the date of the order, and that
the demolition be completed within such time as the building official shall
determine is reasonable.
      4.   Statements advising that if any required repair or demolition work
(without vacation also being required) is not commenced within the time
specified, the building official: a) will order the building vacated and posted
to prevent further occupancy until the work is completed; and b) may proceed to
cause the work to be done and charge the costs thereof against the property or
its owner.
      5.   Statements advising: a) that any person having any record title or
legal interest in the building may appeal from the notice and order or any
action of the building official to the building code and advisory appeals
board, provided the appeal is made in writing as provided in this chapter and
filed with the building official within thirty (30) days from the date of
service of such notice and order; and b) that failure to appeal will constitute
a waiver of all right to an administrative hearing and determination of the
matter.
   C.   Serving And Posting Of Notice And Order: The notice and order, and any
amended or supplemental notice and order, shall be served upon the record owner
and posted on the property; and one copy thereof shall be served on each of the
following, if known to the building official or disclosed from official public
records: the holder of any mortgage or deed of trust or other lien or
encumbrance of record; the owner or holder of any lease of record; and the
holder of any other estate or legal interest of record in or to the building or
the land on which it is located. The failure of the building official to serve
any person required herein to be served shall not invalidate any proceedings
hereunder as to any other person duly served nor relieve any such person from
any duty or obligation imposed on such person by the provisions of this
section.
   D.   Manner Of Serving Notice: Service of the notice and order shall be made
upon all persons entitled thereto either personally or by mailing a copy of
such notice and order by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, to each such person at their last known address. If no address of
any such person is known to the building official, then a copy of the notice
and order shall be so mailed, addressed to such person, at the address of the
building involved in the proceedings and a summary of the notice and order
shall be published in a newspaper, as defined in section 618.3 of the Iowa
Code, published in and having general circulation in the city. The failure of
any such person to receive such notice shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings taken under this section. Service by certified mail in the manner
herein provided shall be effective on the date of mailing.
   E.   Certified Proof Of Service Of Notice And Order: Proof of service of the
notice and order shall be certified to at the time of service by a written
declaration under penalty of perjury executed by the persons effecting service,
declaring the time, date, and manner in which service was made. The
declaration, together with any receipt card returned in acknowledgment of
receipt by certified mail, or affidavit of publication, shall be affixed to the
copy of the notice and order retained by the building official. (2007 Code §
11-24)
14-3-5: REPAIR, VACATION AND DEMOLITION:
   A.   Standards: The following standards shall be followed by the building
official (and by the building code and advisory appeals board if an appeal is
taken) in ordering the repair, vacation or demolition of any dangerous building
or structure:
      1.   Any building declared a dangerous building under this chapter either
shall be repaired in accordance with the current building code or shall be
demolished at the option of the building owner.
      2.   If the building or structure is in such condition as to make it
immediately dangerous to the life, limb, property or safety of the public or
its occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated.
   B.   Form Of Notice: Every notice to vacate shall, in addition to personal
service or mail service, be posted at or upon each exit of the building and
shall be in substantially the following form:
      DANGEROUS BUILDING
      DO NOT ENTER
      It is unlawful to enter this building
      or to remove or deface this notice.
                               
      Building Official
   C.   Compliance With Posted Notice: Whenever such notice is posted, the
building official shall include a notification thereof in the notice and order
issued by the building official reciting the emergency and specifying the
conditions which necessitate the posting. No person shall remain in or enter
any building which has been so posted, except that entry may be made to repair,
demolish or remove such building under permit. No person shall remove or deface
any such notice after it is posted until the required repairs, demolition or
removal have been completed and a certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to
the provisions of the building code. (2007 Code § 11-25)
14-3-6: APPEAL:
   A.   Filing Of Written Appeal; Contents: Any person entitled to service of a
notice and order under this chapter may appeal from any notice and order or any
action of the building official under this chapter by filing at the office of
the building official a written appeal to the building code and advisory
appeals board containing:
      1.   A brief statement setting forth the legal interest of the appellant
in the building or the land involved in the notice and order.
      2.   A brief statement of the specific order or action protested,
together with any material facts claimed to support the contentions of the
appellant.
      3.   A brief statement of the relief sought and the reasons why it is
claimed the protested order or action should be reversed, modified or otherwise
set aside.
      4.   The signature of the appellant named as appellant and the
appellant's official mailing address.
   B.   Time Limit For Filing Appeal: The appeal shall be filed within ten (10)
days from the date of service of such order or action of the building official.
   C.   Presentation To Board: Upon receipt of any appeal filed pursuant to
this section, the building official shall present it at the next regular or
special meeting of the building code and advisory appeals board.
   D.   Fixing Date Of Hearing: As soon as practicable after receiving the
written appeal, the building code and advisory appeals board shall fix a date,
time and place for the hearing of the appeal by the board. Such date shall be
not less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days from the date the
appeal was filed with the building official. Written notice of the time and
place of the hearing shall be given at least than (10) days prior to the date
of the hearing to each appellant by the secretary of the board either by
causing a copy of such notice to be delivered to the appellant personally or by
mailing a copy of such notice by certified mail, postage prepaid, return
receipt requested, addressed to the appellant at the appellant's address shown
on the appeal.
   E.   Failure To File Appeal; Waiver Of Right To Hearing: Failure of any
person to file an appeal in accordance with this section shall constitute a
waiver of such person's right to an administrative hearing and adjudication of
the notice and order or any portion thereof.
   F.   Matters Under Consideration: Only those matters or issues specifically
raised by the appellant in the written appeal shall be considered in the
hearing of the appeal.
   G.   Enforcement Stayed During Appeal Process: Except for vacation orders,
enforcement of any notice and order of the building official issued under this
chapter shall be stayed during the pendency of an appeal therefrom which is
properly and timely filed. (2007 Code § 11-26)
14-3-7: PROCEDURE FOR CONDUCT OF HEARING APPEALS:
The conduct of hearing appeals filed with the building code and advisory
appeals board shall be governed by title 2, chapter 1 of this code. (2007 Code
§ 11-27)
14-3-8: ENFORCEMENT OF ORDER OF BUILDING OFFICIAL OR BUILDING CODE AND APPEALS
BOARD:
   A.   Compliance With Order Required: After any order of the building
official or a decision of the building code and advisory appeals board made
pursuant to this chapter shall have become final, no person to whom any such
order is directed shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any such order.
   B.   Failure To Comply; Actions: If, after any order of the building
official or a decision of the building code and advisory appeals board made
pursuant to this chapter has become final, the person to whom such order is
directed shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey such order, the building
official may: 1) cause such person to be prosecuted under subsection A of this
section; or 2) institute any appropriate action to abate such building as a
public nuisance.
   C.   Remedial Action; Notice: Whenever the required repair or demolition is
not commenced within thirty (30) days after any final notice and order issued
under this chapter becomes effective:
      1.   The building official shall cause the building described in such
notice and order to be vacated by posting at each entrance thereto a notice
reading:
      DANGEROUS BUILDING
      DO NOT ENTER
      It is unlawful to enter this building,
      or to remove or deface this notice.
                                
      Building Official
      2.   No person shall enter any building which has been posted as
specified in this subsection. No person shall remove or deface any such notice
so posted until the repairs, demolition or removal ordered by the building
official have been completed and a certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to
the provisions of the building code.
      3.   The building official may, in addition to any other remedy herein
provided, cause the building to be repaired to the extent necessary to correct
the conditions which render the building dangerous as set forth in the notice
and order; or, if the notice and order required demolition, to cause the
building to be demolished and the materials, rubble and debris therefrom,
removed and the lot cleaned. Any such repair or demolition work shall be
accomplished and the cost thereof paid and recovered in the manner hereinafter
provided in this chapter. Any surplus realized from the demolition thereof,
over and above the cost of demolition and of cleaning the lot, shall be paid
over to the person or persons lawfully entitled thereto.
   D.   Grant Extension Of Time: Upon receipt of an application from the person
required to conform to the order and an agreement by such person that said
person will comply with the order if allowed additional time, the building
official may grant an extension of time, not to exceed an additional one
hundred twenty (120) days, within which to complete said repair, rehabilitation
or demolition, if the building official determines that such an extension of
time will not create or perpetuate a situation imminently dangerous to life or
property. The building official's authority to extend time is limited to
physical repair, rehabilitation or demolition of the premises and will not in
any way affect the time to appeal the building official's notice and order.
   E.   Interference With Persons Performing Work: No person shall obstruct,
impede or interfere with any officer, employee, contractor or authorized
representative of this jurisdiction or with any person who owns or holds any
estate or interest in any building which has been ordered repaired, vacated or
demolished under the provisions of this chapter. (2007 Code § 11-28)
14-3-9: PERFORMANCE OF WORK OF REPAIR OR DEMOLITION:
   A.   Manner Of Accomplishing Work: When any work of repair or demolition is
to be done pursuant to section
14-3-8 of this chapter, the work shall be accomplished by city personnel or by
private contract under the direction of the building official. Plans and
specifications therefor may be prepared by the building official or the
building official may employ such architectural and engineering assistance on a
contract basis as deemed reasonably necessary.
   B.   Cost Assessed As Special Assessment: The cost of such work shall be
made a special assessment against the property involved. (2007 Code § 11-29)
14-3-10: RECOVERY OF COST OF REPAIR OR DEMOLITION:
The building official shall keep an itemized account of the expense incurred in
the repair or demolition of any building done pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter. Upon completion of the work of repair or demolition, the building
official shall prepare and certify the actual cost to the city clerk who, in
turn, shall certify such cost to the county treasurer, and it shall then
constitute a lien against said property and be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes on said property. (2007 Code § 11-30)
CHAPTER 4
LICENSING OF VACANT AND/OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
14-4-1: Definitions
14-4-2: Vacant And/Or Abandoned Building License
14-4-3: Registration
14-4-4: Fees
14-4-5: Terms Of Licenses
14-4-6: Inspections
14-4-7: Renewal Licenses
14-4-8: Renewal, Penalty For Failure To Renew License
14-4-9: Revocation, Reinstatement Measures
14-4-10: Relationship Of License To Other Codes
14-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall be construed as specified in either this chapter or as
specified in the Building Code or the Property Maintenance Code. Where terms
are not defined, they shall have their ordinary accepted meanings within the
context in which they are used. Unless otherwise expressly stated or unless the
context clearly indicates a different intent, the following terms shall, for
the purpose of this chapter, have the following meanings:
ABANDONED BUILDING: Any building or portion thereof which has stood with an
incomplete exterior shell for six (6) months or longer which meets one or more
of the following criteria:
   A.   Is unsecured;
   B.   Is unoccupied; or
   C.   Is in violation of the International Property Maintenance Code,
International Building Code, International Residential Code, or International
Fire Code adopted by the City of Dubuque.
BUILDING CODE: The Building Codes promulgated by the International Code Council
and their locally adopted amendments, as adopted in section 14-1 of this title.
CITY MANAGER: Includes the City Manager's designee.
DANGEROUS BUILDING: Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described; provided, that such conditions or
defects exist to the extent that the life, health, property or safety of the
public or the occupants of the building are endangered:
   A.   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit
is not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
   B.   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to not
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
   C.   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof, due to
all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half (11/2) times the working
stress or stresses allowed in the Building Code for new buildings of similar
structure, purpose or location.
   D.   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of the Building Code for
new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location.
   E.   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is found by the
code official to be likely to fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to
collapse and thereby injure persons or damage property.
   F.   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half (1/2) of that specified in the
Building Code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location
without exceeding the working stresses permitted in the Building Code for such
buildings.
   G.   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or settled to
such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction.
   H.   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, is found by
the code official to be likely to partially or completely collapse because of:
      1.   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
      2.    Faulty construction;
      3.    The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
      4.    The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
      5.    Any other cause.
   I.   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
   J.   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third (1/3) of the base.
   K.   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
thirty three-percent (33%) or more damage or deterioration of its supporting
member or members, or fifty percent (50%) damage or deterioration of its
nonsupporting members, enclosings or outside walls or coverings.
   L.   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become:
1) an attractive nuisance to children; 2) a harbor for vagrants or criminals;
or as to 3) enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
   M.   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the building regulations of this
City, as specified in the Building Code or Property Maintenance Code, or of any
law or ordinance of this State or City relating to the condition, location or
structure of buildings.
   N.   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any nonsupporting
part, member or portion less than fifty percent (50%), or in any supporting
part, member or portion less than sixty six percent (66%) of the: 1) strength;
2) fire resisting qualities or characteristics; or 3) weather resisting
qualities or characteristics required by law in the case of a newly constructed
building of like area, height and occupancy in the same location.
   O.   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Health Officer to be unsanitary,
unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to cause
sickness or disease.
   P.   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Fire Marshal to be a
fire hazard.
   Q.   Whenever any building or structure is in such condition as to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or in equity
jurisprudence.
   R.   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site after
the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever any
building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six (6) months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
FIRE CODE: International Fire Code, as adopted by chapter 1, article E of this
title.
NUISANCE: Each of the following shall be defined as a "nuisance":
   A.   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence.
   B.   Any attractive nuisance which may prove detrimental to persons whether
in a building, on the premises of a building, or upon an unoccupied lot.
   C.   Whatever is dangerous to human life or is a menace to the public
health, welfare or safety as determined by the City Manager.
   D.   A building that is structurally unsafe, unsanitary or not provided with
adequate safe egress, or that constitutes a fire hazard, or otherwise
constitutes a hazard by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation or
obsolescence or abandonment.
   E.   Uncleanliness to the risk of unhealthiness, as determined by the City
Manager.
   F.   Whatever renders air, food or drink unwholesome or detrimental to the
health of human beings, as determined by the City Manager.
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE: The City of Dubuque Property Maintenance Code, as
adopted in chapter 1, article J of this title.
RESIDENTIAL CODE: International Residential Code, as adopted by chapter 1,
article B of this title.
UNOCCUPIED: Not engaged in any principal permitted uses or approved conditional
uses designated for the zoning district in which a building is located.
VACANT BUILDING: Any building or portion thereof which has been unoccupied for
a continuous period of time over twelve (12) months and which meets one or more
of the following criteria:
   A.   Unsecured;
   B.   Secured by means other than those used in the design of the building;
   C.   Declared a "dangerous building" as defined in this section;
   D.   Unfit for occupancy as determined by the City Manager;
   E.   Noncompliant with the International Property Maintenance Code;
   F.   Has Housing, Building, Fire, Health or Zoning Code violations;
   G.   Open to vagrants, vandals, children or the unwary; or
   H.   Not consuming or using one or more utilities provided by any one or
more of the public utilities.
      1.    For purposes of this chapter, public utilities are defined as
water, natural gas, and electricity.
      2.    The minimum fee billed for properties having a water meter, stop
box, or service line but not actually using water does not constitute water
consumption for purposes of this chapter.
         a.   Minimum water usage, not conducive to the primary or conditional
uses of the building or portion thereof, does not constitute water consumption
for purposes of this chapter.
      3.   Stormwater does not constitute a public utility for purposes of this
chapter. (Ord. 37-18, 9-17-2018; amd. Ord. 47-21, 12-20-2021)
14-4-2: VACANT AND/OR ABANDONED BUILDING LICENSE:
No person or business shall maintain a vacant or abandoned building as defined
by this chapter, in the City unless such person or business holds a current
unrevoked abandoned or vacant building license, issued by the City Manager, in
the name of the owner/operator for the specific named building. (Ord. 44-07, 8-
6-2007)
14-4-3: REGISTRATION:
   A.   Registration Required: The owner shall register a vacant or abandoned
building with the City Manager not later than thirty (30) calendar days after
any building in the City becomes abandoned or vacant as defined in this
chapter. Failure to register an abandoned or vacant building or providing false
information to the City Manager shall be a violation of this chapter.
   B.   Information: The registration shall include the following information:
      1.   A description of the premises;
      2.   The names and addresses of the owner or owners;
      3.   The names and addresses of all known lien holders and all other
parties with an ownership interest in the building;
      4.   The name of the agent designated to act on the behalf of an out of
town property owner to accept legal processes and notices, and to authorize
repairs as required;
      5.   The period of time the building is expected to remain vacant; and
      6.    A plan and proposed timeline for restoration to a code compliant
and occupied status or for the demolition/sale of the building(s). (Ord. 44-07,
8-6-2007; amd. Ord. 47-21, 12-20-2021)
14-4-4: FEES:
The owner of a vacant or abandoned building shall pay an annual fee reasonably
related to the administrative cost of registering and processing the
registration form and the costs of the City in monitoring and inspecting the
property as established by the City Manager and shall be paid in full prior to
the issuance of any permits or acceptance of the registration form for the
subject property. (Ord. 44-07, 8-6-2007)
14-4-5: TERMS OF LICENSES:
   A.   License Term: Every license issued under this chapter shall expire
twelve (12) months after issuance.
   B.   Application For Renewal: Upon application, a license may be renewed and
remain effective for successive periods of one year unless sooner revoked at
any time by the City Manager for noncompliance with any applicable provisions
of this Code.
   C.   Transfer: Licenses may be transferred from one person or business to
another, provided notice of the transfer is given in writing within five (5)
working days of the transfer, to the City Manager.
   D.   Nontransferable From Building To Building: Licenses shall not be
transferable from one building to another.
   E.   Notify City Of Transfer Or Disposal: Every person or business holding a
license shall give notice in writing to the City Manager within five (5)
working days after having transferred or otherwise disposed of the legal
control of the licensed building. Such notice shall include the name and
address of the persons or businesses succeeding to the ownership or control of
such licensed building. (Ord. 44-07, 8-6-2007; amd. Ord. 47-21, 12-20-2021)
14-4-6: INSPECTIONS:
The owner shall allow inspection of the building by City representatives upon
request and shall allow quarterly inspections of the exterior and annual
inspection of the interior of the premises for the purpose of enforcing and
assuring compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the Property
Maintenance, Building, Fire Codes, or other applicable codes and ordinances.
(Ord. 44-07, 8-6-2007; amd. Ord. 47-21, 12-20-2021)
14-4-7: RENEWAL LICENSES:
The City Manager is hereby authorized to issue and renew vacant or abandoned
building licenses for specific buildings, in the names of the applicant owners,
operators or managers, provided the following criteria are met:
   A.   Building In Compliance With Regulations: The building for which the
license is sought is warranted by the owner or operator to substantially comply
with applicable provisions of this Code.
   B.   Application By Owner: The owner or operator legally authorized and
responsible for maintenance of the building for which a vacant or abandoned
building license is sought shall first make application therefor on an
application provided by the City Manager.
   C.   Payment Of Fees: All fees required by this Code pursuant to the
issuance of a vacant or abandoned building license are paid in full to the
City.
   D.   Agent Of Owner/Operator: The applicant shall designate a local
responsible agent to represent the owner/operator whenever the said applicant
is not available for maintenance of the building for which a license is sought.
Said agent shall have full authority and responsibility, the same as the owner/
operator, for maintaining the building. (Ord. 44-07, 8-6-2007; amd. Ord. 47-21,
12-20-2021)
14-4-8: RENEWAL, PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO RENEW LICENSE:
An application for renewal of a vacant or abandoned building license may be
made within sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of an existing operating
license. Each day that the owner fails to renew an expired license as required
by this chapter shall constitute a separate violation for which a Municipal
infraction citation may be issued. (Ord. 44-07, 8-6-2007; amd. Ord. 47-21, 12-
20-2021)
14-4-9: REVOCATION, REINSTATEMENT MEASURES:
   A.   Notice To Licensee: The Code Official shall cause to be issued to the
licensee a notice that the license is revoked, setting forth the reason(s)
therefor. The notice shall be sent by certified United States mail to the
licensee at the address on file with the Inspection and Construction Services
Division.
   B.   Appeal: The licensee may appeal the decision of the City Manager to the
Housing Appeals and Mediation Board. An appeal must be filed, in writing,
within twenty (20) days from the date of the notice of suspension or
revocation. (Ord. 44-07, 8-6-2007; amd. Ord. 47-21, 12-20-2021)
14-4-10: RELATIONSHIP OF LICENSE TO OTHER CODES:
The issuance of any license for any vacant or abandoned building shall not in
any way signify or imply that the building conforms with the Iowa State
Building Code or the housing, building, zoning, fire ordinances or other codes
and ordinances adopted by the City. The issuance of a license shall not relieve
the owner or operator of the responsibility for compliance with said applicable
Property Maintenance, Building, Zoning, Fire or other applicable codes and
ordinances. (Ord. 20-12, 3-5-2012; amd. Ord. 47-21, 12-20-2021)
CHAPTER 5
HISTORIC BUILDINGS
(Rep. by Ord. 42-24, 7-1-2024)
CHAPTER 6
HISTORIC PRESERVATION 1
(Rep. by Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 16, chapter 15 of this code.
CHAPTER 7
CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS AND TRANSFERS TO MULTIPLE HOUSING COOPERATIVE
SECTION:
14-7-1: Condominium Conversions
14-7-1-1:Building Code Requirements
14-7-1-2:Filing Declaration With City Clerk
14-7-1-3:Inspection; Certificate Of Compliance
14-7-2: Transfers To Multiple Housing Cooperative
14-7-2-1:Building Code Requirements
14-7-2-2:Filing Plans With City Clerk
14-7-2-3:Inspection; Certificate Of Compliance
14-7-1: CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS:
14-7-1-1: BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall file a declaration in the office of the county recorder to
convert an existing structure to a horizontal property regime unless a
certificate of compliance has been issued by the city manager that the
converted structure meets the building code requirements of this code in effect
on the date of conversion. (Ord. 22-10, 4-5-2010)
14-7-1-2: FILING DECLARATION WITH CITY CLERK:
At least sixty (60) days before being recorded in the office of the county
recorder, the declarant shall file a copy of the declaration and as built plans
of the structure with the city clerk to enable the city to establish whether or
not the converted structure meets the building code requirements. The declarant
shall also at the time of filing the declaration and plans pay a condominium
conversion fee established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 22-10, 4-5-
2010)
14-7-1-3: INSPECTION; CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Inspection: Upon receipt of the plans, the city manager or the city
manager's designee shall conduct an inspection of the structure to determine
whether or not the structure meets the building code requirements.
   B.   Issuance Of Certificate: If the structure meets the building code
requirements, the city manager shall issue a certificate of compliance to the
declarant.
   C.   Notice Of Noncompliance: If the structure does not meet the building
requirements, the city manager shall notify the declarant in writing as to the
building code requirements not met by the structure. (Ord. 22-10, 4-5-2010)
14-7-2: TRANSFERS TO MULTIPLE HOUSING COOPERATIVE:
14-7-2-1: BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS:
An existing structure shall not be transferred to a multiple housing
cooperative unless the structure meets all building code requirements in effect
on the date of transfer. No person shall file a deed in the office of the
county recorder transferring an interest in real property occupied by an
existing structure to a cooperative organized under Iowa Code chapter 499A
unless a certificate of compliance has been issued by the city manager that the
structure meets the building code requirements of this code in effect on the
date of transfer. (Ord. 22-10, 4-5-2010)
14-7-2-2: FILING PLANS WITH CITY CLERK:
At least sixty (60) days before filing the deed in the office of the county
recorder, the owner shall file as built plans of the structure to be
transferred with the city clerk to enable the city to establish whether or not
the structure meets the building code requirements. The owner shall also at the
time of filing the plans pay a fee established by the city manager. (Ord. 22-
10, 4-5-2010)
14-7-2-3: INSPECTION; CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Inspection: Upon receipt of the plans, the city manager or the city
manager's designee shall conduct an inspection of the structure to determine
whether or not the structure meets the building code requirements.
   B.   Issuance Of Certificate: If the structure meets the building code
requirements, the city manager shall issue a certificate of compliance to the
owner.
   C.   Notice Of Noncompliance: If the structure does not meet the building
requirements, the city manager shall notify the owner in writing as to the
building code requirements not met by the structure. (Ord. 22-10, 4-5-2010)
CHAPTER 8
EXTERIOR STORAGE CONTAINERS AND STORAGE TRAILERS
SECTION:
14-8-1: Definitions
14-8-2: Storage Containers Or Storage Trailers Permitted; Exemptions
14-8-3: Required Conditions
14-8-4: Permit Required
14-8-5: Application For Permit; Site Plan
14-8-6: Consideration Of Application
14-8-7: Fees
14-8-8: Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit
14-8-9: Variance
14-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
STORAGE CONTAINER: Any enclosed receptacle, without wheels, twenty feet (20')
or more in length designed, built or intended to be used for the shipment,
transportation or storage of goods and not being used primarily for the
shipment or transportation of goods, but not including a construction trailer.
Storage container does not include a truck trailer or semitruck trailer while
it is actively being used for the transportation of materials, inventory or
equipment.
STORAGE TRAILER: Any enclosed receptacle, with wheels, twenty feet (20') or
more in length designed, built or intended to be used for the shipment,
transportation or storage of goods but not including a construction trailer.
Storage trailer does not include a truck trailer or semitruck trailer while it
is being used for the transportation of materials, inventory or equipment.
(Ord. 26-06, 3-6-2006, eff. 7-1-2006)
14-8-2: STORAGE CONTAINERS OR STORAGE TRAILERS PERMITTED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: This chapter shall apply to use of any
storage container or storage trailer for the exterior storage of materials,
equipment or inventory.
   B.   Exceptions: Notwithstanding the foregoing, this chapter shall not apply
to the following:
      1.   Storage containers or storage trailers attached to a loading dock,
construction trailers or containers or licensed and federally inspected
vehicles such as a truck trailer or semitruck trailer while it is not being
used for the storage of goods;
      2.   A business that rents storage trailers or storage containers to
others. (Ord. 26-06, 3-6-2006, eff. 7-1-2006)
14-8-3: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
Storage containers or storage trailers permitted by this chapter shall be
subject to the following conditions:
   A.   Storage containers or storage trailers shall not be stacked;
   B.   Storage containers or storage trailers not connected to a loading dock
shall be located not less than twenty feet (20') from any building and shall
not block any fire exit doors of the building;
   C.   Storage containers or storage trailers shall at all times be kept good
in appearance and shall not be in a state of neglect, including, but not
limited to, substantial peeling paint, rust holes or missing or broken parts;
   D.   Storage containers or storage trailers shall not have any attachments
such as utilities, roof, siding, stairs or other conditions such that the
container or trailer constitutes a permanent structure unless such container or
trailer complies with all applicable electrical and building code requirements;
   E.   Storage containers or storage trailers shall have no goods or materials
underneath the container or trailer;
   F.   Storage containers or trailers shall not be used for the storage of
hazardous waste or materials unless the container or trailer complies with all
applicable federal, state or local regulations; and
   G.   Storage containers or storage trailers shall at all times be kept
secure. (Ord. 26-06, 3-6-2006, eff. 7-1-2006)
14-8-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall use or maintain or permit to be used or maintained an exterior
storage container or storage trailer without first obtaining an annual permit
therefor as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 26-06, 3-6-2006, eff. 7-1-2006)
14-8-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; SITE PLAN:
   A.   Filing Of Application: An application for an exterior storage container
or storage trailer permit shall be filed with the city manager on a form
provided by the city manager.
   B.   Information Required: The application shall include the following
information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   A site plan which shall be a dimension drawing showing the
following:
         a.   North arrow;
         b.   Property lines;
         c.   Location of all structure(s) on the subject property, including
dumpsters, and dimensions;
         d.   Location of emergency lanes, location of ingress and egress to
the property, location of parking areas;
         e.   Location of each proposed storage container or storage trailer
and dimensions from building(s);
         f.   Contents of each storage container or storage trailer.
   C.   Falsification Of Information: Falsification of information on an
application shall be grounds for denial or revocation of a permit. (Ord. 26-06,
3-6-2006, eff. 7-1-2006)
14-8-6: CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION:
The city manager shall, upon consideration of the application and the
information required herein, approve or reject the application. (Ord. 26-06, 3-
6-2006, eff. 7-1-2006)
14-8-7: FEES:
At the time of filing the application, the applicant shall pay to the city a
nonrefundable permit fee established by the city manager. (Ord. 26-06, 3-6-
2006, eff. 7-1-2006)
14-8-8: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Violation Of Regulations: A permit may be revoked or suspended by the
city manager for a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any
other ordinances of the city or the laws of the United States or the state of
Iowa.
   B.   Notice Of Action To Permittee; Right To Appeal: The permittee shall be
given not less than ten (10) days' written notice of the proposed action to be
taken prior to suspension or revocation. The permittee may file with the city
clerk a written notice of appeal to the city council from the suspension or
revocation. (Ord. 26-06, 3-6-2006, eff. 7-1-2006)
14-8-9: VARIANCE:
The city manager may grant a variance in a specific case and from a specific
provision of this chapter based on the city manager's determination of the
following:
   A.   That there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in
carrying out the strict letter of a requirement of this chapter;
   B.   That the effect of the application of the provisions of this chapter
would be arbitrary in the specific case;
   C.   That an extension of time would not constitute an appropriate remedy
for such practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships; and
   D.   That such variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this chapter in securing the public health, safety and general welfare and does
not constitute an imminent danger to the public. (Ord. 26-06, 3-6-2006, eff. 7-
1-2006)
CHAPTER 9
SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
14-9-1: Definition
14-9-2: Permit Required; Fees
14-9-3: Construction
14-9-4: Fencing Requirements
14-9-5: Location
14-9-6: State Code Adopted
14-9-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, a “swimming pool” is defined as any constructed or
prefabricated pool, hot tub, spa, or other container used for swimming,
bathing, or wading, which is capable of containing water over twenty-four
inches (24") in depth. (Ord. 43-16, 9-6-2016; amd. Ord. 29-23, 5-15-2023)
14-9-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: All swimming pools, whether public or private, shall
require a building permit. (2007 Code § 11-42)
   B.   Permit Fees: Permit fees for swimming pools shall be established by the
city manager. (2007 Code § 11-43)
14-9-3: CONSTRUCTION:
Plans and specifications concerning a swimming pool shall be submitted to the
building department and such pool shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with generally accepted standards and practices, as outlined in the
latest edition of "Recommended Practice For Design, Equipment And Operation Of
Swimming Pools And Other Public Bathing Places", of the American Public Health
Association. (2007 Code § 11-44)
14-9-4: FENCING REQUIREMENTS:
Swimming pool fencing shall be in compliance with section 303 of the
international property maintenance code. (Ord. 43-16, 9-6-2016)
14-9-5: LOCATION:
The location of swimming pools shall be governed by the zoning ordinance of the
city. (2007 Code § 11-46)
14-9-6: STATE CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference Iowa Code chapter 135I,
"swimming pools and spas", as amended, and Iowa administrative code chapter
641-15, "swimming pools and spas", as amended, which apply to swimming pools,
spas, wading pools, water slides, wave pools and bathhouses connected to
swimming pools, owned or operated by local or state government, or commercial
interests or private entities including, but not limited to, public or private
school corporations, hotels, motels, camps, apartments, condominiums, and
health and country clubs, providing for minimum safety and water quality
requirements relating to the construction, operation, registration and
inspection of swimming pools and spas; qualifications for swimming pool and spa
operators and lifeguards; and procedures for health departments to provide for
the inspection and enforcement of such rules. (2007 Code § 23-36)
CHAPTER 10
SIGNS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 16, chapter 20 of this code.
CHAPTER 11
FLOOD AREAS
SECTION:
14-11-1: Designation; Posting
14-11-2: Entry Restricted
14-11-3: Entry, Permits
14-11-4: Vacation Of Dwellings
14-11-1: DESIGNATION; POSTING:
Whenever the city manager shall determine that any area of the city has been or
is in imminent danger of being inundated by floodwaters, the city manager may
designate the same a "flood area" and erect suitable barricades and signs
giving notice thereof. (2007 Code § 20-16)
14-11-2: ENTRY RESTRICTED:
After signs have been erected giving notice of the designation of an area as a
flood area, no person or vehicles shall enter such area without first having
been authorized to do so by the city manager. (2007 Code § 20-17)
14-11-3: ENTRY, PERMITS:
The city manager is hereby empowered to issue special permits to any persons or
vehicles whose presence in areas designated as flood areas pursuant to this
chapter is demanded by the public interest, which permits shall not be
transferable and shall be displayed in a prominent manner while in such area.
(2007 Code § 20-18)
14-11-4: VACATION OF DWELLINGS:
Whenever the imminent danger of floodwaters shall make any habitation or
dwelling dangerous to health and unsuitable for human habitation, the occupants
thereof, upon demand of the city manager or the city manager's properly
authorized representative, shall vacate such dwelling and remove therefrom and
shall not return thereto until the city manager shall have determined such
danger no longer exists. (2007 Code § 20-19)
CHAPTER 12
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
SECTION:
14-12-1: Definitions
14-12-2: Applicability; Short Title
14-12-3: Responsibility For Administration
14-12-4: Severability Clause
14-12-5: Ultimate Responsibility
14-12-6: Erosion And Sediment Control (ESC) Permit
14-12-7: Duty To Comply With State NPDES General Permit No. 2
14-12-8: Permit Monitoring Procedures
14-12-9: Violation
14-12-10: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
14-12-11: Enforcement Measures
14-12-12: Cost Of Abatement Of Violation
14-12-13: Injunctive Relief
14-12-14: Violations Deemed Public Nuisance
14-12-15: Remedies Not Exclusive
14-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
APPLICANT: A person, firm, sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, state
agency or political subdivision required by law or administrative rule to apply
to the IDNR for a state NPDES general permit no. 2 and a city ESC permit.
BARE SOIL: Soil exposed and unprotected from soil erosion.
BUILDING PERMIT: A document issued under the authority of the city manager
which authorizes the construction or modification of a structure on a property.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager or the city manager's designee.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act, 33 USC section 1251
et seq., and any amendments thereto.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES construction permits that
result in disturbance of one acre or more. Such activities include, but are not
limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, filling, and
demolition.
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL: The control of soil, both mineral and organic, to
minimize the removal of soil from the land surface and to prevent its transport
from a disturbed area by means of wind, water, ice, gravity, or any combination
of those forces.
IDNR: The Iowa department of natural resources.
LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY: Activities that include, but are not limited to,
clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, filling, and demolition that result
in bare soil.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): The streets, gutters, conduits,
natural or artificial drains, channels and watercourses, and other facilities
that are owned, operated, maintained or controlled by the city and used for the
purpose of collecting, storing, transporting, or disposing of stormwater.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by the environmental protection agency or by a state
under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC section 1342(b) that authorizes
the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit
is applicable on an individual, group, or general areawide basis.
PERMITTEE: A person who has been issued a city ESC permit.
PERSON: Any individual, applicant, association, organization, partnership,
firm, corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the
owner or as the owner's agent.
SEDIMENT: Mobile soil particles detached through the process of soil erosion.
SITE PLAN: The development plan which shows the existing and proposed
conditions of a site, including topography, vegetation, drainage, floodplains,
wetlands and waterways, landscaping, open spaces, impervious area, utility
services, structures and buildings.
SOIL EROSION: The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water,
wind, ice or gravity.
STATE NPDES GENERAL PERMIT NO. 2: The general permit established by the Iowa
department of natural resources for "stormwater associated with industrial
activity for construction activities" (land disturbing 1 acre or more).
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP): A document required for a state
NPDES general permit no. 2 that describes the best management practices and
activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify sources of
pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or reduce
pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance systems, and/or
receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable. (Ord. 6-07, 2-20-2007)
14-12-2: APPLICABILITY; SHORT TITLE:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of this chapter apply to all land
disturbing.
   B.   Short Title: This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DUBUQUE. (Ord. 6-07, 2-
20-2007)
14-12-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The city manager shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 6-07, 2-20-2007)
14-12-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
chapter. (Ord. 6-07, 2-20-2007)
14-12-5: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no erosion or
sedimentation from a land disturbing activity, or contamination, pollution, or
other unauthorized discharge of pollutants. This chapter does not relieve any
person of the responsibility to obtain a state NPDES general permit no. 2 and
adhering to the requirements therein, nor does it relieve any person from the
responsibility of following any other applicable local, state, or federal
regulation. (Ord. 6-07, 2-20-2007)
14-12-6: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL (ESC) PERMIT:
   A.   City ESC Permit Required: All persons required by law or administrative
rule to obtain the state NPDES general permit no. 2 from the IDNR and all
persons with an active state NPDES general permit no. 2 shall obtain a city ESC
permit in addition to and not in lieu of a state NPDES general permit no. 2.
   B.   Application Procedure For Obtaining And Maintaining City ESC Permit:
      1.   Applications for city ESC permits shall be made on forms approved by
the city manager and available at the office of the city engineer.
      2.   An applicant for a city ESC permit shall pay a permit fee as
established by the city manager.
      3.   An applicant in possession of a state NPDES general permit no. 2
issued by the IDNR shall submit to the city manager with the application copies
of the following:
         a.   The applicant's plans, specifications and supporting materials
prepared in support of the application for a state NPDES general permit no. 2;
         b.   The applicant's authorizations issued pursuant to the applicant's
state NPDES general permit no. 2; and
         c.   The applicant's stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP)
prepared in accordance with this chapter.
      4.   Every SWPPP submitted to the city manager in support of an
application for a city ESC permit shall:
         a.   Comply with all current minimum mandatory requirements for SWPPPs
promulgated by the IDNR in connection with issuance of a state NPDES general
permit no. 2;
         b.   If the applicant is required by law to file a joint application
form, "Protecting Iowa Waters, Iowa Department Of Natural Resources And U.S.
Army Corps Of Engineers", comply with all mandatory minimum requirements
pertaining to such applications;
         c.   Comply with all other applicable state or federal permit
requirements in existence at the time of the application; and
         d.   Be prepared by a licensed professional engineer, a licensed
landscape architect, a licensed professional in erosion and sediment control,
or a representative of the local soil and water conservation district,
credentialed in a manner acceptable to the city manager.
   C.   Indemnify City: The application form signed by the applicant for a city
ESC permit shall include the following statement:
         The undersigned Applicant hereby agrees to defend, indemnify and hold
the City, its officers, and employees harmless from any and all claims, damages
or suits of any kind arising directly or indirectly out of any act of
commission or omission by the Applicant, or any employee, agent, assign,
contractor or subcontractor of the Applicant, in connection with the
Applicant's State NPDES General Permit No. 2 and/or City ESC Permit.
   D.   Permit Issuance Or Denial: Upon receipt of an application for a city
ESC permit, if the city manager finds that the application complies with this
chapter, the city manager shall issue a city ESC permit in accordance with this
chapter. If the city manager finds that the application fails to comply with
this chapter, the city manager shall provide the applicant a schedule
identifying wherein the application does not comply with this chapter.
   E.   Condition Precedent To Issuance Of Building Permit: Issuance by the
city manager of a city ESC permit shall be a condition precedent to the
issuance of a city building permit for the land disturbing activity described
in the application. For any application submitted to the city manager after
September 1, 2007, no city ESC permit shall be issued until the site plan has
been approved by the city manager.
   F.   Information Required: For so long as any land disturbing activity is
subject to a state NPDES general permit no. 2, the city ESC permit shall be
required. At all times while the land disturbing activity is being conducted,
the permittee shall provide the city with the following current information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the person on site
designated by the property owner where the land disturbing activity is being
conducted who is knowledgeable and experienced in erosion and sediment control
and who will oversee compliance with a state NPDES general permit no. 2 and the
city ESC permit; and
      2.   The name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of the contractor
(s) and/or subcontractor(s) who will implement each erosion and sediment
control measure identified in the SWPPP.
   G.   Transfer Of ESC Permit Responsibilities: Upon the sale of property for
which a city ESC permit has been issued, the permittee may transfer the city
ESC permit to the new property owner if the permittee provides the city manager
with written confirmation that the permittee has transferred a state NPDES
general permit no. 2 in accordance with the guidelines established by a state
NPDES general permit no. 2 and the permittee pays the permit transfer fee
established by the city manager. The permittee shall notify the city manager of
any application to the IDNR for the release of any property from a state NPDES
general permit no. 2. Absent such written confirmation of transfer, the
permittee shall remain responsible for city ESC permit compliance on the
property sold.
   H.   Discontinuance Of Permit: A permittee who discontinues a state NPDES
general permit no. 2 shall immediately submit to the city manager copies of the
materials and documents submitted to the IDNR in support of the
discontinuation. (Ord. 6-07, 2-20-2007)
14-12-7: DUTY TO COMPLY WITH STATE NPDES GENERAL PERMIT NO. 2:
   A.   Noncompliance with any provision of a state NPDES general permit no. 2
by any person required by law or administrative rule to comply with the terms
of a state NPDES general permit no. 2 constitutes a violation of this chapter.
   B.   Each failure to comply with a state NPDES general permit no. 2 shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter. (Ord. 6-07, 2-20-2007)
14-12-8: PERMIT MONITORING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Monitor Site Conditions; Inspection: Upon issuance of a state NPDES
general permit no. 2 or a city ESC permit, a permittee shall monitor site
conditions and perform inspections in a manner consistent with state NPDES
general permit no. 2 requirements and report to the city manager any change of
circumstances or site conditions which the permittee knows or should know pose
a risk of stormwater discharge in a manner inconsistent with the permittee's
SWPPP, state NPDES general permit no. 2 and/or city ESC permit.
   B.   Right Of Entry: The city manager may enter upon any property where land
disturbing activity is being conducted to determine compliance with this
chapter.
   C.   Notify City Of Completion Of Requirements: Prior to initiating any land
disturbing activity that requires a city ESC permit, the permittee shall notify
the city manager when all measures required by the applicant's SWPPP have been
accomplished on site.
   D.   Periodic Inspections: Upon issuance of a city ESC permit, the city
manager shall conduct an inspection at least once each calendar quarter to
monitor and report on compliance with a state NPDES general permit no. 2 and
the city ESC permit.
   E.   Conditions Of Noncompliance; Corrective Action: At any time the city
manager receives any information that the site conditions pose a risk of
stormwater discharge in a manner inconsistent with the permittee's SWPPP, state
NPDES general permit no. 2 and/or city ESC permit, the city manager shall
provide the permittee with a schedule identifying the conditions of
noncompliance. The permittee shall immediately commence corrective action and
shall complete such corrective action within twenty four (24) hours after
receipt of the schedule. For good cause shown, the city manager may extend the
deadline for completing such corrective action. (Ord. 6-07, 2-20-2007)
14-12-9: VIOLATION:
   A.   Municipal Infraction: A violation by any person of any provision of
this chapter, including the commencing, constructing, causing, or permitting
the commencement of any land disturbing activity without a city ESC permit as
required by this chapter, constitutes a municipal infraction.
   B.   Abatement Required: The city manager may order compliance with this
chapter by written notice of violation to a person violating this chapter
setting forth the time within which remediation or restoration must be
completed and that if the person fails to complete such remediation or
restoration within such time, the city shall cause such remediation or
restoration work to be done and the person shall be liable for such costs.
   C.   Stop Work Order: The city manager may issue an order to stop all
construction activities on any property where land disturbing activity is being
conducted until conditions of noncompliance with this chapter are corrected.
Construction activity, other than that which is required to correct a condition
of noncompliance, prior to the correction of the conditions of noncompliance,
shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 6-07, 2-20-2007)
14-12-10: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
The determination by the city manager of a violation of this chapter may be
appealed by an aggrieved party to the city council, provided written notice of
appeal is received by the city manager within fifteen (15) days from the date
of the notice of violation. Upon hearing, the city council may rescind, modify
or affirm the notice of violation. (Ord. 6-07, 2-20-2007)
14-12-11: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES:
The city manager may enter upon any property where land disturbing activity is
being conducted and take any and all action necessary to abate any violation of
this chapter and/or remediate or restore the property to its condition prior to
the land disturbing activity. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to refuse to allow the city manager to enter upon property for such
purposes. (Ord. 6-07, 2-20-2007)
14-12-12: COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION:
Within thirty (30) days after abatement of a violation of this chapter, the
owner of the property shall be notified in writing by the city manager of the
cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner may file
a written protest with the city manager objecting to the amount of the cost of
abatement within fifteen (15) days thereafter. If the cost of abatement is not
paid to the city within sixty (60) days after the date of the notice, the cost
of abatement shall be certified by the city clerk to the Dubuque County
treasurer in the manner of a special assessment against the property and shall
constitute a lien on the property. (Ord. 6-07, 2-20-2007)
14-12-13: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
The city manager may seek equitable relief restraining any person from any
activity in violation of this chapter including compelling the performance of
abatement or remediation of such violation. (Ord. 6-07, 2-20-2007)
14-12-14: VIOLATIONS DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter constitutes a threat to public health, safety, and
welfare, and is hereby declared and deemed a public nuisance. (Ord. 6-07, 2-20-
2007)
14-12-15: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided in this chapter shall not be deemed exclusive of any
other remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law.
(Ord. 6-07, 2-20-2007)
CHAPTER 13
SOLAR THERMAL LICENSES
SECTION:
14-13-1: Definition
14-13-2: Licenses
14-13-3: License Application
14-13-4: Application Contents
14-13-5: Application Approval
14-13-6: License Renewal
14-13-7: Exemption
14-13-1: DEFINITION:
"Solar thermal system" means active mechanical equipment that directly converts
and then transfers or stores solar energy into usable forms of thermal energy.
(Ord. 8-11, 1-18-2011)
14-13-2: LICENSES:
No person shall install or alter or repair solar thermal systems without a
solar thermal license. (Ord. 8-11, 1-18-2011)
14-13-3: LICENSE APPLICATION:
A solar thermal license application shall be submitted to the city manager or
the city manager's designee with an application fee as set by the city manager.
(Ord. 8-11, 1-18-2011)
14-13-4: APPLICATION CONTENTS:
An application for a solar thermal license shall contain the following
information:
   A.   Name.
   B.   Address.
   C.   Business name, if applicable.
   D.   Proof of liability insurance.
   E.   Proof of either:
      1.   A North American board of certified energy practitioners (NABCEP)
solar thermal certification, or
      2.   Completion of the Northeast Iowa Community College (NICC) forty (40)
hour solar thermal coursework and two (2) training installations and received
the Dubuque solar thermal certification or other coursework and training as
approved by the city manager.
   F.   Any other information required by the city manager or the city
manager's designee. (Ord. 8-11, 1-18-2011)
14-13-5: APPLICATION APPROVAL:
Upon finding that an applicant has submitted the required information and meets
the requirements, a solar thermal license will be issued. (Ord. 8-11, 1-18-
2011)
14-13-6: LICENSE RENEWAL:
A solar thermal license shall be valid for one calendar year. License holders
may renew a license by applying for and paying the fee for renewal as set by
the city manager. (Ord. 8-11, 1-18-2011)
14-13-7: EXEMPTION:
No license shall be required of a homeowner to install or alter a solar thermal
system for the homeowner's personal residence provided the homeowner has
received certification for solar thermal system installation from NICC or
completed other coursework and training as approved by the city manager or the
city manager's designee. (Ord. 8-11, 1-18-2011)
CHAPTER 14
SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEM PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS
SECTION:
14-14-1: Definition
14-14-2: Permit Required
14-14-3: Permit Application
14-14-4: Inspections Required
14-14-5: Shading Of Solar Collectors
14-14-6: Liquid Systems
14-14-7: Monitoring
14-14-8: Use Of Wood In Solar Collection Systems
14-14-9: Heat Transfer Fluid
14-14-10: Rating
14-14-1: DEFINITION:
"Solar thermal system" means equipment that directly converts and then
transfers or stores solar energy into usable forms of thermal energy. (Ord. 9-
11, 1-18-2011)
14-14-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A permit shall be obtained from the city manager or the city manager's designee
for the installation of or alteration to a solar thermal system. Information
shall be attached to an application for a permit as set by the city manager or
the city manager's designee. (Ord. 9-11, 1-18-2011)
14-14-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:
A permit application shall be submitted to the city manager and must include:
   A.   Applicant name.
   B.   Applicant address.
   C.   Business name, if applicable.
   D.   Solar thermal license number, if applicable.
   E.   Project address.
   F.   A plot plan showing the proposed location of solar collector and any
tree and/or structure that presently casts a shadow within twenty feet (20') of
the proposed collector location.
   G.   Detailed drawings of all piping, pumps, blowers, wiring, storage
vessels, dampers, valves, insulation, location of the backflow prevention
device, and all other material that will be required to install the system.
   H.   Any other information required by the city manager or the city
manager's designee. (Ord. 9-11, 1-18-2011)
14-14-4: INSPECTIONS REQUIRED:
Inspections of solar thermal systems are required prior to activation and shall
be performed by the city manager or the city manager's designee. (Ord. 9-11, 1-
18-2011)
14-14-5: SHADING OF SOLAR COLLECTORS:
No more than fifteen percent (15%) of the area of the solar path shading
diagram shall be obstructed between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and three o'clock
(3:00) P.M. throughout the year. (Ord. 9-11, 1-18-2011)
14-14-6: LIQUID SYSTEMS:
   A.   Piping And Penetration:
      1.   When two (2) or more collectors are installed in any one system, a
reverse flow piping configuration shall be used unless an alternate flow
configuration is recommended by the manufacturer.
      2.   No permanent piping shall connect the solar system with potable
water.
      3.   All piping shall be able to withstand a temperature of three hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (350°F), preferably rigid or soft copper type "M" or
thicker.
      4.   All solar loop building penetrations shall be made using
weatherproof devices which will allow for expansion and contraction. All
penetrations into the building shall be weatherproofed to prevent leaks,
insects, and drafts from entering the building.
      5.   All of the components of a closed loop solar collector system shall
be sized to provide adequate flow to the collectors.
      6.   The solar loop shall incorporate a check valve downstream of the
heat exchanger if collectors are mounted above the storage tank.
      7.   Automatic air vents shall be disconnected from the solar loop by a
ball valve.
      8.   Minimum design standard shall be the 2009 uniform solar energy code
as it relates to solar thermal installations.
   B.   Pipe Insulation:
      1.   All pipe insulation in the solar collection system shall be at least
R-5 in insulating value.
      2.   Exterior pipe insulation shall be resistant to ultraviolet and
environmental degradation and shall be covered by material providing weather
resistance, UV protection, and mechanical abuse protection. Exterior insulation
joints, seams, and connections shall be sealed to prevent entry of moisture.
      3.   Solar supply loop shall be insulated with three hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (350°F) rated insulation approved for solar applications.
      4.   Heat traps or check valves shall be included on all supply and
discharge lines for the storage tank.
   C.   Storage Tanks: Storage tanks shall have a tempering valve adjustable to
one hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit (120°F) downstream from the regular water
heater and heat trap. (Ord. 9-11, 1-18-2011)
14-14-7: MONITORING:
A temperature appropriate pressure gauge shall be installed in the solar loop.
The solar loop supply and return and the discharge line of the tempering valve
shall have thermometers. (Ord. 9-11, 1-18-2011)
14-14-8: USE OF WOOD IN SOLAR COLLECTION SYSTEMS:
All wood components used in collector mounting which are exposed to the weather
shall be pressure treated wood, meeting interim federal specifications TT-W-
571J-Rev. 1974, as amended or revised. Wood used in collector frames or housing
shall be protected against pyrolysis. (Ord. 9-11, 1-18-2011)
14-14-9: HEAT TRANSFER FLUID:
The heat transfer fluid used in the collectors shall be isolated from the
potable water supply through the use of an approved double wall heat exchanger
or two (2) separate coils, one for solar fluid and one for DHW in unpressurized
tank. (Ord. 9-11, 1-18-2011)
14-14-10: RATING:
The solar thermal panels and equipment shall have an SRCC rating of OG 100 or
OG 300. (Ord. 9-11, 1-18-2011)
CHAPTER 15
WATER
SECTION:
14-15-1: Definitions
14-15-2: Water Supply
14-15-3: Geothermal Well Standards
14-15-4: Water Well Supply System
14-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
ANNULAR SPACE: The space between the casing or well screen and the wall of the
borehole or between drilling pipe and casing or between two (2) separate
strings of casing.
AQUIFER: A subsurface water bearing layer of soil, sand, gravel or rock that
will yield usable quantities of water to a well.
BOREHOLE: A hole drilled or bored into the earth, usually for exploratory or
economic purposes; a hole into which casing, screen and other materials may be
installed to construct a well.
CASING: An impervious, durable pipe placed in a borehole to prevent the walls
of the borehole from caving, and to seal off surface drainage or undesirable
water, gas or other fluids and prevent entrance into a well.
DRINKING WATER: Water which is intended for human consumption and other
domestic uses, and is considered to be free of harmful chemicals and disease
causing microorganisms.
GEOTHERMAL BOREHOLE: A hole drilled or bored into the earth into which piping
is inserted for use in a geothermal system.
GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM: A mechanism for heat transfer by fluid to air processes and
heat transfer by fluid to fluid processes which consists of the following basic
elements: underground loops of piping; heat transfer fluid; a heat pump; and an
air distribution system.
   A.   Open Loop Geothermal System: Groundwater is pumped from a water well
into a heat exchanger located in a surface building and is then pumped back
into the aquifer through a different well, the same well, or to the surface of
the ground or to a surface body of water, also known as pump and dump.
   B.   Closed Vertical Loop Or Horizontal Geothermal System: A borehole
extends beneath the surface. Pipes are installed with U-bends at the bottom or
at the end of the boreholes. The pipes are connected to the heat exchanger and
heat transfer fluid is circulated through the pipes.
GROUNDWATER: Water beneath the earth's surface, that occurs between saturated
soil and rock that supplies wells and springs.
GROUT: A low permeability material that is emplaced in the space between the
wall of the borehole and the casing of a well and/or emplaced on the wall of
the borehole. Grout shall consist of materials designed to adequately seal the
annular space like neat cement, high solids bentonite slurry, or hydrated
bentonite chips.
HEAT EXCHANGER: A device usually made of coils of pipe that transfers heat from
one medium to another; for example, from water to air or water to water.
HEAT TRANSFER FLUID: Any liquid used specifically for the purpose of
transferring thermal energy from the heat source to another location.
LOW PERMEABILITY MATERIAL: A geological unit of unconsolidated material
(usually clay or till) or bedrock (usually shale) that is all or partially
saturated, and having permeability low enough (10-7 cm/sec) to give water in
the aquifer artesian head and/or provide protections to aquifers from
activities taking place at the ground surface or within the geologic unit
directly above the low permeability material.
MAJOR GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM: A horizontal or vertical closed loop system that is
located more than twenty feet (20') below the ground surface.
MINOR GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM: A horizontal closed loop system that is placed at or
less than twenty feet (20') below the ground surface.
PERMEABILITY: The propensity of a material to allow fluid to move through its
pores or interstices.
SEPARATION/ISOLATION DISTANCES: The distance of a source of contamination from
a surface drinking water source, a groundwater source supply well, or any type
of borehole that is identified and/or regulated by the Iowa department of
natural resources.
SURFACE WATER: Water located on the surface of the earth in water bodies such
as lakes, rivers, streams, ponds and reservoirs.
TREMIE: A tubing string (typically about 1 to 3 inches in diameter) that is
temporarily installed into the borehole during well construction. The tremie
pipe is used for installing annular material such as filter pack sand and
grout.
WATER SUPPLY WELL: A well used by public water systems, or nonpublic use, for
extracting groundwater for human consumption.
WELL: Any excavation that is drilled, cored, driven, dug, bored, augured,
jetted, washed or is otherwise constructed for the purpose of exploring for
groundwater, monitoring groundwater, utilizing the geothermal properties of the
ground, or extracting water from or injecting water into the aquifer. "Well"
does not include an open ditch, drain tiles, an excavation made for obtaining
or prospecting for oil, drain tiles, natural gas, minerals, or products mined
or quarried, lateral geothermal heat exchange systems nor temporary dewatering
wells such as those used during the construction of subsurface facilities only
for the duration of the construction. (Ord. 37-15, 6-1-2015)
14-15-2: WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   All water supply installations for major and minor subdivisions in the
city limits shall be properly connected with an approved and functioning public
water supply system.
   B.   If a public water supply system is to be provided to the area within a
three (3) year period as indicated in the comprehensive plan, the city council
may require installation of a capped system within the street or road right of
way; or the city council may require a payment in lieu of the improvement.
   C.   All proposals for new public water supply systems or extensions to
existing public water systems, or the use of wells and other water sources,
shall be approved by the city manager.
   D.   The water supply system shall be adequate to handle the necessary flow
based on complete development of the subdivision and extensions of the system
to areas beyond the subdivision. Water supply system design and placement shall
comply with the city standards.
   E.   Fire hydrant size, type, location and installation shall comply with
the minimum city standards. (Ord. 37-15, 6-1-2015)
14-15-3: GEOTHERMAL WELL STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to protect the health,
safety and general welfare of the people of the city of Dubuque by ensuring
that groundwater will not be polluted or contaminated. Because of the serious
potential of adverse environmental impacts, this section is intended to
prohibit all open loop geothermal systems. This section allows for closed loop
systems subject to the requirements contained in this section for the
construction, reconstruction, repair and destruction of geothermal wells. The
construction of geothermal wells must use construction standards designed to
adequately protect the aquifers in each specific geologic setting encountered
and in all other criteria, comply with 567 Iowa administrative code chapter 49.
All well services must be performed with an Iowa department of natural
resources certified well contractor as required by 567 Iowa administrative code
chapter 82. The certified well contractor must be on site and in direct control
of all well services being performed.
   B.   Permit Required:
      1.   Prior to the construction of any well, the well contractor must
obtain a private water well construction permit from the Dubuque County health
department and a permit from the building services department, and where
applicable, an Iowa department of natural resources permit as required by 567
Iowa administrative code chapter 50-52 and Iowa Code chapter 455B, division
III, part 4.
      2.   No person may dig, bore, drill, replace, modify, repair or destroy a
geothermal well or any other excavation that may intersect groundwater without
first applying for and receiving a permit from the building services
department.
   C.   Application Procedure: Applications for permits required by this
section must be made on forms provided by the building services department and
must contain all such information as required on the form. The application must
be submitted by the property owner, the owner's representative, or the well
contractor and accompanied by the required filing fee. Minor closed loop
systems may be authorized by the building official in consultation with the
water department manager and city engineer. An application for a major
geothermal system must include an environmental impact analysis prepared by an
engineer licensed in the state of Iowa. Geothermal permits will be reviewed by
the city engineer and building official who will then make a recommendation to
the city manager.
   D.   Site Plan Requirement: A site plan showing the generally proposed
location, number of wells, location of loops, including description and MSDS
sheets of the heat transfer fluid, must be submitted with the application. The
plan must include the calculated anticipated volume of grout that will be
required. The plan must identify the heat transfer fluid including MSDS sheets.
Heat transfer fluids that are toxic as identified by the international plumbing
code under essentially toxic transfer fluids will not be accepted, and fluids
must comply with 567 Iowa administrative code section 49.29(5). Geothermal pipe
loops must be of approved material for geothermal installation, must have a
fifty (50) year warranty against defect and workmanship, and must be installed
with a tracer wire. A base map showing any known operating and/or nonoperating
mines is also required with the application. Base maps are available online by
the city engineering department and/or by the Iowa department of natural
resources geologists. Construction of a geothermal heat pump system (GHEX)
within close proximity of mineshafts and mine workings has the potential of
creating additional hazards to both the structural integrity of the GHEX system
as well as increasing vulnerability to the shallow aquifer.
   E.   Location Of Geothermal Systems: The site plan must show the property
boundaries and easements of record and must detail where the system is located
on the property. Location of all loops must be within the property boundaries
of the building lot and not encroach on any recorded easements. Major systems
may not be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a current city well or
water source. Minor systems may not be located within two hundred feet (200')
of a city deep (Jordan/Cambrian-Ordovician) well or within four hundred feet
(400') of a city shallow (alluvial aquifer) well. No geothermal system is
allowed to be constructed within a five hundred foot (500') radius of an
identified leaking underground storage tank (LUST) site.
   F.   Permit Fee: A permit fee, established by the city manager, must be
submitted with any application required by this section.
   G.   Permit Suspension And Revocation: The city manager may suspend or
revoke any permit issued pursuant to this section whenever the city manager
finds that the permittee has violated any of the provisions of this section or
has misrepresented any material fact in the application or any supporting
documents, or where the well or its use may pose a risk to groundwater quality,
human health or the environment or should the system fail any of its mandated
testing requirements.
   H.   Open Loop Systems Prohibited: Open loop systems are prohibited.
   I.   Testing Of System: Geothermal piping systems must be tested as required
by the building services manager prior to operation of the system and every
three (3) years thereafter. All geothermal systems must be pressure checked by
a certified contractor not less than every three (3) years from the
certification system date. Results of the tests must be submitted to the
building services department.
   J.   Abandonment Of Geothermal Systems: Abandonment of geothermal systems
must be as required in 567 Iowa administrative code section 49.28. The heat
transfer fluid must be removed by a displacement with grout and the loop pipes
properly capped or sealed by an approved method. The top of the borehole must
also be uncovered and properly capped or sealed by an approved method.
   K.   Regulation Conflict: In the event any of the provisions of this section
conflict with any state or federal regulation, the state or federal regulation
will control.
   L.   Compliance: All procedures and methods for construction of geothermal
wells must comply with 567 Iowa administrative code chapters 82 and 49 for
nonpublic water supply wells and all applicable regulations of the United
States environmental protection agency.
   M.   Existing Systems: Except for provisions in subsection B2 of this
section regarding replacement, modification, repair or destruction, this
section does not apply to systems in existence on the date of the adoption of
this chapter. (Ord. 37-15, 6-1-2015)
14-15-4: WATER WELL SUPPLY SYSTEM:
   A.   Wells Prohibited: Except as provided in subsections
14-15-2C and
14-15-3B of this chapter, no person may construct a well within the corporate
limits.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   The building services department may issue a permit upon such
conditions and limitations as appropriate for the construction of a well
installed for the purpose of groundwater monitoring and/or gauging and/or
environmental investigation (investigative well).
      2.   The city manager may issue a special exception permit for the
construction of other types of wells if the city manager determines in the city
manager's sole discretion that connection to the public water supply is not
economically feasible. The city manager is under no obligation to issue a
special exception permit and the authority to grant a special exception permit
includes the authority to place conditions on the installation, use, operation,
and the abandonment of wells, as well as the authority to establish fees for
the administration, oversight, and monitoring as the city manager deems
appropriate.
      3.   If an investigative well or special exception permit is issued, all
well services must be performed with an Iowa department of natural resources
certified well contractor as required by 567 Iowa administrative code chapter
82. The certified well contractor must be on site and in direct control of all
well services being performed.
   C.   Well Permit:
      1.   A permit application must be completed and where applicable, an Iowa
department of natural resources permit as required by 567 Iowa administrative
code chapter 50-52 and Iowa Code chapter 455B, division III, part 4, be
submitted to the building services department or city manager, as appropriate.
The application must contain a copy of an approved county private well
construction permit. No well may be located within the influence of an existing
or proposed city owned well site as determined by the city manager, nor be
constructed within a five hundred foot (500') radius of an identified leaking
underground storage tank (LUST) site.
      2.   A permit fee, established by the city manager, must be submitted
with any application required by this section.
   D.   Existing Wells: This section does not apply to a private well in
existence on the date of the adoption of this chapter. The repair and
modification of an existing well is also allowed, however, the capacity of an
existing well may not be expanded and may be repaired and/or modified only upon
receiving a permit from the building services department.
   E.   Compliance: All procedures and methods for the construction of a
private well must comply with 567 Iowa administrative code chapters 82 and 49
for water supplies, design, and operation and with all applicable regulations
of the United States environmental protection agency.
   F.   Connection To Public Water Supply Prohibited: Wells may not be
connected directly or indirectly to the public water supply. (Ord. 37-15, 6-1-
2015)
TITLE 15
PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 1
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
15-1-1: Comprehensive Plan Defined
15-1-2: Elements Of Comprehensive Plan
15-1-3: Community Planning Defined
15-1-1: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN DEFINED:
The "comprehensive plan" is the community's principal tool to guide its future
development, public policies and decision making. The comprehensive plan is
only intended as a guide and shall not be interpreted or construed to give rise
to any enforceable rights or remedies. Such community plan must:
   A.   Be value driven;
   B.   Be the product of and periodically tested and updated by a community
planning process;
   C.   Involve all aspects of the community (physical, environmental, social,
cultural, economic, emotional and spiritual);
   D.   Be long range in focus, covering a period of from ten (10) to fifteen
(15) years;
   E.   Include the entire community geographically, not just one or more
sections;
   F.   Be action oriented;
   G.   Be approved by city council resolution. (2007 Code § 36-1)
15-1-2: ELEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The comprehensive plan consists of the following elements:
   A.   Shared Vision Statement: This element summarizes the shared vision
which is a product of the community planning process.
   B.   Statement Of Policy, Goals And Objectives: This element explains the
direction, ideals and desires which the comprehensive plan is intended to
satisfy. This element serves as the justification for many of the planning and
budget decisions and ordinances and regulations which follow.
   C.   Inventory Analysis: This element includes a complete description of
current conditions in the community and represents a shared database for use in
developing the various elements of the comprehensive plan. It includes
population characteristics and projections; income information; housing
information; economic activity (retail, services and industry); employment
characteristics and needs; natural environment (soils, climate, vegetation, and
topography); transportation information; survey of existing land use; utility
systems; community facilities; history and culture of the residents; problems
and issues identified by community planning process; feelings and image of the
community as viewed by its residents; and similar data. This analysis should
identify community trends, project such trends into the future and assess the
probable impact. The inventory analysis should identify and include all
appropriate studies and analysis done by city, county, state and federal
agencies.
   D.   Land Use Element: This element includes a description of existing land
use patterns and identifies the best future physical development of the
community. It becomes the guide for the official zoning map and for making
zoning and subdivision decisions, but only such decisions by the city council
may be binding and enforceable. It is the guide in regard to the best
utilization of private and public development, the timing of that development
and its association with other public improvements.
   E.   Transportation Element: The total transportation network which serves
the community is inventoried, mapped and evaluated in this element. In addition
to the local streets and highways, this element includes air traffic (passenger
and freight handling); railroad service; other public transportation (bus and
traffic type modes) and water transportation.
   F.   Housing Element: This element considers the present condition of
housing; the community's housing needs in terms of condition, availability and
affordability and future demand. Areas with housing in need of substantial
rehabilitation and maintenance are identified, and financial and service
assistance are addressed as they relate to improving the housing stock.
   G.   City Physical Infrastructure Element: This element analyzes the current
and future needs of the city's physical infrastructure system. These future
needs must be compatible and consistent with the land use plan and
transportation plan. The city's physical infrastructure includes:
      1.   Parks and open spaces plan;
      2.   Water treatment and distribution plan;
      3.   Wastewater collection and treatment plan;
      4.   Stormwater management plan;
      5.   Floodwall management plan;
      6.   Library long range plan;
      7.   Parking system long range plan;
      8.   Solid waste management plan;
      9.   Capital improvements program (CIP);
      10.   Electric, natural gas, cable TV and telecommunications distribution
plans;
      11.   Public buildings plans of city, county and school systems;
      12.   Vacant land study (capability for development).
   H.   Public Safety Element: This element reviews the current and future
needs of the police, fire, communications, and code enforcement activities
based upon current and projected workload and community goals, desires and
priorities.
   I.   Public Health Element: This element determines the current and future
public health needs and priorities of the community. This element should look
specifically at community public health nursing services, communicable disease
prevention and control issues and actions and environmental health needs and
actions.
   J.   Public Education Element: This element is concerned with the quality
and quantity of education provided to the community by the public, parochial
and private education districts and facilities. (This element should be
completed by such education providers and includes an inventory of facilities,
conditions, programs, uses, statistics, needs, improvements planned, etc.)
   K.   Human Services Element: This element studies current efforts and needs
in providing basic services and amenities to the needy, disadvantaged and
underemployed. (This element should be completed by human services providers
and include the delivery of services, programs, uses and conditions of
facilities, client data, needs, plans, etc.)
   L.   Special Plans Element: This element includes areas and issues of
special concern which require special consideration and planning. These
include:
      1.   Economic development plan;
      2.   Long range annexation plan;
      3.   Downtown redevelopment plan;
      4.   Historic preservation plan;
      5.   Tourism development plan;
      6.   Riverfront development plan;
      7.   Freeway corridor plan;
      8.   Urban renewal plan;
      9.   Urban revitalization plan.
   M.   Implementation Element: This element details the necessary and agreed
upon action steps, responsibility, schedule and cost to implement the goals,
objectives and recommendations of the comprehensive plan. The community
planning process should serve to assist the city council, city administration
and community leaders in prioritizing implementation. (2007 Code § 36-2)
15-1-3: COMMUNITY PLANNING DEFINED:
"Community planning" is the process by which the community decides what kind of
future it wants by establishing a shared vision of the future and then
establishes the policies, goals and management tools (i.e., specific plans,
assignments and regulations) to help reach that desired future. The emphasis is
on a process and direction more than on a plan or document. The community
planning process is comprehensive in scope, future oriented, highly
participatory and emphasizes consensus decision making. (2007 Code § 36-3)
CHAPTER 2
LONG RANGE PLANNING ADVISORY COMMISSION
SECTION:
15-2-1: Commission Created
15-2-2: Purpose
15-2-3: Internal Organization And Rules
15-2-4: Procedures For Operation
15-2-5: Membership
15-2-6: Oath
15-2-7: Terms
15-2-8: Vacancies
15-2-9: Officers/Organization
15-2-10: Meetings
15-2-11: Compensation
15-2-12: Removal
15-2-13: Powers
15-2-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the long range planning advisory commission. (Ord. 62-
15, 9-21-2015)
15-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commission is to foster the community planning process,
develop policies, goals, plans, and management tools based on a consensus of
community values, and help guide the community's future development, public
policies, and decision making. (Ord. 62-15, 9-21-2015)
15-2-3: INTERNAL ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
The commission may adopt rules and regulations to govern its organizational
procedures as may be necessary and which are not in conflict with this code or
the Iowa Code. (Ord. 62-15, 9-21-2015)
15-2-4: PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary, and procurement policies
of the city govern the commission in all its operations. (Ord. 62-15, 9-21-
2015)
15-2-5: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Composition: The commission comprises seven (7) residents of the city,
appointed by the city council.
   B.   Qualifications:
      1.   All members must be qualified by their knowledge, experience, and
ability to contribute to the city's long range planning and development
efforts.
      2.   Cross-Representation: One (1) member must be appointed by and from
the membership of the Housing Commission, with city council approval. (Ord. 62-
15, 9-21-2015; amd. Ord. 4-21, 2-15-2021; Ord. 36-24, 6-17-2024)
15-2-6: OATH:
Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an oath of office
at the first meeting of the commission following the appointment or at the city
clerk's office any time prior to the first meeting of the commission. (Ord. 62-
15, 9-21-2015; amd. Ord. 36-24, 6-17-2024)
15-2-7: TERMS:
The term of office for commissioners is three (3) years or until such
commissioner's successor is appointed and qualified. The term of the cross-
representative appointee to the Long Range Planning Advisory Commission must
coincide with their term on the Housing Commission. (Ord. 62-15, 9-21-2015;
amd. Ord. 4-21, 2-15-2021)
15-2-8: VACANCIES:
Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original appointments. (Ord. 62-
15, 9-21-2015)
15-2-9: OFFICERS/ORGANIZATION:
The commissioners must choose annually a chairperson and vice chairperson, each
to serve a term of one year. The chairperson must appoint a secretary, who need
not be a member of the commission. The commissioners must fill a vacancy among
its officers for the remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 62-15, 9-
21-2015)
15-2-10: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meetings: Meetings may be called by the Chairperson or at the written
request of a majority of the Commissioners.
   B.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance with
the Iowa Open Meetings Law.
   C.   Attendance:
      1.   In the event a Commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
Chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the City Council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
      2.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
   D.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings of
the commission must be filed with the City Council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled City
Council meeting, whichever is later.
   E.   Quorum: Four (4) Commissioners constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the Commissioners present
and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or resolution. (Ord. 46-
16, 9-19-2016; amd. Ord. 36-24, 6-17-2024)
15-2-11: COMPENSATION:
Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that they may receive
reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on official
commission business within the limits established in the City administrative
policies and budget. (Ord. 62-15, 9-21-2015)
15-2-12: REMOVAL:
Except as provided in subsection
15-2-10C1 of this chapter, the City Council may remove any Commissioner for
good cause. (Ord. 62-15, 9-21-2015)
15-2-13: POWERS:
The commission has the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
   A.   To provide a leadership role in the planning, coordinating, and
sponsoring of a periodic community planning process;
   B.   To coordinate and supervise the preparation and maintenance of the
Comprehensive Plan;
   C.   To provide input to the City Manager in the preparation of the City
Manager's recommended multiyear Capital Improvement Program;
   D.   To make comprehensive studies of the present condition and the future
growth of the City to provide input into the community planning process and to
guide and accomplish a coordinated, consistent, and harmonious development in
accordance with the present and future needs thereof to the end that the
health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare may
be promoted;
   E.   To make or cause to be made such surveys, studies, maps, plans, or
charts of the City with due regard to its relation to neighboring territory as
may be determined as necessary to carry out the purposes of the commission;
   F.   To recommend amendments to all or parts of the Comprehensive Plan in
response to the community planning process, upon its own initiative or upon
recommendation presented by the Zoning Advisory Commission, but only after a
public hearing;
   G.   To review proposed urban renewal plans and urban revitalization plans
for consistency with the Comprehensive Plan;
   H.   To undertake public information efforts to enhance public understanding
of the community planning process generally and the Comprehensive Plan
specifically; and
   I.   To undertake from time to time other specific long range planning
projects which may be referred to the commission by the City Council. (Ord. 41-
17, 9-5-2017)
TITLE 16
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
16-1-1: Title
16-1-2: Purpose
16-1-3: Minimum Requirements Interpretation
16-1-4: Relationship To City Code
16-1-5: Relationship To Comprehensive Plan
16-1-6: Applicability Of Prior Regulations
16-1-7: Administration
16-1-8: Issuance Of Building Permits
16-1-9: City Planner
16-1-9-1: Duties Of City Planner
16-1-9-2: Interpretation By City Planner
16-1-10: Violations And Penalties
16-1-10-1: Complaints Regarding Violations
16-1-10-2: Enforcement Procedure
16-1-10-3: Orders And Directives
16-1-11: Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances
16-1-12: Not A Licensing Ordinance
16-1-13: Private Agreements
16-1-14: Overlapping Or Contradictory Regulations
16-1-15: Code References
16-1-16: Cumulative Provisions
16-1-17: Severability
16-1-18: Effective Date
16-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE of the city of Dubuque, Iowa, herein referred to as this
title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   This title as herein established has been made for the purpose of
promoting the health, safety, sustainability and general welfare of the
community, and for the protection and preservation of places and areas of
historical and cultural importance and significance.
   B.   This title has been designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to
secure safety from fire and other hazards; to provide adequate light and air;
to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of
population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewage, schools, and parks; and to encourage sustainable design and
development.
   C.   This title has been made with reasonable consideration of the character
of the district and its suitability for the particular uses, and with a view of
conserving the value of buildings, encouraging the most appropriate use of land
throughout the community. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-3: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS INTERPRETATION:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, comfort, prosperity, sustainability and general
welfare. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-4: RELATIONSHIP TO CITY CODE:
The use of buildings and land within the city shall be subject to all
applicable provisions of this code and other ordinances, as well as this title,
whether or not those other provisions of this code are specifically cross
referenced in this title. Cross reference to other provisions of this code
found in this title are provided for the convenience of the reader; lack of a
cross reference should not be construed as an indication that other provisions
of this code do not apply. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-5: RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
It is the intention of this title to implement the goals, principles, and
objectives reflected in the comprehensive plan as adopted by the city. While
the city reaffirms its commitment that the provisions of this title and any
amendment made to this title shall conform to adopted planning policies, the
city acknowledges its intent that neither this title nor any amendment of this
title may be challenged merely on the basis of an alleged nonconformity with
the comprehensive plan. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-6: APPLICABILITY OF PRIOR REGULATIONS:
   A.   All violations of prior zoning or other regulations of the city,
existing on the effective date hereof, shall continue to be violations and
shall not be considered to be legal nonconforming situations under this title.
The city shall have the same authority to secure civil remedies for violations
of those regulations to the same extent that it may secure civil remedies for
violations of this title.
   B.   All permits, applications, certificates and other authorizations
submitted or approved prior to the effective date hereof shall be governed by
the regulations in effect at the time of the submission or approval. (Ord. 52-
09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-7: ADMINISTRATION:
The provisions of this title shall be administered and enforced by the city
planner. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-8: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS:
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to, or
structurally altered without a building permit therefor, issued by the building
official. However, no such building permit shall be issued by the building
official except in conformity with the provisions of this title, unless the
building official receives a written order from the zoning board of adjustment
in the form of an administrative review, conditional use permit, special
exception or variance. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-9: CITY PLANNER:
The city planner shall be responsible for the enforcement and administration of
this title. The city planner may be provided with the assistance of such other
persons as the city manager may direct. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-9-1: DUTIES OF CITY PLANNER:
The city planner shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
   A.   To enforce the provisions of this title by investigating information
concerning violations thereof, and taking such actions or issuing such orders
or directives as are deemed appropriate to ensure compliance with this title.
   B.   To keep accurate and complete records of all investigations,
enforcement proceedings, site plans, PUD preliminary or final development
plans, zoning correspondence and such other records as the city planner may be
required to keep under the provisions of this title.
   C.   To faithfully and promptly execute all other duties or responsibilities
delegated to the city planner under this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-9-2: INTERPRETATION BY CITY PLANNER:
In making any judgment, interpretation, or decision authorized by this title,
the city planner shall consider and be guided by the particular provisions of
this title and relevant statements of intent contained herein; provided,
however, that nothing herein shall be deemed to authorize the city planner in
the performance of the city planner's duties to permit any exception to, or
variance from the provisions or requirements of this title, or to otherwise
impinge upon the powers vested in the zoning board of adjustment. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-1-10: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
16-1-10-1: COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever a violation of this title occurs or is alleged to have occurred, any
person may file a complaint of such alleged violation with the city planner
stating fully the facts or grounds upon which the complaint is based. The city
planner shall promptly record and investigate such complaint and take
appropriate action as provided by this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-10-2: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE:
Whenever the city planner finds that any of the provisions of this title are
being violated, the city planner shall promptly notify in writing both the
person(s) responsible for such violations and the city manager, indicating in
such notice the nature of the violation and the actions ordered to correct it.
The city planner shall in all cases take such actions or issue such orders or
directives as are authorized by this title to ensure compliance with or to
prevent violations of its provisions. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-10-3: ORDERS AND DIRECTIVES:
In addition to all other powers conferred upon the city planner by this title,
the city planner shall have the power to issue appropriate written orders or
directives to any person deemed to be responsible for a violation of this
title, as provided in section
16-1-9-1 of this chapter. A failure to promptly comply with such lawful orders
or directives shall be deemed a violation of this title, punishable as provided
herein. Such orders or directives shall include, but shall not be limited to:
orders to discontinue illegal use of land, buildings, or structures; orders to
remove illegal buildings or structures, or illegal additions, alterations or
structural changes to buildings or structures; orders to discontinue illegal
work or construction or any other appropriate orders to prevent or correct
violations of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-11: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
Upon the effective date and publication of this title, all existing ordinances
in conflict herewith and all amendments thereto shall be, and the same hereby
are repealed. However, in the event that this title shall fail to become
effective for any reason whatsoever, all existing ordinances and all amendments
thereto shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-12: NOT A LICENSING ORDINANCE:
Nothing contained in this title shall be deemed to be a consent, license or
permit to use any property or to locate, construct or maintain any building,
structure or facility or to carry on any trade, industry, occupation or
activity. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-13: PRIVATE AGREEMENTS:
This title is not intended to abrogate, annul or otherwise interfere with any
easement, covenant or any other private agreement or legal relationship;
provided, however, that where the regulations of this title are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such easement,
covenant or other private agreement of legal relationship, the regulations of
this title shall govern. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-14: OVERLAPPING OR CONTRADICTORY REGULATIONS:
Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title upon the use of
land, buildings, or structures are either more restrictive or less restrictive
than comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of this title or of
any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulations of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive shall govern. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-15: CODE REFERENCES:
Any references herein to sections of this code are to those sections in force
on the effective date hereof and shall be deemed to refer to the successor
section, if any, in the event the section referenced is renumbered. (Ord. 52-
09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-16: CUMULATIVE PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this title are cumulative and additional limitations upon all
other laws and ordinances, heretofore passed or which may be passed hereafter,
governing any subject matter in this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-17: SEVERABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the
provisions of this title are separable, in accordance with the following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provisions
of this title.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this title to a particular parcel of land, a
building or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of
said provisions to any other parcel of land, building or structure. (Ord. 52-
09, 10-19-2009)
16-1-18: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This title shall be in force and effect on the day of its final passage,
adoption and publication as provided by law. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
16-2-1: Rules
16-2-2: Acronyms
16-2-3: Definitions
16-2-1: RULES:
For the purpose of this title, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Words used in the present tense include the future.
   B.   Words in the singular number include the plural and words in the plural
number include singular.
   C.   The word "shall" or the word "must" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   D.   The words "used for" include the meaning "arranged for", "designed
for", "occupied or intended to be occupied for".
   E.   The particular controls the general.
   F.   In case of a difference of meaning or implication between the text of
this title and the captions for each section, the text shall control.
   G.   All references to the city manager shall include the city manager or
appropriate designee.
   H.   The city manager hereby designates the planning services manager as the
city planner as referenced in this title.
   I.   The city manager hereby designates the building services manager as the
building official as referenced in this title.
   J.   Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act is
to be completed shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the
last day, unless it is Sunday, which shall be included in the computation of
time. All acts must be completed within the time frame specified subject to
extension periods provided herein. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-2-2: ACRONYMS:
For the purpose of this title, the following abbreviations and acronyms shall
apply:
AASHTO American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials
AASHTO American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials
ADA    Americans with disabilities act
COE    U.S. army corps of engineers
EPA    Environmental protection agency
FAA    Federal aviation administration
FCC    Federal communications commission
FEMA   Federal emergency management agency
HPC    Historic preservation commission
HUD    U.S. department of housing and urban development
IDNR   Iowa department of natural resources
IDOT   Iowa department of transportation
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
NRCS   Natural resources conservation service
USDA   United States department of agriculture
ZAC    Zoning advisory commission
ZBA    Zoning board of adjustment
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
Words contained in this chapter are those having a special meaning relative to
the purposes of this title. Words not listed in this chapter shall be defined
by reference to: a) the current building code adopted by the city of Dubuque
or, if not defined therein; in b) the Webster's dictionary, unabridged, which
documents are hereby incorporated by reference as if herein set forth in their
entirety. Words and terms not defined in this chapter but defined elsewhere in
this code shall be given the meanings set forth therein.
 
                                 To cease or discontinue a use or activity not
                                 to be construed as short term interruptions
ABANDONMENT:                     such as during periods of remodeling,
                                 maintenance, or normal periods of vacation or
                                 seasonal closure.
                                 To border on, being contiguous with or have
ABUT, ABUTTING:                  property or district lines in common,
                                 including property separated by a right of way
                                 or railroad.
                                 The place, means, or way by which pedestrians
ACCESS OR ACCESSWAY:             and vehicles shall have safe, adequate and
                                 usable ingress and egress to a property or use
                                 as required by this title.
                                 A detached subordinate building or structure,
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: located on the same lot as the principal
                                 structure, the use of which is incidental and
                                 accessory to that of the principal structure.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4200.gif]
 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: A dwelling unit, but not a mobile home, allowed as a
conditional use as defined in this section.
ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS: Living quarters within an accessory building located
on the same premises with the main building, for use by temporary guests of the
occupant of the premises, such quarters having no kitchen facilities and not
rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling unit.
ACCESSORY USE: See definition of Use, Accessory.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land which does not qualify as a farm or
development.
ADJACENT: Near or close; for example, an industrial district across the street
or highway from a residential district shall be considered as adjacent.
ADULT DAY SERVICES, LICENSED: A facility providing care for the elderly and/or
functionally impaired adults in a protective setting for a portion of a twenty
four (24) hour day.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT: See section
4-8-2  of this code.
AGRICULTURAL AND FARM BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES: Any building or structure which
is necessary or incidental to the normal conduct of a farm including, but not
limited to, residence of the operator, residence of hired help, barns,
buildings and sheds for housing livestock, poultry and farm machinery,
buildings for the storage or shelter of grain, hay and other crops, silos,
windmills and water storage tanks.
AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS: See definition of Farming.
AGRICULTURE: Land suitable for use in farming and which is or will be operated
as a farm, including the raising, harvesting, and selling crops or by the
feeding, breeding, management, and sale of, or the produce of, livestock,
poultry, furbearing animals, or honeybees, or for dairying and the sale of
dairy products, or any other agricultural or horticultural use.
ALLEY: A public right of way with a width of twenty feet (20') or less which
affords a secondary means of access to abutting properties, not to be
considered a street.
ALTERATION: Any change, addition or modification in construction or occupancy
of an existing structure.
ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL: See definition of Structural Alteration.
AMENDMENT: A change in the wording, context, or substance of this title, an
addition or deletion or a change in the district boundaries or classifications
upon the official zoning map.
AMPHITHEATER: An outdoor area or structure characterized by tiers of seating,
specifically designed and used as a place of assembly during spectacles and
contests.
AMUSEMENT ARCADE: A building or a part of a building where the primary uses are
pinball machines, video games, or other similar player orientated amusement
devices which are available and are maintained for use.
AMUSEMENT PARK: A facility, primarily outdoors, that may include structures and
buildings, where there are various devices for entertainment, including rides,
booths for the conduct of games or sale of items, buildings for shows and
entertainment, and restaurants and souvenir sales.
ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION: A lot, yard, corral, building, or other area in which
animals are confined and fed and maintained for forty five (45) days or more in
any twelve (12) month period, and all structures used for the storage of manure
from animals in the operation. An animal feeding operation does not include a
livestock market. Open feedlots and confinement feeding operations are
considered to be separate animal feeding operations.
ANIMAL GROOMING SERVICE: Any place or establishment, public or private, where
animals are bathed, clipped, or combed for the purpose of enhancing their
aesthetic value or health and for which a fee is charged.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: See definition of Hospital, Animal.
ANIMALS, DOMESTIC: See definition of Household Pet.
ANTENNA: Any attached or external system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting
disks or similar devices used for the transmission or reception of
electromagnetic waves. See also definitions of Satellite Dish Antenna and
Tower.
ANTIQUE SHOP: A place offering primarily antiques for sale. An antique for the
purpose of this title shall be a work of art, piece of furniture, decorative
object, or the like, of belonging to the past, at least thirty (30) years old.
APARTMENT: A room or a suite of rooms within an apartment house or multiple-
family dwelling arranged, intended or designed for a place of residence of a
single family or group of individuals living together as a single housekeeping
unit. See also definition of Dwelling Unit.
APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple-Family.
APPEARANCE: The outward aspect visible to the public.
APPROPRIATE: Sympathetic, or fitting, to the context of the site and the whole
community.
APPURTENANCE: The visible, functional objects accessory to and part of
buildings.
ARCHITECTURAL CHARACTER OR CONCEPT: The basic aesthetic idea of a building, or
group of buildings or structures, including the site and landscape development
that produces the architectural character.
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE: A prominent or significant part or element of a
building, structure, or site. Architectural features may include special lines,
massing, and/or texture.
   Lines: Visual elements of the building, either within the facade or on the
building edge, which are in a linear form either horizontally or vertically and
may be composed of masonry, glass, or other related materials.
   Mass: The volume, bulk of a building or structure.
   Texture: The quality of a surface, ranging from mirror finish, smooth, to
coarse and unfinished.
ARCHITECTURAL STYLE: The characteristic form and detail, as of buildings of a
particular historic period.
ARTISAN PRODUCTION SHOP: A building or portion thereof used for the creation of
original handmade works of art or craft items by artists or artisans, as either
a principal or accessory use.
ARTIST STUDIO: A place designed to be used, or used as, a place of work or a
combination of both a dwelling place and a place of work, by an artist,
artisan, or craftsperson, including persons engaged in the application,
teaching, or performance of fine arts such as, but not limited to, drawing,
vocal or instrumental music, painting, sculpture, and writing.
ASSESSOR: The Dubuque city assessor or appointed designee.
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: A provision of housing with services which may
include, but not be limited to, health related care, personal care, and
assistance with instrumental activities of daily living in a physical structure
which provides a homelike environment.
ATTACHED, PERMANENTLY: Attached to real estate in such a way as to require
dismantling, cutting away, unbolting from permanent foundation or structural
change in such structure in order to relocate it to another site.
AUDITORIUM: A building or structure designed or intended for use for the
gathering of people as an audience to hear music, lectures, plays, and other
presentations.
AUTO SALVAGE DEALER: Any person who engages in the business of buying motor
vehicles, motorcycles, motorized bicycles or parts thereof or tires for resale
in whole or in part as junk or as used parts.
AUTOMATIC TELLER MACHINE (ATM): An automated device that performs banking or
financial functions on site or at a location remote from the controlling
financial institution.
AVERAGE GROUND LEVEL: A measurement that is determined by calculating the
vertical distance between the ground and the first floor level at the front of
a structure at several locations and then averaging the distance.
BALLROOM: A place or hall used for dancing, other than those listed under the
definition of "Adult Cabaret" (see section
4-8-2  of this code). Ballrooms shall also be used for reunions, weddings and
receptions.
BAR: Any establishment whose principal business is serving alcoholic beverages
at retail for consumption on the premises. See also definition of Nightclub.
BASEMENT: Any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a
floor level in the building having only one floor level shall be classified as
a basement unless such floor level qualifies as a first story. (See diagram for
story.)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4202.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4204.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4206.gif]
 
BEACON: Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same zone lot as the light source;
also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
BED AND BREAKFAST HOME: A structure containing a single dwelling unit, which
provides lodging and meals for overnight guests only, in which no more than
five (5) sleeping rooms are available for guests and is the principal residence
(as defined in the internal revenue code) of a person owning not less than
thirty percent (30%) of the fee title to the property. Each sleeping room in a
bed and breakfast home shall be at least one hundred forty (140) square feet in
area.
BED AND BREAKFAST INN: A structure containing a single dwelling unit with a
full time resident owner or resident manager which provides lodging and meals
for overnight guests only and has no more than nine (9) sleeping rooms
available. Each sleeping room shall be at least one hundred forty (140) square
feet in area.
BEDROOM: A room within a dwelling unit planned and intended for sleeping,
separable from other rooms by a door or doorway.
BERM: A raised form of earth to provide screening or to improve the aesthetic
character.
BIG BOX RETAIL STORE: See definition of Retail Commercial.
BIOFILTRATION: A pollution control technique that employs living material to
capture, sequester and/or biologically degrade pollutants.
BIOFUELS PLANT: A facility where the conversion of corn or other biomass
material into an alcohol fuel product is undertaken. The facility also includes
the processing of certain byproducts resulting from the fermentation and
distillation process.
BIOMASS: Plant material, used for the production of such things as fuel alcohol
and nonchemical fertilizers. Biomass sources may be plants grown especially for
that purpose or waste products from livestock, harvesting, milling, or from
agricultural production or processing.
BLOCK: A parcel of land platted into lots and bounded by public streets or by
waterways, rights of way, unplatted land, city-county boundaries, or adjoining
property lines.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4208.gif]
 
BLOCK FRONTAGE: See definition of Frontage, Block.
BOARD: The zoning board of adjustment of the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE: A building containing a single dwelling unit and
provisions where lodging is provided, with or without meals, for compensation.
BOAT DOCK: A structure built over or floating upon water and used as a landing
place for boats and other marine transport, fishing, swimming, and other
recreational uses.
BREEZEWAY: A roofed open passage connecting two (2) otherwise detached
buildings. Breezeway connections shall not be construed to alter the detached
status of the buildings so connected.
BREW ON PREMISES STORE: A facility that provides the ingredients and equipment
for a customer to use to brew malt liquor at the store. Brew on premises stores
do not include the sale of intoxicating liquor, unless the owner of the brew on
premises store holds the appropriate liquor license.
BREWERY: An industrial use that brews ales, beers, meads and/or similar
beverages on site. Breweries are classified as a use that manufactures more
than ten thousand (10,000) barrels of beverage (all beverages combined)
annually.
BREWERY, MICRO: A facility for the production and packaging of malt beverages
of low alcoholic content for distribution, retail or wholesale, on or off
premises, with a capacity of not more than ten thousand (10,000) barrels per
year. The development may include other uses such as standard restaurant, bar,
or live entertainment as otherwise permitted in the zoning district.
BREWPUB: A restaurant or hotel which includes the brewing of beer as an
accessory use. The brewing operation processes water, malt, hops, and yeast
into beer or ale by mashing, cooking, and fermenting. By definition, these
establishments produce no more than ten thousand (10,000) barrels of beer or
ale annually. The area, by definition, used for brewing, including bottling and
kegging, shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the total floor area of
the commercial space.
BROADCASTING TOWER: A structure for the transmission or broadcast of radio,
television, radar, or microwaves which exceeds the maximum height permitted in
the district in which it is located; provided, however, that noncommercial
radio towers not exceeding one hundred feet (100') in height shall not be
considered broadcast towers.
BUFFER: A strip of land established to protect one type of land use from
another incompatible land use or between a land use and a private or public
road. See also definition of Screening.
BUFFER ZONE: An area of land that separates two (2) zoning districts and/or
land uses that acts to soften or mitigate the effects of one use on the other.
BUILDABLE AREA: The sum in square feet of the ground areas occupied by all
buildings and structures on a lot.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4210.gif]
 
BUILDING: Any structure built and maintained for the support, shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind, but shall not include
temporary buildings as defined in "structure, temporary". Operable and licensed
trailers, with wheels, shall not be considered as buildings.
BUILDING CODE: The various codes of the city that regulate construction and
requires building permits, electrical permits, mechanical permits, plumbing
permits, and other permits to do work regulated by the adopted building code of
the city, and other codes adopted by the city that pertain to building
construction.
BUILDING FOOTPRINT: The area of a lot or site included within the surrounding
exterior walls of a building or portion of a building, exclusive of courtyards,
measured on a horizontal plane at finished grade. For residential structures,
it includes residences, attached garages, covered carports, and accessory
structures, but not trellises, patios, and areas of porches, decks and
balconies less than thirty inches (30") from finished grade. In the absence of
surrounding exterior walls, the building footprint shall be the area under the
horizontal projection of the roof.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average ground level at the
front wall of the building to the highest point of the underside of the ceiling
beams for a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean
height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
BUILDING PERMIT: A document issued under the authority of the building services
department, which authorizes the construction or modification of a structure on
a property.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building within which the main or principal use of the
lot or premises is located. See also definition of Use, Principal.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4200.gif]
 
BULK REGULATIONS: An indication of size and setback of buildings and their
location with respect to one another including lot area, lot frontage, lot
coverage, required front yard, required side yard, required rear yard and
building height.
BUSINESS SERVICES: Uses providing services to people, groups, businesses,
dwellings and other buildings. Business services shall include janitorial
services, carpet and upholstery cleaning, painting and decorating, building
maintenance, swimming pool maintenance, security service, graphics/advertising
agency, photocopying/duplication, quick print shops, printing, blueprinting,
sign painting, nonvehicle equipment rental, photographic studios and similar
uses.
CAMPGROUND: A parcel of land intended for the temporary occupancy of tents,
campers, and major recreational vehicles and which primary purpose is
recreational, having open areas that are natural in character.
CAR WASH, FULL SERVICE: A building or section thereof containing facilities for
washing motor vehicles, using production line methods or mechanical devices and
does not include customer self-service.
CAR WASH, INDUSTRIAL: A mechanical facility for the washing, waxing and
vacuuming of heavy trucks and buses.
CAR WASH, SELF-SERVICE: A building or section thereof containing facilities for
washing motor vehicles by providing spaces, water and handheld equipment for
washing of motor vehicles by the customer.
CARPORT: A roofed structure with not more than two (2) enclosed sides used or
intended to be used for vehicle shelter and storage.
CELLAR: See definition of Basement.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
dedicated for such purposes, including columbariums and mausoleums.
CHANNEL: The geographical area within either the natural or artificial banks of
a watercourse or drainageway.
CHILDCARE: The care or supervision of a child by a person other than the
child's parent/guardian or custodian for periods of less than twenty four (24)
hours per day per child on a regular basis. Childcare does not include a
licensed childcare center.
CHILDCARE CENTER, LICENSED: A facility providing childcare or preschool
services for children that requires state of Iowa licensure.
CITY: The city of Dubuque, Iowa.
CITY MANAGER: The Dubuque city manager or any other city staff designated by
the city manager to carry out the implementation and enforcement of this title,
including, but not limited to, the building services department, city
attorney's office, engineering department, and planning services department.
CITY STANDARDS: The design and improvement standards and specifications
established annually by the city manager.
CLUB: An association of persons (whether or not incorporated), religious or
otherwise, for a common purpose, but not including groups which are organized
primarily to render a service carried on as a business for profit.
CLUB, PRIVATE: A nonprofit voluntary association of persons for the promotion
of same purposes or philosophy. The permitted uses of a building owned or
leased by such an association shall include all customary club activities such
as lectures, discussions, meetings, social or recreational events, and similar
activities, and shall also include as an accessory use the sale of food or
beverages, but only where limited to club members and guests and only in
conformance with all state and federal regulations.
CLUSTERED DEVELOPMENT: A development designed to concentrate buildings in
specific areas on a site to allow the remaining land to be used for recreation,
common open space, and the preservation of environmentally sensitive areas.
 
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4212.gif]
 
COLLEGE, SEMINARY, OR UNIVERSITY: A postsecondary institution for higher
learning that grants associate or bachelor degrees and may also have research
facilities and/or professional schools that grant master and doctoral degrees.
This may also include community colleges that grant associate or bachelor
degrees or certificates of completion in business or technical fields.
COMMERCIAL FEEDING OPERATION: See definition of Animal Feeding Operation.
COMMISSION: The zoning advisory commission of the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
COMMON AREA OR PROPERTY: A parcel or parcels of land, together with the
improvements thereon, the use and enjoyment of which are shared by the owners
of the individual building sites in a clustered/mixed use development or
condominium development.
COMMUNITY CENTER: A place, structure, or other facility used for and providing
religious, fraternal, social, and/or recreational programs generally open to
the public and designed to accommodate and serve various segments of the
community.
COMMUNITY GARDEN: A publicly or privately owned parcel where people gather to
grow produce and flowers.
COMPATIBLE LAND USES: A land use which is congruous with, tolerant of, and has
limited adverse effects on existing neighboring uses.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The adopted comprehensive plan for the city of Dubuque,
Iowa.
CONDITIONAL USE: See definition of Use, Conditional.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit issued by the board of adjustment that
authorizes the recipient to make conditional use of property in accordance with
the provisions of chapter 8 of this title and any additional conditions placed
upon, or required by said permit.
CONDOMINIUM: A multiple dwelling as defined herein whereby the title to each
dwelling unit is held in separate ownership, and the real estate on which the
units are located is held in common ownership solely by the owners of the units
with each having an undivided interest in the common real estate.
CONFINEMENT FEEDING OPERATION: An animal feeding operation in which animals are
confined to areas which are totally roofed.
CONFLICTING LAND USE: A land use which transfers negative economic or
environmental effects over neighboring property lines.
CONGREGATE HOUSING: A residential facility for four (4) or more persons age
fifty five (55) years or over, their spouses, or surviving spouses, providing
living and sleeping facilities including meal preparation, dining areas,
laundry services, room cleaning and common recreational, social, and service
facilities for the exclusive use of all residents including resident staff
personnel who occupy a room or unit in the residential facility.
CONSERVATION: The protection and care that prevent destruction or deterioration
of historical or otherwise significant structures, buildings or natural
resources.
CONSERVATION AREA: Environmentally sensitive and valuable lands protected from
any activity that would significantly alter their ecological integrity, balance
or character, except in overriding public interest, including, but not limited
to: wetlands, floodways, floodplains, drainageways, river or stream banks, and
areas of significant biological productivity or uniqueness.
CONSERVATION EASEMENT: An easement granting a right or interest in real
property that is appropriate to retaining land or water areas predominantly in
their natural, scenic, open, or wooded condition and retaining such areas as
suitable habitat for fish, plants, or wildlife, or maintaining existing land
uses or preserving the ability of said land to be used for specific purposes
such as on site wastewater treatment systems.
CONTIGUOUS: See definition of Abut, Abutting.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A retail store containing less than two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet of gross floor area engaged in selling primarily
food, beverages, and other household supplies to customers, and designed to
attract a large volume of stop and go traffic.
CONVENTION CENTER: A facility used for service organization, business, and
professional gatherings, such as conventions, conferences and seminars, and
limited to accommodations for attendees. Accessory uses may include
accommodations for sleeping, eating, and recreation. Such facility is not
designed to be only utilized by the general public for overnight purposes.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Dubuque, Iowa.
CREMATORIUM: A location containing properly installed, certified apparatus
intended for use in the act of cremation.
CUL-DE-SAC: See definition of Street, Cul-De- Sac.
DECK: A flat, floored, roofless structure.
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units per acre of land allowable on a given
tract or parcel of land.
DENTAL/MEDICAL LAB: A facility for the fabrication or manufacture of items such
as dentures or prostheses for use by the dental and medical profession. A
dental or medical lab shall not include clinics or offices where patients are
treated.
DENTAL OR MEDICAL LAB: A facility providing diagnostic or pathological testing
and analysis for the healthcare industry.
DEPARTMENT STORE: A business which is conducted under a single owner's name
wherein a variety of unrelated merchandise and services are housed, enclosed
and exhibited and sold directly to the customer for whom the goods and services
are furnished.
DETENTION BASIN: A normally dry bottom facility for the temporary storage of
stormwater runoff.
DEVELOPMENT: Any change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but
not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations for which necessary permits
may be required.
DISCOUNT STORE: A single or group of stores, offering merchandise for sale at
less than usual retail prices. Merchandise may be discounted due to either
quantity price breaks or merchandise has been discontinued and discounted to
another retailer.
DISTRICT: Any zoning district created for the purpose of regulating specific
uses within a defined area.
DISTRICT ENERGY SYSTEM: A small scale heating, cooling and/or power facility
connected to a building or cluster of buildings.
DOG KENNEL: See definition of Kennel.
DORMITORY: A building intended or used principally for sleeping accommodations
and congregant living where such building is related to a public, educational,
or religious institution.
DOWNZONING: A change in zoning classification of land to a less intensive or
more restrictive district such as from commercial district to residential
district or from a higher density to a lower density residential district.
DRAINAGEWAY: A depression below the surrounding land serving to give direction
to a current of water having a bed and well defined banks; provided, that in
the event of doubt as to whether a depression is a watercourse or drainageway,
it shall be presumed to be a watercourse.
DRIVE-IN FACILITY: An establishment where customers can be served without
leaving the confinement of their vehicle.
DRIVE, PRIVATE: An unplatted, private passageway providing access to a street.
DRIVEWAY: A vehicular access to an off street parking space or loading
facility.
DUPLEX: See definition of Dwelling, Two-Family.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including a manufactured home as defined in state law,
but not including trailers, mobile homes, hotels, motels, motor lodges,
boarding and lodging houses, tourist courts, or tourist homes.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE- FAMILY: A building or buildings designed and used for
occupancy by three (3) or more families, all living independently of each other
and having separate kitchen and toilet facilities for each family.
DWELLING, SINGLE- FAMILY: A building having accommodations for or occupied
exclusively by one family which meet all the following standards:
   A. The home shall have no less than seven hundred (700) square feet of floor
area, above grade, for single story construction;
   B. The home shall have no less than a twenty foot (20') exterior width;
   C. The home shall have a roof material that is or simulates asphalt or wood
shingles, tile, or is a standing seam residential grade metal material, or
rock, or is a green roof; the home shall be placed on a continuous permanent
foundation and have wheels, axles, transporting lights, and removable towing
apparatus removed;
   D. The home shall meet and maintain the same standards that are uniformly
applied to all single-family dwellings in the zoning district; and
   E. The home shall have a permanent foundation, defined as a continuous
perimeter base on which the building rests, to be constructed from either
poured concrete or laid masonry block or brick on a footing to be placed a
minimum of forty two inches (42") below the final ground level.
DWELLING, SINGLE- FAMILY ATTACHED: See definition of Townhouse.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed or used exclusively for the occupancy
of two (2) families living independently of each other and having separate
kitchen and toilet facilities for each family.
DWELLING UNIT: One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a separate,
independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy or lease on a
weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and physically separate from any other rooms
or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and containing
independent cooking, toilet and sleeping facilities.
EASEMENT: An authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for
a specified purpose, of a designated part of his or her property.
ELDER GROUP HOME: A single- family residence that is operated by a person who
is providing room, board, and personal care and may provide health related
services to three (3) through five (5) elders who are not related to the person
providing the service within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity, and
which is staffed by an on site manager twenty four (24) hours per day, seven
(7) days per week, and which is certified by the state as an elder group home
in accordance with state law.
ENCROACHMENT: An advancement or intrusion beyond the lines or limits as
designated and established by this code.
ERECTED: Constructed upon or moved onto a site.
EXISTING AND LAWFUL: The use of a building, structure, or land was in actual
existence, operation, and use, as compared to the use being proposed,
contemplated, applied for, or in the process of being constructed or remodeled.
In addition, the use must have been permitted, authorized, or allowed by law or
any other applicable regulation prior to the enactment of a zoning regulation
when first adopted or permitted, authorized or allowed by the previous zoning
regulation prior to the adoption of an amendment to that zoning regulation.
EXPANSION: The enlargement of a building, structure, or use in volume, size,
area, height, length, width, depth, capacity, ground coverage, or in number.
EXPRESSWAY: A street or road that provides fast and efficient movement of large
volumes of vehicular traffic between areas and does not provide direct access
to property.
EXTERIOR BUILDING COMPONENT: An essential and visible part of the exterior of a
building.
EXTERNAL DESIGN FEATURE: The general arrangement of any portion of a building,
sign, landscaping, or structure and including the kind, color, and texture of
the materials of such portion, and the types of roof, windows, doors, lights,
attached or ground signs, or other fixtures appurtenant to such portions as
will be open to public view from any street, place, or way.
EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION (ETJ): The area beyond the corporate limits, in
which the City has been granted the powers by the State to exercise subdivision
review and is exercising such powers.
EXURBAN: The area that lies beyond the corporate limits and its suburbs.
FACADE: The exterior wall of a building exposed to public view.
FACTORY: A structure or plant within which something is made or manufactured
from raw or partly wrought materials into forms suitable for use.
FAMILY HOME: A community based residential home which is licensed as a
residential care facility or as a child foster care facility under State law,
to provide room and board, personal care, rehabilitation services, and
supervision in a family environment exclusively for not more than eight (8)
developmentally disabled persons and any necessary support personnel. However,
family home does not mean an individual foster family home licensed by the
State.
FARMING: The raising of field crops and livestock, horticulture, forestry,
animal husbandry and similar agricultural activities.
FEDERAL: The Federal government of the United States of America.
FENCE: A structure serving as an enclosure, barrier or boundary.
FLOOR AREA: Whenever the term "floor area" is used in this title as a basis for
requiring off street parking for any structure, it shall be assumed that,
unless otherwise stated, said floor area applies not only to the ground floor
area but also to any additional stories of said structure. All horizontal
dimensions shall be taken from the exterior faces of walls.
FOUNDATION: A base constructed from either poured concrete or laid masonry rock
or brick and placed on a footing located below ground level to a point below
the frost line upon which a building or structure is permanently attached.
FREESTANDING CANOPY: A permanent, freestanding, unenclosed roof structure
designed to provide patrons shelter from the elements.
FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or area in which freight brought by motor truck,
barge, air, or rail is received, assembled or stored and dispatched for routing
and may include storage.
FRONTAGE, BLOCK: That section of a block fronting on a street between two (2)
intersecting streets or other block boundary.
 
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4214.gif]
 
FRONTAGE, LOT: See definition of Lot Frontage.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A street parallel and adjacent to a major arterial or collector,
primarily for service to the abutting properties, and being separated from the
major street by a dividing strip.
FRONTAGE, STREET: See definition of Lot Frontage.
FUNERAL HOME OR MORTUARY: A building used for the storage, preparation, and
display of the deceased and for the performance of rituals and ceremonies
connected therewith before burial or cremation. Crematoriums are permitted as
an accessory use to a funeral home or mortuary.
GARAGE: A structure or building or portion thereof in which one or more
vehicles may be parked or stored. For purposes of this title, garages include
carports.
GARAGE SALE: A residential accessory use whereby items accumulated during the
everyday residential use of a dwelling are sold on premises.
GARDEN, NONCOMMERCIAL: A plot of ground where fruit, herbs, flowers, vegetables
or other plants are grown and for which the owner or operator derives no
compensation on the site.
GAS STATION: A building and/or premises where gasoline, oil and minor auto
accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail and may include an
automated customer activated fuel dispensing system. A gas station is not a
service station. For other services in addition to the sales of gasoline, see
definition of Service Station.
GENERAL MERCHANDISE RETAILER: A business that stocks and sells products and
services to the general public for a cost.
GENERAL MERCHANDISE WHOLESALER: A business that sells general merchandise or
specific types of goods typically at a wholesale or reduced price.
GRADE: The average of the finished ground level along a building wall.
GREEN ROOF: A roof covering of vegetation material, typically consisting of the
following components: an insulation layer, a waterproof membrane to protect the
building from leaks, a root barrier to prevent roots from penetrating the
waterproof membrane; a drainage layer, usually made of lightweight gravel,
clay, or plastic; a geotextile or filter mat that allows water to soak through
but prevents erosion of fine soil particles; a growing medium; plants; and,
sometimes, a wind blanket.
GREEN ROOF, EXTENSIVE: A green roof system that ranges from as little as one to
five inches (5") in soil depth. Extensive green roof systems generally add less
load and require less maintenance than intensive green roof systems.
GREEN ROOF, INTENSIVE: A green roof system that requires a minimum of one foot
(1') of soil depth to create a more traditional rooftop garden, with large
trees, shrubs and other manicured landscapes. They are multilayer
constructions, often including elaborate irrigation and drainage systems,
adding considerable load to a structure, and requiring intensive maintenance.
GREENHOUSE, COMMERCIAL: A building or premises used for growing plants,
preparation of floral arrangements, cold storage of flowers or dry storage of
materials used for agricultural or horticultural purposes, including for sale
on or off the premises.
GREENHOUSE, NONCOMMERCIAL: A building constructed for the cultivation of plants
but not for sale on the premises.
GREENWAY: A parcel or parcels of land, together with the improvements thereon,
dedicated as an easement for access and/or recreation; usually a strip of land
set aside for a walkway, bicycle trail, bridle path, or other similar
accessway.
GROCERY STORE: A retail establishment primarily selling prepackaged and
perishable food as well as convenience and household goods and having a gross
floor area of less than sixty thousand (60,000) square feet.
GROUND COVER: Plant material used in landscaping which remain less than twelve
inches (12") in height at maturity. See also definition of Landscaping.
GROUNDWATER: Water occurring beneath the surface of the ground that fills
available openings in the rock or soil materials such that they may be
considered saturated.
GROUP HOME: Any group of persons not meeting the definition of "family" and
occupying a single dwelling unit living together as a single housekeeping unit,
but not including a boarding or rooming house.
GUESTROOM: A room which is designed to be occupied by one or more guests for
sleeping purposes, having no kitchen facilities, not including dormitories.
HARD SURFACED: Any surface used for movement of vehicular and/or pedestrian
traffic that is designed and paved with either asphalt, concrete, permeable
pavement, or pavers to city standards, but shall not include surfacing
materials such as crushed rock, gravel, cinder, or surface sealants.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Waste products of industrial or chemical process including
finished surplus, used, contaminated or unwanted fertilizer, herbicide,
petroleum products, or other such processed waste material.
HEALTH CLUB: Privately owned for profit facilities such as gymnasiums, athletic
clubs, recreational clubs, reducing salons, and weight control establishments.
HEDGE: A plant or series of plants, shrubs or other landscape material, so
arranged as to form a physical barrier or enclosure.
HISTORIC DISTRICT: An area designated as a "historic district" by ordinance and
which contains within definable geographic boundaries, properties, or
buildings, that may or may not be landmarks but which contribute to the overall
historic character of the designated area.
HOME BASED BUSINESS: Any occupation or activity conducted within a dwelling
unit which is clearly incidental and subordinate to the use of the premises for
dwelling purposes.
HOME IMPROVEMENT CENTER: A facility, of at least sixty thousand (60,000) gross
square feet, engaged in the retail sale of various basic hardware lines, such
as tools, builders' hardware, paint and glass, housewares and household
appliances, garden supplies, and cutlery.
HOMELESS SHELTER: See definition of Temporary Shelter.
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: A private, nonprofit corporation or association of
homeowners of properties in a fixed area, established for the purpose of
owning, operating, and maintaining various common properties and facilities.
HORSE: A large solid hoofed herbivorous mammal (Equus caballus, family Equidae,
the horse family) domesticated since a prehistoric period and used as a beast
of burden, a draft animal, or for riding.
HOSPICE: A medical and residential facility for terminally ill people,
providing inpatient services and support services for families of the residents
and patients.
HOSPITAL: An institution that provides medical, surgical or psychiatric care
and treatment for the sick and injured.
HOSPITAL, ANIMAL: Any establishment or business maintained and operated by a
veterinarian or veterinarians for examination, prophylaxis, surgery, diagnosis
and treatment of diseases or injuries of animals including indoor boarding of
animals under treatment or benefit of the client; provided, said veterinarian
or veterinarians are duly licensed under state law.
HOTEL: A building or portion thereof offering transient lodging accommodations
on a daily rate to the general public and may provide associated services such
as restaurants, meeting rooms, and recreational facilities. For purposes of
this title, "hotel" includes motels and inns.
HOUSEHOLD PET: An animal that is customarily kept for personal use or enjoyment
within the home. A household pet does not include livestock.
HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES: A multi-family structure
designed, maintained and operated for exclusive occupancy by the elderly and/or
persons with disabilities as defined by the regulations of HUD and providing
that one dwelling unit may be used for a resident manager who shall be exempt
from occupancy age limitations or disabilities.
IMPERMEABLE SURFACE: A surface that has been compacted or covered with a layer
of material making the surface highly resistant to infiltration by water, such
as rock, gravel, clay, conventionally surfaced streets, roots, sidewalks,
parking lots, and driveways.
IMPROVEMENT: Any change to land necessary to prepare it for building sites,
including, but not limited to, grading, filling, street paving, curb paving,
sidewalks, walkways, water mains, sewers, drainageways and other public works
and appurtenances.
INDUSTRIAL PARK: A large tract of land that has been planned, developed, and
operated as an integrated facility for a number of individual industrial uses,
with special attention to circulation, parking, utility needs, aesthetics, and
compatibility.
INDUSTRIAL USE: The manufacture, fabrication, processing, reduction,
destruction or storage of any article, substance or commodity, or any other
treatment thereof.
INFILL DEVELOPMENT: The construction of a building or structure on a vacant
parcel located in a predominately built up area.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which:
   A. Does not have a current state license plate, or
   B. Which may or may not have a current state license plate, but is
disassembled or wrecked in part or in whole, or is unable to move under its own
power, or is not equipped as required by state law for operation upon streets
or highways.
   C. A vehicle which is wholly or partially dismantled shall not be considered
inoperable when said vehicle is inside a completely enclosed building.
INSTITUTION: A facility that provides a public service and is operated by a
federal, state, or local government, public or private utility, public or
private school or college, church, hospital, public agency, or tax exempt
organization.
INTENSIFICATION OF USE: Any change, alteration, extension, expansion or
enlargement of a use or use and structure in combination where the off street
parking requirements of this title would be calculated at a higher ratio and/or
would require that additional off street parking spaces be provided.
INTENSITY: The degree to which land is used referring to the levels of
concentration or activity in uses ranging from uses of low intensity being
agricultural and residential to uses of highest intensity being heavy
industrial uses. High intensity uses are normally uses that generate
concentrations of vehicular traffic and daytime population and are less
compatible with lower intensive uses.
IRREGULAR TRACT: A parcel of land that has not been subdivided through adopted
plat procedures, but nonetheless has been assigned a number for identification
purposes.
JUNK: Old or scrap copper, brass, wire, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber debris, waste, or junked, dismantled, wrecked, or parts of, motor
vehicles, motorcycles, or motorized bicycles, or iron, steel, or other old or
scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
KENNEL: An enclosed building or structure for the commercial keeping,
sheltering, training, or selling of dogs, cats, or other small domestic animals
with attached outdoor runs or exercise areas permitted for use by animals. Such
outdoor runs or exercise areas shall not exceed the square footage of the
attached, enclosed building or structure.
LANDFILL: A disposal site employing a method of disposing solid wastes in a
manner that minimizes environmental hazards in accordance with state and
federal requirements.
LANDSCAPE: Plant materials, topography, and other natural physical elements
combined in relation to one another and to manmade structures.
LANDSCAPE DESIGN AND INSTALLATION: A business engaged in the design,
installation, and maintenance of commercial and residential landscapes, which
may include an office and indoor or outdoor storage areas for materials and
equipment
LANDSCAPING: The installation of vegetation, hardscape and/or Xeriscaping, in
conformity with the requirements of this title and the continued maintenance
thereof.
LAUNDROMAT: An establishment providing for the self-service washing, drying,
and cleaning of clothes or linens.
LIFE CARE FACILITY: A facility for the transitional residency of the elderly
and/or disabled persons, progressing from independent living to congregate
apartment living where residents share common meals and culminating in full
health and continuing care nursing home facility. See also definition of
Housing For The Elderly And Persons With Disabilities.
LIVE/WORK SPACE: Buildings or spaces within buildings that combine residential
living space with an integrated work space for use by one or more residents.
LIVESTOCK: Animals associated with agricultural operation, commonly kept or
raised as a part of an agricultural operation including, but not limited to,
horses, cattle, sheep, swine, goats, ducks, chickens and turkeys.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space or berth on the same lot with a main
building, or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of
commercial vehicles while loading or unloading, and which abuts a street,
alley, or other appropriate means of ingress and egress.
LOT: A distinct parcel, tract or portion of a subdivision, the location,
dimensions, and boundaries of which are determined by a plat.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4217.gif]
 
LOT AREA: The total horizontal area included within the boundaries of the lot
lines of a lot.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4230.gif]
 
LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
LOT COVERAGE: That portion of a lot covered by principal and accessory uses
and/or buildings expressed as a percentage of the lot area.
LOT DEPTH: The average distance from the front property line to the rear
property line, measured in the general direction of the side property lines of
the lot.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) streets, as
distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT, FLAG: A lot with frontage and access provided to the bulk of the lot by
means of a narrow corridor.
LOT FRONTAGE: All sides of a lot abutting a street and measured along the front
property line as it abuts the street right of way or roadway easement line.
!DEFEND!
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4214.gif]
 
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage on a
street.
LOT LINE: The property line bounding a lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The property line abutting a street right of way or roadway
easement line.
LOT LINE, REAR: A lot line not abutting a street which is opposite and
generally most distant from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line not a front lot line or rear lot line.
LOT, NONCONFORM ING: A lot having less area or dimension than that required in
the district in which it is located and which was lawfully created prior to the
zoning thereof whereby the larger area or dimension requirements were
established, or any lot, other than one shown on a plat recorded in the office
of the county recorder, which does not abut a public road or public road right
of way and which was lawfully created prior to the effective date hereof.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of
the county recorder, or lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description to which has been so recorded.
LOT, THROUGH: See definition of Lot, Double Frontage.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side property lines measured at
the front property line as it abuts the street or along the street right of way
line on unplatted streets, except that on cul-de- sacs, the lot width shall be
measured at the required front yard setback line.
LOT, ZONING: A zoning lot is a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to
meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to provide
such yards and other open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have
frontage on an improved public street, or on the approved private street, and
may consist of:
   A. A single lot of record.
   B. A portion of a lot of record.
   C. A combination of complete lots of record and portions of lots of record,
or of portions of lots of record.
   D. A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in no case
of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created which
does not meet the requirements of this title.
LUMINAIRE, CUTOFF: A luminaire with elements, reflectors, or refractor angles
that direct and cut off the light at a cutoff angle less than seventy two
degrees (72°).
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4224.gif]
 
MANUFACTURED HOME: A factory built structure built under the authority of 42
USC section 5403, that is required by federal law to display a seal required by
HUD, and was constructed on or after June 15, 1976.
MANUFACTURING, PRIMARY: The initial manufacture, compounding, and processing of
raw or unprocessed materials, or the manufacture of component parts that
require additional processing, fabrication, or assembly prior to use by the
consumer.
MANUFACTURING, SECONDARY: The mechanical or chemical transformation of
materials or substances into new products, including the assembling of
component parts, and the blending of materials, such as lubricating oils,
plastics, resins, or liquors, for final use or consumption.
MATERNITY GROUP HOME: A community-based residential home providing room and
board, supervision, training, education, and personal support in a family
environment for up to four (4) women, who are either pregnant or who have given
birth within the last twenty-four (24) months, and their child(ren). Such a
site may also include both onsite overnight room accommodations and office
space for staff who provide and/or administrate such a service.
MICROBREWERY: See definition of Brewery, Micro.
MINISTORAGE OR MINIWAREHOUSE: A building or group of buildings containing
individual, compartmentalized, and controlled access stalls or lockers for
storage.
MIXED USE: Properties where various uses, such as office, commercial,
institutional, and/or residential, are combined in a single building or on a
single site in an integrated development project with significant functional
interrelationships and a coherent physical design.
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle without motive power used or so manufactured or
constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets
and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed as will permit the
vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or more persons; but
shall also include any such vehicle with motive power not registered as a motor
vehicle in Iowa. A mobile home is factory built housing built on a chassis. A
mobile home shall not be construed to be a travel trailer or other form of
recreational vehicle. A mobile home shall be construed to remain a mobile home,
subject to all regulations applying thereto, whether or not wheels, axles,
hitch, or other appurtenances of mobility are removed and regardless of the
nature of the foundation provided. However, certain mobile homes may be
classified as "manufactured homes". Nothing in this title shall be construed as
permitting a mobile home in other than an approved mobile home park, unless
such mobile home is classified as a manufactured home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel of land under single ownership that has been planned
and improved for the placement of mobile housing used or to be used for
dwelling purposes and where mobile home spaces are not offered for sale or
sold. The term "mobile home park" does not include sales lots on which new or
used mobile homes are parked for the purposes of storage, inspection, or sale.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: Any area, piece, parcel, tract or plot of ground
subdivided and used or intended to be used for the purpose of selling lots for
occupancy by mobile homes.
MODULAR HOME: A factory built structure which is to be used as a place of human
habitation, is constructed to comply with the Iowa state building code for
modular factory built structures, as adopted and displays a seal issued by the
Iowa state building code commissioner.
MORATORIUM: A temporary halting of specific development activities for a
specific time frame.
MOTEL: See definition of Hotel.
MUSEUM: An institution devoted to the procurement, care, study, and display of
objects of lasting interest and value.
NIGHTCLUB: A commercial establishment dispensing beverages for consumption on
the premises and in which dancing is permitted or entertainment is provided,
except when defined as adult entertainment. See also definition of Bar.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building or portion thereof which was lawful when
established but which does not conform to subsequently established zoning or
zoning regulations.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use lawful when established but which does not conform to
subsequently established zoning or zoning regulations.
NONFARM BUILDINGS: All buildings except those buildings utilized for
agricultural purposes on a farm.
NURSERY: The use of a premises for the propagation, cultivation, and growth of
trees, shrubs, plants, vines, and the like from seed or stock, and the sale
thereof, and including the sale of trees, shrubs, plants, vines, and the like
purchased elsewhere and transplanted into the soil of the premises. In
connection with the sale of plants, such fungicides, insecticides, chemicals,
peat moss, humus, mulches, and fertilizers as are intended to be used in
preserving the life and health of the plants may be sold.
NURSING OR CONVALESCENT HOME: An establishment providing full time housing and
care for the aged or physically infirm, and not involving surgery, obstetrical
services, or other major medical services more commonly provided in hospitals
or clinics. Such establishment may involve usual convalescent or chronic care
including bedside nursing care, administration of medicines or special diets,
application of bandages or dressings, and similar procedures.
OFFICE, GENERAL: A business establishment, or portion thereof, where
consulting, recordkeeping, bookkeeping and clerical work are performed, but not
to include medical offices or clinics.
OFFICE, MEDICAL: A business establishment, or portion thereof, furnishing
medical, surgical or other service to individuals, including the offices of
physicians, dentists, and other health practitioners, accessory medical and
dental labs, outpatient care facilities, blood banks, and oxygen and
miscellaneous types of medical supplies and services.
OFFICE PARK: A large tract of land that has been planned, developed, and
operated as an integrated facility for a number of separate office buildings
and supporting ancillary uses with special attention to circulation, parking,
utility needs, aesthetics, and compatibility.
OFFICIAL MAP: See definition of Zoning Map, Official.
OPEN FEEDLOT OPERATION: An unroofed or partially roofed animal feeding
operation if crop, vegetation, or forage growth or residue is not maintained as
part of the animal feeding operation during the period that animals are
confined in the animal feeding operation.
OPEN SPACE: That part of a lot or parcel not devoted to buildings, structures,
parking or loading areas, driveways or any principal or accessory use.
OPEN SPACE, COMMON: A separate and distinct area set aside as open space within
or related to a development, and not on individually owned lots or dedicated
for public use, but which is designed and intended for the common use or
enjoyment of the residents of the development. Rights of way, private streets,
driveways, parking lots or other surfaces designed or intended for vehicular
use or required yards shall not be included as common open space.
OPEN SPACE, USABLE: An area of land or water or combination of land and water
which may include complementary structures and improvements within the site,
excluding space devoted to parking, designed and intended for common use and
enjoyment.
OUTLET STORE: A commercial development that consists mostly of manufacturers'
outlet stores selling their own brands at a discounted price. This definition
includes all forms of centers, such as strip style, enclosed mall style, and
village clustered style centers.
OVERLAY DISTRICT: A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district.
OWNER: One or more persons, including corporations, who have title to the
property, building or structure in question.
PARCEL: A lot or a contiguous group of lots in single ownership or under single
control, which may be considered as a unit for purposes of development.
PARK: Any public or private land available for recreational, educational,
cultural, or aesthetic use.
PARKING LOT, OFF- PREMISE: A hard-surfaced area not located in the public
rights- of-way, is designated for the parking of vehicles, and which meets all
of the following standards:
   A.   The off-premise parking lot shall be incidental and subordinate to a
permitted use and located on a lot within three hundred feet (300') of the
principal use it serves;
   B.   The off-premise parking lot shall be owned and maintained by the
property owner of the principal use it serves;
   C.   No vehicle or outside storage of any kind shall be permitted in, or on,
the off-premise parking lot; and
   D.   A site plan shall be reviewed and approved prior to the installation of
an off-premise parking lot.
PARKING, OFF STREET: All hard surfaced areas other than public rights of way
for the purpose of parking vehicles.
PARKING, ON STREET: The space designated for parking a vehicle within the paved
portion of the street right of way.
PARKING SPACE: A paved area, other than a street or alley, designed for the
parking of a vehicle.
PARKING STRUCTURE: A structure or portion thereof composed of one or more
levels or floors used exclusively for the parking of vehicles.
PARKWAY: The area, excluding the sidewalk, if any, between the property line
and the curb, or in the absence of a curb, between the property line and the
nearest edge of the street paving.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4226.gif]
 
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE: A financial guarantee to ensure that all improvements,
facilities, or work required by this title will be completed in compliance with
these regulations as well as with approved plans and specifications of a
development.
PERMEABLE PAVEMENT: A hard surfaced pavement system with traditional strength
characteristics, but which allows rainfall to percolate through it rather than
running off. For purposes of this title this does not include gravel, cinders,
crushed rock or seal coat.
PERMITTED USE: See definition of Use, Permitted.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, government or
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership
or association, or any other legal entity.
PET DAYCARE: An establishment where a household pet can be left for a period of
time less than twenty four (24) hours, where kenneling does not occur.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A planning process and district for the purpose
of providing for a unique and flexible arrangement of residential, business, or
industrial uses in accordance with an approved conceptual plan.
PLAT: A map showing the location, boundaries, and legal description of
individual properties prepared by a licensed land surveyor.
PLAT OF SURVEY: A graphical representation of a survey of one or more parcels
of land, including a complete and accurate description of each parcel within
the plat, prepared by a licensed land surveyor.
POLICY: A statement or document of the city, such as the comprehensive plan,
that forms the basis for enacting legislation or making decisions.
PONY: A small horse, especially one of any of several breeds of very small
stocky animals.
PREMISES: A tract of land, consisting of one lot or irregular tract, or more
than one lot or irregular tract, provided such lots or tracts are under common
ownership, contiguous, and used as a single tract. A building or land within a
prescribed area.
PRESCHOOL: See definition of Childcare Center, Licensed.
PRINCIPAL USE: See definition of Use, Principal. See also definition of
Building, Principal.
PROCESSING OR ASSEMBLY: The preparation of material for efficient shipment, or
to an end user's specifications, by such means as baling, briquetting,
compacting, flattening, grinding, crushing, mechanical sorting, shredding,
cleaning, and remanufacturing.
PROHIBITED USE: See definition of Use, Prohibited.
PROPERTY LINE: The legal, platted boundary of a lot or parcel of land.
PUBLIC FACILITY: Any building, location, or structure, owned by a public entity
such as a library, fire station, school, park, and other similar facilities and
uses.
PUBLIC USE: A specified activity or area that either through actual public
ownership or through dedication of easements allows the general public access
and use.
PUBLIC UTILITY: All or part of a waterworks, gasworks, sanitary sewage system,
stormwater drainage system, electric light and power plant and system, heating
plant, cable communication or television system, telephone or
telecommunications systems or services offered separately or combined with any
system or service specified herein or authorized by other state law, any of
which may be owned by a city, including all land, easements, rights of way,
fixtures, equipment, accessories, improvements, appurtenances, and other
property necessary or useful for the operation of the utility.
PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT: A portion of a lot or block in which the city and all
public utilities enfranchised by the city have a rite of passage and/or a right
to install and maintain pipes, wires, poles, conduits, and other equipment
necessary to carry out public or quasi-public services.
QUARRY: An excavation activity designed to mine, extract, or remove specific
natural resources for commercial purposes. This does not include underground
mining and extraction.
RACETRACK: A measured course where animals or machines are entered in
competitions against one another or against time.
RAILROAD: The land use including the right of way abutting railroad properties
occupied by uses pertinent to the railroad operation and maintenance, but not
including properties owned by the railroad and leased for use by others.
RECORDER: The Dubuque County recorder.
RECREATIONAL FACILITY: Indoor and outdoor facilities for the use by the public
for passive and active recreation including tennis, handball, racquetball,
basketball, track and field, jogging, baseball, soccer, skating, swimming, or
golf. This shall include country clubs and athletic clubs, but not facilities
accessory to a private residence used only by the owner and guests, nor arenas
or stadiums used primarily for spectators to watch athletic events.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): A vehicular unit designed for recreational camping
or travel use under its own power or designed to be mounted on or drawn by a
motor vehicle. Recreational vehicle includes motor home, truck camper, travel
trailer, camping trailer, and fifth wheel.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A tract of land upon which two (2) or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established, or maintained for
occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living
quarters for recreation or vacation purposes by campers, vacationers, or
travelers.
REDEVELOPMENT: The act of rehabilitation or demolition of existing buildings
and/or land area irrespective of whether a change occurs in land use.
REGISTERED CHILD DEVELOPMENT HOME: A facility providing childcare or preschool
services for children that requires State of Iowa registration. Registered
child development home does not include a licensed childcare center.
RESIDENCE: A building used, designed, or intended to be used as a home or
dwelling place for one or more families.
RESOURCE RECOVERY/ RECYCLING CENTER: Indoor facilities for obtaining useful
materials or energy from solid waste or recycled materials. Materials can be
reused for their original purpose, packaged and shipped elsewhere, reprocessed
for a different purpose or converted into energy, not to include a biofuels
plant or a salvage yard.
RESTAURANT, CARRYOUT: Any business establishment or portion thereof where food
is prepared for sale for consumption off the premises and/or served in
disposable containers or wrappers, and which may involve seating on the
premises of a limited nature as an accessory use to the restaurant, as defined
in this section and not serving beer, wine or alcoholic beverages.
RESTAURANT, DRIVE- IN: Any business establishment or portion thereof equipped
with a drive-through service where food is prepared for sale for consumption on
or off the premises and/or served in disposable containers or wrappers and not
serving beer, wine or alcoholic beverages.
RESTAURANT, INDOOR: Any business establishment or portion thereof where food is
prepared for sale for consumption on the premises, including all sit down
restaurants, where food and beverage are served in nondisposable containers and
which may involve carryout service and the serving of beer, wine and alcoholic
beverages on the premises of a limited nature as an accessory use to the
restaurant, as defined in this section.
RETAIL COMMERCIAL: A stand alone building with a large parking lot or a part of
a larger commercial center, with a gross floor area of sixty thousand (60,000)
square feet or more, including, but not limited to, department store,
supermarket, wholesale club operation, discount store, general merchandise
retailer, specialized product store (i.e., electronics, building materials or
pet supplies), outlet store, general merchandise wholesaler open to the public,
warehouse club, and similar uses.
RETAIL SALES OR SERVICE: Establishments less than sixty thousand (60,000)
square feet engaged in selling or renting goods or merchandise to the general
public for personal or household consumption and/or services in conjunction or
separate to the sale of such goods. Retail sales/service establishments shall
not include eating and drinking places, uses defined as adult entertainment,
vehicle sales or service, or wholesale, processing or manufacturing operations
with an accessory retail outlet on the premises.
RETENTION BASIN: A facility for the temporary storage of stormwater with a
permanent water surface.
REZONING: An amendment to or change in the official zoning map.
RIGHT OF WAY (ROW): An area or strip of land, either public or private, on
which an irrevocable rite of passage has been dedicated, recorded, or otherwise
legally established for the use of vehicles, utilities and/or pedestrians.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4228.gif]
 
ROAD: See definition of Street.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding Or Rooming House.
SALVAGE YARD: Any lot, land parcel, building, or structure or part thereof for
storage, collection, purchase, sale, salvage, or disposal including, but not
limited to: machinery, appliances, farm equipment, and including motor
vehicles, parts and equipment that are a result of the dismantling or wrecking,
or keeping of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap materials.
SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA: A parabolic antenna incorporating a reflective surface
that is solid, open mesh, or bar configured and is in the shape of a shallow
dish, or cone and used to transmit and/or receive radio or electromagnetic
waves.
SCALE: Proportional relationship of the size of parts to one another and to the
human figure.
SCENIC EASEMENT: An easement for the purpose of limiting land development in
order to preserve a view or scenic area.
SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY, JUNIOR HIGH, OR SENIOR HIGH: Public and other nonprofit
institutions conducting regular academic instruction at kindergarten,
elementary, and secondary levels. Such institutions shall offer general
academic instruction equivalent to the standards prescribed by state law.
SCHOOL OR NURSERY: See definition of Childcare Center, Licensed.
SCREENING: A structure of planting that conceals from view from public ways the
area behind such structure or planting.
SELECTIVE CLEARING: The careful and planned removal of trees, shrubs, and
plants using specific standards and protection measures.
SELF-SERVICE STATION: Establishment where motor fuels are stored and dispensed
into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles by persons other than the service station
attendant and may include facilities available for the sale of other retail
products.
SEPARATE OWNERSHIP: Ownership of a parcel of land by a person who does not own
any of the land abutting such parcel.
SERVICE STATION: A building and premises where the primary use is the supply
and dispensing at retail of motor fuels, lubricants, batteries, tires, and
motor vehicle accessories and where light maintenance activities such as engine
tune ups, lubrications, and washing may be conducted, but not including heavy
maintenance and repair such as engine overhauls, painting, and body repair.
SETBACK: The distance required between a property line or roadway easement line
and the buildable area on a lot. !DEFEND!
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4232.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4234.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4236.gif]
 
SETBACK, FRONT: A line which defines the required minimum distance between a
building or structure and the right of way or roadway easement line. The front
setback line shall be parallel with the right of way line or roadway easement
line. Corner lots and double frontage lots shall have a front setback along
both street frontages.
SETBACK LINE, BUILDING: The minimum distance as prescribed by this title
between any property line or roadway easement line and the closest point of the
building line or face of any building or structure related thereto.
SETBACK, REAR: A line which defines the required minimum distance between a
building or structure and the property line opposite the right of way line or
roadway easement line. The rear setback line shall be parallel with the rear
property line except for corner lots and double frontage lots.
SETBACK, SIDE: A line which defines the required minimum distance between a
building or structure and an interior property line, extending between the
front and rear setback lines. The side setback line shall be parallel with the
nearest interior property line. For purposes of accessory buildings and
structures, the side setback shall be extended to the rear property line.
SHOPPING CENTER: A group of commercial establishments planned, constructed, and
managed as a total entity with customer and employee parking provided on site,
provisions for goods delivery that is separated from customer access, aesthetic
considerations, and protection from the elements.
SHOPPING CENTER, NEIGHBORHOOD: A group of commercial establishments with off
street parking on the property that are generally planned and developed as an
architectural unit, with a primary trade area of the neighborhood(s) in which
it is located.
SHOPPING CENTER, REGIONAL: A group of commercial establishments with off street
parking on the property that are planned and developed as an architectural
unit, a centrally managed facility requiring a highway or arterial location for
their most beneficial operation, the market area of which includes the
metropolitan area.
SHRUB: A multistemmed woody plant other than a tree.
SIDEWALK CAFÉ: An area adjacent to a street level eating or drinking
establishment located within the public pedestrian walkway and used exclusively
for dining, drinking, and pedestrian circulation. The area may be separated
from the public sidewalk by railings, fencing, or landscaping or a combination
thereof to maintain the required public sidewalk access.
SIGHT TRIANGLE: See definition of Visibility Triangle.
SIMILAR USE: The use of land, buildings, or structures of like kind or general
nature with other uses within a zoning district as related to bulk, intensity
of use, traffic generation and congestion, function, public services
requirements, aesthetics or other similarities.
SIMPLE DIVISION: Any division of land in which no new streets, public or
private, are proposed, which does not require the construction of any public
improvements, and which creates fewer than three (3) lots.
SITE PLAN: A plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and with complete
dimensioning, the boundaries of a site and the location of all buildings,
structures, uses, drives, parking, drainage, utilities, landscape features, and
other principal site development improvements for a specific parcel of land.
SKATEBOARD PIPE: A structure which is shaped into a half circle or oval that is
designed and principally intended to permit persons on skateboards to move
continuously from one side to the other.
SKATEBOARD RAMP: A structure with an upward inclined surface, essentially one
of the sides of a pipe, which are designed and principally intended to permit
persons on skateboards to move from horizontal to vertical and back to
horizontal.
SKATEPARK: A recreational facility containing ramps and other obstacle courses
and devices for use with skateboards and skates.
SPECIALIZED PRODUCT STORE: A retail commercial use that typically merchandises
products of a similar nature such as, but not limited to, electronics, jewelry,
greeting cards.
SPOT ZONING: The zoning of a small land area for a use which differs measurably
from the zoned land use surrounding this area. Land may not merely be so zoned
in the interest of an individual or small group, but must be in the general
public interest.
STADIUM: A large, usually open structure for sports events with tiered seating
for spectators.
STATE: The state of Iowa.
STORAGE: The keeping, in a roofed or unroofed area, of any goods, material,
merchandise, or vehicles.
STORM DRAIN: Conduit that carries natural storm and surface water drainage but
not sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
STORMWATER DETENTION: Any storm drainage technique that retards or detains
runoff, such as a detention or retention basin, parking lot storage, rooftop
storage, porous pavement, or any combination thereof. Said detention shall be
designed by a licensed professional engineer and approved by the city.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT: The collecting, conveyance, channeling, holding,
retaining, detaining, infiltrating, diverting, treating, or filtering of
surface water, or groundwater, and/or runoff, together with applicable
managerial (nonstructural) measures.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: Surplus surface water generated by rainfall that does not
seep into the earth but flows over land.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a usable or unused under floor space is more than six feet (6')
above "grade" as defined herein for more than fifty percent (50%) of the total
perimeter or is more than twelve feet (12') above "grade" as defined herein at
any point, such usable or unused under floor space shall be considered as a
story.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4238.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4204.gif]
 
STORY, FIRST: The lowest story in a building which qualifies as a "story", as
defined herein, except that a floor level in a building having only one floor
level shall be classified as a first story, provided such floor level is not
more than four feet (4') below "grade", as defined herein, for more than fifty
percent (50%) of the total perimeter, or more than eight feet (8') below
"grade", as defined herein, at any point.
STREET: A public thoroughfare, right of way or roadway easement dedicated,
deeded, or recorded for use as such, other than an alley, which affords the
principal means of access to abutting property including avenue, place, way,
drive, lane, boulevard, highway, road and any other thoroughfare except as
excluded in this title.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A street primarily intended to carry traffic from one part of
the city to another and secondarily intended to provide access to abutting
properties.
STREET CENTERLINE: The centerline of a street right of way as established by
official surveys.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street primarily intended to gather traffic from a
subdivision and carry it to an arterial street, but also intended to provide
direct access to abutting properties.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A local street terminating in a turnaround and having only
one outlet.
STREET FRONTAGE: See definition of Frontage, Street.
STREET HARDWARE: Manmade objects other than buildings that are part of the
streetscape; examples include: lampposts, utility poles, traffic signs,
benches, litter containers, planting containers, letter boxes, and fire
hydrants.
STREET, LOCAL: A street intended to provide direct access to abutting
properties.
STREET, PRIVATE: A platted and recorded lot of common ownership, usually by a
property owner association, not dedicated to the city, giving access to the
other lots of the subdivision and to the adjoining street pattern.
STREET, PUBLIC: A dedicated, platted, recorded and accepted passageway for
public travel.
STREETSCAPE: The scene as may be observed along a public street or way composed
of natural and manmade components, including buildings, paving, plantings,
street hardware, and miscellaneous structures.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a building, such
as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders, or any complete rebuilding of the
roof or the exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or built aboveground, any edifice or building
of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner, which requires location on the ground
or is attached to something having a location on the ground, including, but not
limited to, buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences, billboards, poster panels,
aboveground storage tanks, and similar uses.
STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY: A building or structure erected for a onetime temporary
use, lacking a permanent foundation, connections to water and sewer, and
generally having open walls, distinct from a permanent structure which must
meet adopted building codes.
SUBDIVISION: A tract of land divided into three (3) or more lots.
SUBDIVISION PLAT: A graphical representation of the subdivision of land,
prepared by a licensed land surveyor, having a number or letter designation for
each lot within the plat and a succinct name or title that is unique.
SUPERMARKET: A retail food establishment primarily selling prepackaged and
perishable food as well as convenience and household goods and having a gross
floor area of sixty thousand (60,000) square feet or more.
SWALE: See definition of Drainageway.
TANNING STUDIO: Any business that uses artificial lighting systems to produce a
tan on an individual's body. These facilities may be either a stand alone
business or as an accessory use in spas, gymnasiums, athletic clubs, health
clubs, and styling salons.
TATTOO PARLOR AND BODY PIERCING STUDIO: An establishment whose principal
business activity is the practice of tattooing and/or piercing the body of
paying customers.
TAVERN: See definition of Bar.
TEMPORARY SHELTER: A structure used as a day facility or temporary dwelling for
abuse victims, transient or homeless individuals, but not including orphanages
or foster homes, operated by a nonprofit religious, educational, or
philanthropic institution.
TEMPORARY USE: See definition of Use, Temporary.
TERRACE: Raised earthen embankment with the top leveled. A terrace may be
supported by a retaining wall.
THEATER: A building or structure used for dramatic, operatic, motion pictures,
or other performance, for admission to which entrance money is received. This
use is not included with any type of adult establishment.
THEME PARK: See definition of Amusement Park.
TOUR HOME: A residence usually of major local or regional historical or
architectural interest visited on a regularly scheduled basis by an
organization or tour company for a fee.
TOURIST HOME: A private home which is rented to tourists or travelers.
TOWER: A structure situated on a site that is intended for transmitting or
receiving television, radio, or telephone communications. See also definition
of Antenna.
TOWNHOUSE: A one-family dwelling unit, with a private entrance in a group of
three (3) or more units, which part of a structure whose dwelling units are
attached horizontally in a linear arrangement, and having a totally exposed
front and at least one other building wall exposed to allow for access, light,
and ventilation.
TRANSIT FACILITY: A small scale covered waiting area for buses, taxis, and mass
transit stops, typically with a separate loading lane.
TREE: Any self-supporting woody plant growing upon the earth that usually
provides one main trunk and produces a more or less distinct and elevated head
with many branches.
TREE COVER: An area directly beneath the crown and within the drip line of the
tree.
UPZONING: A change in zoning classification of land to a more intensive or less
restrictive district such as from residential district to commercial district
or from a single-family residential district to a multiple-family residential
district.
USE: The purpose or activity for which land or buildings are designed,
arranged, or intended or for which land or buildings are occupied or
maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: A use incidental, related, appropriate and clearly subordinate
to the main use of the lot or building, which accessory use does not alter the
principal use of the subject lot or affect other properties in the district.
USE, CONDITIONAL: A use where allowed by the district regulations, that would
not be appropriate generally throughout the zoning district without
restrictions, but which, if controlled as to number, size, area, location,
relationship to the neighborhood or other minimal protective characteristics
would not be detrimental to the public health, safety, and general welfare.
USE, PERMITTED: Any land use allowed without condition within a zoning
district.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or structure, as distinguished from an
accessory use. See also definition of Building, Principal.
USE, PROHIBITED: Any use of land, other than nonconforming, which is not listed
as a permitted use or conditional use within a zoning district.
USE, TEMPORARY: Impermanent uses of an occasional nature not exceeding six (6)
months' maximum duration. Temporary uses shall not involve the use of permanent
structures, permanent signs or portable signs. Uses of a seasonal nature that
recur periodically on a regular basis on the same site and reoccupy the same
permanent building shall not be considered temporary uses.
UTILITY EASEMENT: See definition of Easement.
UTILITY SERVICE: Any device, including wire, pipe, and conduit, which carries
gas, water, electricity, oil, wastewater and communications into a building or
development.
VARIANCE: A relief from or variation from the strict application of the bulk
regulations, as applied to a specific piece of property, which may be granted
by the ZBA according to the provisions of this title.
VEHICLE: A vehicle shall be broadly interpreted to mean any implement of
conveyance designed or used for the transportation of people or materials on
land or water, including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, bicycles,
motorcycles, snowmobiles, boats, trailers, campers, wagons, etc.
VEHICLE BODY SHOP: A facility which provides vehicle collision repair services,
including body frame straightening, replacement of damaged parts, and painting,
but does not include mechanical engine or power train repair.
VEHICLE SALES: The storage and display for the retail or wholesale sale,
rental, or lease of more than two (2) new or used vehicles, and which may
include facilities for the incidental repair or bodywork of vehicles.
VEHICLE SERVICE OR REPAIR: A facility providing major vehicle repair such as
tire capping, bodywork, frame straightening, welding, painting, storage of
nonoperable vehicles and the sale of motor fuels, tires and lubricants for
retail sale directly to the motorist consumer. As an accessory use, the selling
of vehicles with salvage titles may occur on a limited basis provided they are
stored in a building. Vehicles with salvage titles may be stored in the rear
yard of the property provided the vehicles are not stacked on top of other
vehicles and materials and are permanently screened from view to a height of at
least six feet (6') with at least fifty percent (50%) opacity. The sale of used
parts other than as an incidental part of the business is prohibited.
VISIBILITY TRIANGLE: A triangular shaped portion of a lot located at a street,
alley or driveway intersection in which nothing can be placed, planted or
constructed that will materially impede vision from within vehicles between a
height of two feet (2') and eight feet (8'). The visibility triangle is formed
by lines that join points placed ten feet (10') from the property corner along
both frontages.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4240.gif]
 
WAREHOUSE:                  A building used primarily for the storage of goods
                            and materials.
                            An establishment or place of business primarily
                            engaged in selling and/or distributing merchandise
                            to retailers; to industrial, commercial,
WAREHOUSE CLUB OPERATION:   institutional, or professional business users, or
                            to other wholesalers; or acting as agents or
                            brokers and buying merchandise for, or selling
                            merchandise to, such individuals or companies. This
                            is not considered a general commercial use.
WAREHOUSE, DISTRIBUTION:    Use engaged in storage, wholesale, and distribution
                            of manufactured products, supplies, and equipment.
                            Those areas that are inundated or saturated by
                            surface or ground water at a frequency and duration
                            sufficient to support, and that under normal
WETLAND:                    circumstances do support, a prevalence of
                            vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated
                            soil conditions. Wetlands may include, but are not
                            limited to, swamps, marshes, and bogs.
                            A retail store that sells a limited assortment of
WHOLESALE CLUB:             merchandise to customers who are "members" of the
                            club.
                            An establishment for the on premises sales of goods
WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT:    primarily to customers engaged in the business of
                            reselling the goods.
                            A use primarily engaged in selling merchandise to
                            retailers; to industrial, commercial,
                            institutional, farm or professional business users;
                            or to other wholesalers; or acting as agents or
                            brokers in buying merchandise for or selling
                            merchandise to such persons or companies. The
                            principal types of establishments included are:
                            merchant wholesalers; sales branches and sales
                            offices (but not retail stores) maintained by
                            manufacturing enterprises apart from their plants
                            for the purpose of marketing their products;
                            agents, merchandise or commodity brokers, and
WHOLESALE TRADE:            commission merchants; petroleum bulk storage,
                            assemblers, buyers, and associations engaged in
                            cooperative marketing of farm products. The chief
                            functions of uses in wholesale trade are selling
                            goods to trading establishments, or to industrial,
                            commercial, institutional, farm and professional;
                            and bringing buyer and seller together. In addition
                            to selling, functions frequently performed by
                            wholesale establishments include maintaining
                            inventories of goods; extending credit; physically
                            assembling, sorting and grading goods in large
                            lots, breaking bulk and redistribution in smaller
                            lots; delivery; refrigeration; and various types of
                            promotion such as advertising and label designing.
WILDLIFE CONSERVATION AREA: An area dedicated to conservation of wildlife and
                            wildlife habitat.
                            An opening in the wall of a building for the
                            transmission of air or light, or both, commonly
WINDOW:                     fitted with a frame in which are set movable or
                            nonmovable sashes containing panes of glass or
                            plastic, whether transparent or translucent, and is
                            viewable from the interior of the building.
                            Landscaping characterized by the use of vegetation
XERISCAPING:                that is drought tolerant or low water use in
                            character.
                            A required open space which is unoccupied and
YARD:                       unobstructed by any structure or portion thereof
                            from the natural ground level to the sky, except as
                            otherwise provided in this title.
                            The area between a principal building and the right
YARD, FRONT:                of way line or roadway easement line, and extending
                            between interior property lines.
                            The area between a principal building and the
                            property line opposite the right of way line or
YARD, REAR:                 roadway easement line, and extending between
                            interior property lines. In the case of corner lots
                            and double frontage lots, there will be no rear
                            yards, but only front and side yards.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4243.gif]
 
 
YARD, REQUIRED:       See definition of setback.
                      The area between a principal building and an interior
                      property, and extending between the front yard and rear
YARD, SIDE:           yard. In the case of double frontage lots, side yards
                      shall extend between the front yards. In the case of
                      corner lots, yards remaining after front yards have been
                      established shall be considered side yards.
                      A required yard other than the required front yard so
                      oriented that neither the terms "side yard" nor "rear
YARD, SPECIAL:        yard" clearly apply. In such cases the City Planner shall
                      determine, based on topography, location, orientation and
                      pattern of adjacent structures and development which yard
                      requirement is more appropriate.
ZONING DISTRICT:      A section of the City in which zoning regulations and
                      standards are uniform.
                      Map delineating the boundaries of zoning districts which,
                      along with the zoning text, is officially adopted by the
                      Dubuque City Council and on file in the Office of the
ZONING MAP, OFFICIAL: Planning Services Department.  (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009;
                      amd. Ord. 48-10, 8-16-2010; Ord. 63-10, 12-20-2010; Ord.
                      48-14, 7-21-2014; Ord. 10-18, 3-19-2018; Ord. 19-20, 5-
                      18-2020; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021; Ord. 49-23, 11-20-2023;
                      Ord. 44-24, 7-15-2024; Ord. 22-25, 6-16-2025)
 
 CHAPTER 3
LAND USE GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
16-3-1: Provisions Declared To Be Minimum Standards
16-3-2: General Lot Size Requirements And Standards
16-3-3: Application And Scope Of Regulations
16-3-4: Reduction In Lot Area Prohibited
16-3-5: Obstructions To Vision At Street Intersections Prohibited
16-3-6: Yard Requirements
16-3-7: Accessory Structures And Uses In Residential And Office Residential
Districts
16-3-7-1: Accessory Structures And Uses Permitted
16-3-7-2: Bulk Regulations
16-3-7-3: Residential Use Prohibited
16-3-8: Accessory Structures And Uses In All Other Zoning Districts
16-3-9: Accessory Uses Subject To Site Plan Review
16-3-10: Permitted Modifications Of Height Restrictions
16-3-11: Administrative Waiver For Freestanding Solar Array
16-3-12: Fees
16-3-13: Prohibited Uses
16-3-14: Exemption From Regulation
16-3-15: Off Street Parking And Loading
16-3-16: Public Buildings And Uses
16-3-17: Adjustment Of Front Yard Setbacks In R-1, R-2, R-2A, And R-3 Districts
16-3-18: Limited Setback Waiver
16-3-19: Temporary Uses
16-3-20: Construction Promotion Activity
16-3-21: Fences Located On Residential Lots
16-3-21-1: Residential Districts
16-3-21-2: Fences Located At Schools Or In Nonresidential Districts
16-3-21-3: Barbed Wire And Electric Fences
16-3-1: PROVISIONS DECLARED TO BE MINIMUM STANDARDS:
The provisions of this title are the minimum requirements for promoting the
health, safety, sustainability, and general welfare of the community. (Ord. 52-
09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-2: GENERAL LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS:
No building shall be built upon a lot without the required minimum frontage
along an improved private or public street built to minimum city street
standards. No building shall be built upon a lot without a city approved
driveway access to a public or private street or alley. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009)
16-3-3: APPLICATION AND SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   No building, structure, or part thereof, shall hereafter be built,
moved or altered, and no building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or
occupied upon a lot which is smaller in area than the minimum lot area or
minimum lot area per dwelling unit; narrower than the minimum lot width; or
shallower than the minimum lot depth required in the zoning district in which
the building, structure or land is located.
   B.   No existing building or structure shall hereafter be built or altered
so as to conflict or further conflict with this title.
   C.   This title expresses bulk regulations in terms of maximum building or
structure height, maximum lot coverage, and minimum front, side and rear yards.
Unless permitted elsewhere in this title, no building, structure or part
thereof, shall hereafter be built, moved or remodeled, and no building,
structure or land shall hereafter be used, occupied or designed for use or
occupancy so as to exceed the maximum building or structure height, or maximum
lot coverage specified for the zoning district in which the building or
structure is located.
   D.   Within residential districts, only one principal permitted use or
structure shall be located on a single zoning lot. In other districts, any
number of structures or uses permitted by this title may be built, moved,
altered, used or occupied, provided that the individual district regulations
can be met. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-4: REDUCTION IN LOT AREA PROHIBITED:
No lot existing on the effective date hereof shall be reduced in dimension or
area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-5: OBSTRUCTIONS TO VISION AT STREET INTERSECTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   On any corner lot, a visibility triangle shall be provided in which
nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow as to materially
impede vision from within motor vehicles, between a height of two feet (2') and
eight feet (8') above the average grades of the intersecting property lines, in
the area bounded by said lines, and a line joining the points of such property
lines at a distance of ten feet (10') from the intersection.
   B.   On any lot, except for those with single-family detached dwellings,
duplexes or townhouses of not more than two (2) units, a visibility triangle
shall be provided in which nothing shall be erected, planted or allowed to grow
so as to materially impede vision from within motor vehicles, between a height
of two feet (2') and eight feet (8') above the average grades of the
intersecting property line and driveway edge, in an area bounded by said lines
and a line joining the points of said property line and driveway edge at a
distance of ten feet (10') from the intersection. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-6: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All yards required by this title shall be provided and remain as open,
unobstructed space.
   B.   No part of a yard or open space required by this title for any
structure shall be included as part of a yard or open space for any other
structure, unless otherwise allowed by this title.
   C.   The following may be located within an otherwise required yard,
provided they are used in conjunction with a use permitted in the underlying
zoning district:
      1.   All Required Yards: Awnings, shutters, canopies; arbors and
trellises; swimming or wading pools less than eighteen inches (18") deep; play
equipment; chimneys projecting not more than twenty four inches (24") into the
required yard; flagpoles; steps necessary for access to a building or lot;
fences and walls as provided in section
16-3-21 of this chapter; hedges and other vegetation, and accessibility ramps
and landings, except that landings which exceed five feet (5') in any
horizontal dimension shall meet setback requirements. Poles, posts, and other
customary yard accessories, ornaments, and furniture may be located in any yard
subject to requirements limiting obstruction of visibility and height
limitations.
      2.   Required Front Yards: Bay windows, oriels, or balconies projecting
not more than five feet (5') into the required front yard; overhanging eaves
and gutters projecting into the required front yard not more than one-third (1/
3 ) the distance to the front property line from an exterior wall; off street
parking.
      3.   Required Rear Yards: Accessory uses, buildings or structures as
permitted by sections
16-3-7 and
16-3-8 of this chapter; open and unroofed off street parking spaces, patios and
terraces; bay windows projecting not more than five feet (5') into the required
rear yard; overhanging eaves and gutters projecting into the required rear yard
not more than one-third (1/3) the distance to the rear property line from an
exterior wall.
      4.   Required Side Yards: Accessory uses, buildings or structures as
permitted by sections
16-3-7 and
16-3-8 of this chapter; overhanging eaves and gutters projecting into the
required side yard not more than one-third (1/3) the distance to the side
property line from an exterior wall; open off street parking, except as
provided for in chapter 14 of this title.
      5.   Continuing Maintenance Required: The maintenance of any yard, open
space, minimum lot area, or off street parking spaces required by this title
shall be a continuing obligation of the owner of the property to which such
requirements apply. No yard, open space, lot area, or off street parking area
required by this title for any building, structure or use shall, by virtue of
change of ownership or any other reason be used to satisfy any yard, open
space, lot area, or off street parking area required for any other building,
structure, or use, except as may be otherwise specifically provided herein. In
addition, no yard or lot existing at the effective date hereof shall be reduced
in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein for the
district in which such yard or lot is located. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-7: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES IN RESIDENTIAL AND OFFICE RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS:
16-3-7-1: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES PERMITTED:
Accessory structures and uses shall only be permitted as specifically
authorized within each individual district of this title, and shall be
subordinate to and on the same zoning lot with the principal structure or use
in conjunction with which it is maintained. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-7-2: BULK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Location: No accessory use or structure permitted by this title may be
located in a required front yard, except as otherwise specifically authorized.
No accessory structure, equipment or material of any kind exceeding five feet
(5') in height may be located in a required side yard.
   B.   Accessory Use/Structure Coverage: The lot coverage of permitted
accessory uses and/or structures and the principal structure it serves shall be
calculated together for the purpose of complying with the specified lot
coverage as a percent of lot area. The maximum lot coverage shall not be
exceeded within the district in which it is located and in no case shall
permitted accessory structures or uses exceed the lot coverage of the principal
structure it serves, with a maximum of one thousand (1,000) aggregate square
feet for all detached structures.
   C.   Accessory Structure Height Limitations: No accessory structure
permitted by this title shall exceed a height of fifteen feet (15') measured
from average ground level. Satellite receiving dishes, wind energy conversion
systems, and building mounted wind turbines shall comply with the bulk
regulations of chapter 7 of this title.
   D.   Side And Rear Yard Setbacks: Side yard setbacks for all permitted
accessory structures or uses shall be the same as required for the principal
permitted use in the bulk regulations section of the specific zoning district.
Rear yard setbacks for all permitted accessory structures or uses shall be six
feet (6') for all zoning districts. Side and rear yard setbacks for detached
storage sheds no larger than one hundred twenty (120) square feet in area shall
be three feet (3') for all zoning districts, provided such structure is located
at least six feet (6') from the primary structure. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-7-3: RESIDENTIAL USE PROHIBITED:
No accessory structure may be used for residential dwelling purposes at any
time, except as allowed in section
16-8-5 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-8: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES IN ALL OTHER ZONING DISTRICTS:
In all other zoning districts, accessory structures and uses shall be permitted
with or without conditions if the city planner deems the structure or use
customarily incidental to and subordinate to the principal structure or use it
serves. Such structures and uses within nonresidential districts shall comply
with the specific bulk regulations listed within the district in which it is
located, except that gas and service stations shall be allowed pumps, pump
islands and canopies in a required front yard subject to site plan review, and
satellite receiving dishes shall comply with the requirements established in
section
16-7-2-14 of this title and wind turbines (building mounted) shall comply with
the requirements established in section
16-7-3-7 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-9: ACCESSORY USES SUBJECT TO SITE PLAN REVIEW:
The following accessory uses shall require site plan approval in accordance
with chapter 12 of this title and, where applicable, compliance with additional
supplemental land use regulations as established in chapter 7 of this title,
prior to their establishment on the premises:
   Greenhouses over one hundred (100) square feet in area.
   Satellite receiving dishes.
   Swimming pools.
   Wind energy conversion systems. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-10: PERMITTED MODIFICATIONS OF HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
The following may exceed the prescribed height limit provided they are required
for a use permitted in the district in which they are erected or constructed:
chimneys, cooling towers, condensers, elevator bulkheads, belfries, stacks,
ornamental towers, monuments, cupolas, domes, spires, stair towers, and other
necessary mechanical appurtenances and their protective housing but not to
include equipment penthouse that constitutes more than thirty percent (30%) of
the roof area. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-11: ADMINISTRATIVE WAIVER FOR FREESTANDING SOLAR ARRAY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the administrative waiver process for
residential freestanding solar arrays is to facilitate the installation of
freestanding solar arrays in residential and office districts while ensuring
compatibility with existing development patterns and protecting investments
made by surrounding property owners.
   B.   Issuance Of Waiver: The city planner shall issue a waiver only for
freestanding solar arrays that comply with the following criteria. If the
following criteria are not met, then the applicant still has the opportunity to
apply for a special exception through the zoning board of adjustment.
   C.   Criteria:
      1.   An administrative waiver for a freestanding solar array is available
in the following residential and office zoning districts: R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-3,
R-4, OR and OC districts.
      2.   An administrative waiver is available for a freestanding solar array
up to a maximum of twenty feet (20') in height and five hundred (500) square
feet in area.
      3.   That all abutting property owner(s), including property owner(s)
directly across the street, alley or platted public right of way agree to the
requested freestanding solar array by signing a waiver form supplied by the
planning services office.
      4.   That a site plan depicting the location of the freestanding solar
array on the property and its distance to the side and rear property lines
shall be prepared by the applicant and reviewed for completeness by the
planning services office staff.
      5.   That an elevation rendering of the freestanding solar array
indicating maximum height and width of the installation shall also be prepared
by the applicant and reviewed for completeness by planning services office.
      6.   The applicant shall meet with each property owner and review with
them the site plan and elevation rendering for the proposed solar array
installation. Each property owner will need to agree to the proposal by signing
a waiver form.
   D.   Completion Of Process: Planning staff will verify that the application
is complete and that all waiver forms are signed, have the applicant sign
before a notary that they met with all the neighboring property owners and
received their signatures, and notify the building services department that an
administrative waiver has been approved. (Ord. 58-16, 11-21-2016)
16-3-12: FEES:
Any application for action taken under this title shall be submitted along with
the required fee, as established by resolution of the city council. All
required fees shall be submitted to the city planner for deposit with the city
treasurer. No fee is required for applications filed in the public interest by
members of the city council, zoning advisory commission, zoning board of
adjustment, city manager, or other city department. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-13: PROHIBITED USES:
Uses not listed within this title shall be prohibited, except that uses similar
in nature and intensity to those specifically listed may be allowed, provided
the city planner determines that such use presents a character and
compatibility consistent with other uses in the same zoning district, and is
consistent with the spirit and intent of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-14: EXEMPTION FROM REGULATION:
The following structures or uses are exempt from the regulations of this title
and shall be permitted in any district:
   A.   Poles, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains, valves,
or any other similar equipment for transmission or distribution to customers of
telephone or other communication services, electricity, gas, steam or water, or
the collection of sewage or surface water, operated or maintained by a public
utility.
   B.   Individually owned residential antennas not including satellite
receiving dishes over four feet (4') in diameter.
   C.   Railroad tracks, signals, bridges and similar facilities and equipment
located on a railroad right of way.
   D.   Communication towers used to transmit and/or receive television, radio,
cellular, or other communication signals shall not be exempt from this title.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-15: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
No structure shall hereafter be built or moved and no structure or land shall
hereafter be used, occupied, or designed for use or occupancy unless the
minimum off street parking required by the provisions of chapter 14 of this
title are provided. No structure or use already established on the effective
date hereof shall be enlarged, expanded or increased in area or intensity of
use unless the minimum off street parking spaces which would be required by the
provisions of this title for such enlargement, expansion or increase in area or
intensity of use are provided. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-16: PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND USES:
All buildings, structures, signs, or uses owned or operated by the city shall
be exempt from the regulations of this title and shall be permitted in any
district, provided a site plan is submitted and approved in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-17: ADJUSTMENT OF FRONT YARD SETBACKS IN R-1, R-2, R-2A, AND R-
3 DISTRICTS:
The required front yard setback may be adjusted by the city planner as follows:
   A.   Interior Lots: Where dwellings exist on both abutting lots and both
have setback less than required by the underlying zoning district, the setback
for the interior lot need not exceed the average of the setbacks of the two (2)
abutting dwellings. Where dwellings exist on both abutting lots and only one
has a setback less than required by the underlying zoning district, the setback
for the interior lot need not exceed the average of the required setback and
the smaller setback.
   B.   Corner Lots: Where a dwelling exists on an abutting lot and has a
setback less than required by the underlying zoning district, the setback for
the corner lot need not exceed the setback of the abutting lot on the same
street frontage, provided the required visibility triangle is maintained.
   C.   Building Extending Beyond Front Property Line: In no event shall any
structure extend beyond the front property line of a lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4219.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-18: LIMITED SETBACK WAIVER:
   A.   The purpose of the limited setback waiver for one- and two-family
residential structures that meet the following criteria established by the city
council is to encourage reinvestment and infill housing, and to maintain
property values in the city's residential neighborhoods. The city planner shall
issue a waiver only for such setback adjustments that meet the following
criteria. No public hearing or zoning board of adjustment review shall be
required if the following criteria can be met. If these criteria are not met,
then the applicant still has the opportunity to apply for a special exception
from the zoning board of adjustment, in which case the criteria for the special
exception, not the limited setback waiver, would apply.
   B.   The limited setback waiver requested is 33.3 percent or less of the
required setback(s).
   C.   That all abutting property owner(s), including property owners directly
across the street, agree(s) to the setback waiver(s) on a notarized letter
stating they have no objection to the request.
   D.   The setback waiver requested for an additional or an accessory
structure is the same or greater than the setback(s) of the existing structure.
   E.   The setback waiver request for reconstruction of an addition or an
accessory structure is the same or greater than the setback(s) of a previously
existing structure that has been removed. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-19: TEMPORARY USES:
Within any zoning district, temporary uses shall be allowed only as listed as a
temporary use within the zoning district in which the proposed temporary use is
located, provided that:
   A.   A site plan, indicating the proposed use, its duration, off street
parking, and traffic circulation be submitted with the appropriate filing fee
as established by resolution of the city council and approved by signature of
the city planner except as otherwise provided for in the district regulations.
For allowed temporary uses, the city planner may waive site development
standards for the duration of the temporary use; and
   B.   The use is of a limited and temporary duration, and in no case, shall
exceed six (6) months per calendar year unless the city planner grants an
extension upon showing of good cause. The city planner may grant a maximum of
two (2) 90-day extensions; and
   C.   The use will serve a public need or contribute to the public
convenience and welfare; and
   D.   The use bears some functional or other beneficial relationship to a
permitted use within the district; and
   E.   The use will not be likely to interfere with the appropriate use and
enjoyment of nearby properties that may be affected by its operation. (Ord. 52-
09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-20: CONSTRUCTION PROMOTION ACTIVITY:
   A.   Within any lot subject to a valid building permit, temporary
construction buildings, storage trailers, materials, and/or equipment,
including a temporary batch plant, necessary for construction authorized by a
valid building permit, shall be permitted, provided the location of the
building, trailer, materials, equipment, and batch plant has been approved by
the building official.
   B.   Within any platted subdivision, the following uses shall be permitted:
      1.   A subdivision sales office under the following conditions:
         a.   The purpose of the subdivision sales office shall be to promote
the sales of lots or homes in the subdivision.
         b.   Any office or similar premises used in connection with the
subdivision sales office shall be located within a subdivision display home and
no exterior reconstruction or any permanent alteration of the display home
shall be permitted in establishing the subdivision sales office.
         c.   There shall be no sign on the premises other than those permitted
by this title.
         d.   The subdivision sales office may continue for a period of one
year from the issuance of the first building permit to a builder, contractor,
or subdivider within the subdivision. A renewal permit may be issued by the
building official to allow continuation of the subdivision sales office after
an evaluation of the location of the subdivision sales office, the type of
development in the immediate area, and the effect of the sales office on the
adjacent area.
      2.   Subdivision display homes which do not contain any subdivision sales
offices or continuing sales activities or continuing displays, shall be exempt
from this section. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-21: FENCES LOCATED ON RESIDENTIAL LOTS:
16-3-21-1: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
On any residential lot, fences may be erected to a height of seven feet (7') in
all yards except that fences erected in required front yards shall not exceed
four feet (4') in height provided, that ten feet (10') of clear visibility
shall be maintained on corner lots in accordance with section
16-3-5 of this chapter. Fences surrounding pools shall also comply with all
applicable standards required by the building code. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-21-2: FENCES LOCATED AT SCHOOLS OR IN NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
Fences surrounding schoolyards or located in nonresidential zoning districts
shall be exempt from the provisions of section
16-3-21-1 of this chapter; provided, that visibility at intersections is not
hindered in accordance with section
16-3-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-3-21-3: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
Barbed wire and electric fences shall not be permitted below eight feet (8') in
height, except when used in the AG agriculture district for purposes of
containing livestock. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 4
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
16-4-0: Intent
16-4-1: Nonconformities Generally
16-4-2: Nonconformity Created By Change In Law Or Boundary
16-4-3: Effect On Nonconformities Illegal Under Prior Law
16-4-4: Nonconforming Uses
16-4-5: Nonconforming Lots
16-4-6: Nonconforming Structures
16-4-7: Nonconforming Characteristics Of Use
16-4-0: INTENT:
It is the intent of this title to recognize the legitimate interests of owners
of lawful nonconformities by allowing such lawful nonconformities to continue,
subject to the provisions contained herein. At the same time, it is recognized
that lawful nonconformities may substantially and adversely affect the orderly
development, maintenance, use and value of other property in the same zoning
district, property that is itself subject to the regulations and terms of this
title. In order to secure eventual compliance with the city's comprehensive
plan and with the standards of this title, it is therefore necessary to
carefully regulate lawful nonconformities and to prohibit the reestablishment
of such nonconformities that have been discontinued. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-4-1: NONCONFORMITIES GENERALLY:
   A.   Within the zoning districts established by this title or its subsequent
amendment, there exist uses, lots, and structures, which were lawful before
this title was adopted or amended, but which would now be prohibited, regulated
or restricted under the terms of this title or its subsequent amendment. Such
nonconformities shall hereafter be considered lawful nonconformities.
   B.   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the adoption or
amendment of this title and upon which actual building construction has been
carried on diligently.
   C.   "Actual building construction" is hereby defined to include the
placement of construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a
permanent manner. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-4-2: NONCONFORMITY CREATED BY CHANGE IN LAW OR BOUNDARY:
Whenever a use, lot, or structure becomes nonconforming due to a change in this
title or the zoning district boundaries, such use, lot, or structure may be
continued in conformance with this chapter. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-4-3: EFFECT ON NONCONFORMITIES ILLEGAL UNDER PRIOR LAW:
Nothing in this title shall be interpreted as authorization for, or approval
of, the continuance of a use, lot, or structure which was in violation of
zoning regulations in effect immediately prior to the effective date hereof or
was otherwise illegal. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-4-4: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Any lawful nonconforming use of a lot or structure may be continued so
long as it remains otherwise lawful and provided there is no enlargement,
increase or extension of the use which would result in a greater area of the
zoning lot being occupied than was occupied at the time of the adoption of this
title, and that no additional structures or additions to structures existing at
the time of the adoption of this title shall be constructed on the same zoning
lot. Further, no such use shall be increased in intensity or moved or relocated
in whole or in part to any other portion of the zoning lot on which it was
located at the time of the adoption of this title.
   B.   A lawful nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of the
structure in which it is located, provided said structure or parts thereof were
manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of the adoption of
this title.
   C.   If any lawful nonconforming use of a lot or structure ceases for any
reason for a period of more than one year, any subsequent use of such lot or
structure shall conform to the requirements of this title.
   D.   Whenever a lawful nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use,
such nonconforming use shall not thereafter be resumed.
   E.   When a building or structure housing a nonconforming use is damaged by
fire, explosion, act of God, or the public enemy to an extent of more than
seventy five percent (75%) of its fair market value, such building or structure
shall not be restored unless the use of the same shall thereafter conform to
the uses permitted in the district in which it is located, except that lawful
nonconforming residential uses may be resumed. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-4-5: NONCONFORMING LOTS:
   A.   Any lot having insufficient area, width or depth for the zoning
district in which it is located, lacking frontage on an improved public street
or an improved private street of a planned district, or any combination
thereof, shall be considered a lawful nonconforming lot only if it was
conforming, lawfully platted, and filed in the office of the Dubuque County
recorder prior to the adoption of this title or if a deed or other instrument
in the owner's chain of title creating or containing a legal description
consistent with the current dimensions of such lot was lawfully recorded and
filed in the office of the Dubuque County recorder prior to the adoption of
this title.
   B.   On any single, lawful nonconforming lot located within a zoning
district which permits single-family detached residential dwellings, one such
dwelling may be constructed by right, provided that setbacks (yards), height,
lot coverage, and off street parking requirements of the zoning district within
which the parcel is located are complied with, and all appropriate permits are
obtained prior to any construction activity. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-4-6: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Structures that were lawfully constructed prior to the adoption of this
title, but which could not be constructed under the terms of this title by
reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, setbacks (yards),
location on the lot or other requirements concerning structures, shall
hereafter be considered lawful nonconforming structures. They may continue to
exist so long as they remain otherwise lawful, provided that no reconstruction,
enlargement or alteration of said structures shall occur that will increase
their nonconformity except as provided herein. However, any lawful
nonconforming structure or portion thereof may be altered to reduce its
nonconformity.
   B.   Alterations conducted by order of the city to comply with building or
life safety code provisions shall be permitted.
   C.   When a lawful nonconforming structure is damaged by fire, explosion,
act of God, or the public enemy to an extent of more than seventy five percent
(75%) of its fair market value, such structure shall not be restored except in
conformance with the requirements of the district in which it is located.
However, lawful nonconforming structures used solely for residential uses may
be reconstructed to their location, size, and external dimensions that existed
at the time of damage. Residential lawful nonconformities may be expanded
provided they comply with the schedule of R-2A alternate two-family residential
district regulations. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-4-7: NONCONFORMING CHARACTERISTICS OF USE:
Whenever, due to the adoption or amendment of this title, off street parking,
paving of parking area, landscaping, screening, and similar site improvements
do not conform to the requirements of this title, the deficiencies shall be
considered lawful nonconforming characteristics of such use. Said deficiencies
shall be brought into conformance whenever the use, lot, or structure with
which they are associated is expanded by twenty five percent (25%) or more of
building area existing at the time of adoption of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
16-5-1: Generally
16-5-1-1: Application Of Zoning District Regulations
16-5-1-2: Zoning District Boundaries
16-5-1-3: Official Zoning Map
16-5-1-4: Zoning Districts Established
16-5-1-5: Annexation Zoning Policy
16-5-1-6: Conformance To Code Required
16-5-2: R-1 Single-Family Residential
16-5-2-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-2-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-2-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-2-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-2-5: Parking
16-5-2-6: Signs
16-5-2-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-3: R-2 Two-Family Residential
16-5-3-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-3-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-3-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-3-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-3-5: Parking
16-5-3-6: Signs
16-5-3-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-4: R-2A Alternate Two-Family Residential
16-5-4-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-4-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-4-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-4-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-4-5: Parking
16-5-4-6: Signs
16-5-4-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-5: R-3 Moderate Density Multi-Family Residential
16-5-5-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-5-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-5-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-5-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-5-5: Parking
16-5-5-6: Signs
16-5-5-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-6: R-4 Multi-Family Residential
16-5-6-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-6-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-6-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-6-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-6-5: Parking
16-5-6-6: Signs
16-5-6-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-7: OR Office Residential
16-5-7-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-7-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-7-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-7-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-7-5: Parking
16-5-7-6: Signs
16-5-7-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-8: OS Office Service
16-5-8-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-8-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-8-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-8-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-8-5: Parking
16-5-8-6: Signs
16-5-8-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-9: OC Office Commercial
16-5-9-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-9-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-9-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-9-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-9-5: Parking
16-5-9-6: Signs
16-5-9-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-10: C-1 Neighborhood Commercial
16-5-10-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-10-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-10-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-10-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-10-5: Parking
16-5-10-6: Signs
16-5-10-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-10-8: Standards For Nonresidential Uses
16-5-11: C-2 Neighborhood Shopping Center
16-5-11-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-11-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-11-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-11-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-11-5: Parking
16-5-11-6: Signs
16-5-11-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-12: C-2A Mixed Use Neighborhood
16-5-12-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-12-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-12-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-12-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-12-5: Parking
16-5-12-6: Signs
16-5-12-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-13: C-3 General Commercial
16-5-13-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-13-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-13-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-13-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-13-5: Parking
16-5-13-6: Signs
16-5-13-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-14: C-4 Downtown Commercial
16-5-14-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-14-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-14-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-14-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-14-5: Parking
16-5-14-6: Signs
16-5-14-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-15: C-5 Central Business
16-5-15-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-15-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-15-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-15-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-15-5: Parking
16-5-15-6: Signs
16-5-15-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-16: CS Commercial Service And Wholesale
16-5-16-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-16-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-16-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-16-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-16-5: Parking
16-5-16-6: Signs
16-5-16-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-17: CR Commercial Recreation
16-5-17-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-17-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-17-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-17-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-17-5: Parking
16-5-17-6: Signs
16-5-17-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-18: LI Light Industrial
16-5-18-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-18-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-18-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-18-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-18-5: Parking
16-5-18-6: Signs
16-5-18-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-19: HI Heavy Industrial
16-5-19-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-19-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-19-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-19-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-19-5: Parking
16-5-19-6: Signs
16-5-19-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-20: MHI Modified Heavy Industrial
16-5-20-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-20-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-20-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-20-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-20-5: Parking
16-5-20-6: Signs
16-5-20-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-21: AG Agriculture
16-5-21-1: Prohibited Uses
16-5-21-2: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-21-3: Conditional Uses
16-5-21-4: Accessory Uses
16-5-21-5: Temporary Uses
16-5-21-6: Parking
16-5-21-7: Signs
16-5-21-8: Bulk Regulations
16-5-22: ID Institutional
16-5-22-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-22-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-22-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-22-4: District Establishment, Expansion And Modification
16-5-22-5: Commencement Of Use By Parties Unassociated With Principal
Institution Prohibited
16-5-22-6: District Standards
16-5-22-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-23: POS Public Open Space
16-5-23-1: Principal Permitted Uses
16-5-23-2: Conditional Uses
16-5-23-3: Accessory Uses
16-5-23-4: Temporary Uses
16-5-23-5: Parking
16-5-23-6: Signs
16-5-23-7: Bulk Regulations
16-5-24: PUD Planned Unit Development
16-5-24-1: Purpose
16-5-24-2: General Requirements
16-5-24-3: Development Regulations
16-5-24-4: Procedure To Establish, Amend, Or Expand PUD
16-5-24-5: Plan Approval Standards
16-5-24-6: Commission Recommendation
16-5-24-7: Council Action
16-5-24-8: Development To Follow Approved Site Plan
16-5-1: GENERALLY:
16-5-1-1: APPLICATION OF ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
In order to regulate and restrict the height, number of stories, and size of
buildings and other structures; the percentage of lot that may be occupied; the
size of the yards, courts, and other open spaces; the density of population;
and the location and use of buildings, structures, and land for trade,
industry, residence, or other purposes, the city and the area within its
extraterritorial jurisdiction is hereby divided into zoning districts. (Ord.
52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-1-2: ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts shown on the official zoning map, the following rules apply:
   A.   The district boundaries are the centerlines of either streets or alleys
unless otherwise shown, and where the districts designated on the official
zoning map are bounded approximately by street or alley centerlines, the street
or alley centerline shall be construed to be the boundary of the district.
   B.   Where the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and
platted lots, the district boundaries shall be construed to coincide with the
nearest platted lot lines; and where the districts designated on the official
zoning map are bounded approximately by platted lot lines, the platted lot line
shall be construed to be the boundary of the district.
   C.   In unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines on the official
zoning map shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the map. (Ord.
52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-1-3: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   The city is hereby divided into districts as shown on the official
zoning map, which together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this title. The official
zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor, attested by the
city clerk together with the date of adoption of this title. The official
zoning map shall be located in the planning services department.
   B.   No changes of any nature shall be made on the official zoning map
except in conformity with the procedure set forth in this title. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-5-1-4: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the purposes of this title, the following districts are
hereby established:
Residential districts:
Residential districts:
 R-2  Two-family residential
 R-2A Alternate two-family residential
 R-3  Moderate density multi-family residential
 R-4  Multi-family residential
Office districts:
 OR   Office residential
 OS   Office service
 OC   Office commercial
Commercial districts:
 C-1  Neighborhood commercial
 C-2  Neighborhood shopping center
 C-2A Mixed use neighborhood
 C-3  General commercial
 C-4  Downtown commercial
 C-5  Central business
 CS   Commercial service and wholesale
 CR   Commercial recreation
Industrial districts:
 LI   Light industrial
 HI   Heavy industrial
 MHI  Modified heavy industrial
Special purpose districts:
 AG   Agriculture
 ID   Institutional
 POS  Public open space
 PUD  Planned unit development
Overlay districts:
 RROD Rural residential
 RHOD Restricted height
 SOD  Freeway 61/151 corridor signage
     Flood hazard
 OTN  Old town neighborhood
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-1-5: ANNEXATION ZONING POLICY:
All unincorporated territory which may come within the jurisdiction of the city
limits by virtue of annexation to the city shall be placed and continued in the
AG agriculture district, unless prior to annexation, such land is classified,
effective upon annexation, as another zoning district. If voluntary annexation
of the territory is requested, but the territory is not classified as requested
by the applicant, the applicant may withdraw the voluntary annexation request.
If not so classified, the territory shall be classified AG agriculture
district, and shall remain in that classification pending request for
reclassification in accordance with the provisions of section
16-9-5 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-1-6: CONFORMANCE TO CODE REQUIRED:
   A.   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building, structure, or part hereof, shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located. Regulations within each district shall be applied uniformly to each
class or kind of structure or land.
   B.   Unless permitted elsewhere in this title, no building, structure, or
part thereof, shall hereafter be built, moved or remodeled, and no building,
structure or land shall hereafter be used, occupied or designed for use or
occupancy:
      1.   So as to exceed the maximum building or structure height, or maximum
lot coverage specified for the zoning district in which the building or
structure is located; or
      2.   So as to provide any front, side, or rear yard or other open space
that is less than the minimum specified for the zoning district in which such
building, structure or use of land is located or maintained; or
      3.   So as to exceed the maximum number of units specified for the zoning
district in which such building is located. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-2: R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL:
The R-1 district is the most restrictive residential district and is intended
to protect low density residential areas from the encroachment of incompatible
uses. The principal use of land in this district is for low density single-
family dwellings and related recreational, religious and educational
facilities. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-2-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the R-1 district:
   Cemetery, mausoleum, or columbarium.
   Community gardens.
   Golf course.
   Maternity group home.
   Parks, public or private, and similar natural recreation areas.
   Place of religious exercise or assembly.
   Public, private or parochial school approved by the state of Iowa (K - 12).
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Single-family detached dwelling. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 17-13,
3-18-2013; Ord. 19-20, 5-18-2020; Ord. 49-23, 11-20-2023)
16-5-2-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the R-1 district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Accessory dwelling unit.
   Bed and breakfast home.
   Keeping of horses or ponies.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Mortuary, funeral home, or crematorium.
   Off street parking.
   Tour home.
   Tourist home.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 66-14, 11-
17-2014)
16-5-2-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Detached garage.
   Fence.
   Garage sale, provided that not more than three (3) such sales shall be
allowed per premises per calendar year and not more than three (3) consecutive
days per sale.
   Home based business.
   Keeping of hens for egg production.
   Noncommercial garden, greenhouse or nursery.
   Off street parking and storage of vehicles.
   Satellite receiving dish.
   Solar collector (freestanding arrays are limited to not more than 100
aggregate square feet and 10 feet in height).
   Sport, recreation, or outdoor cooking equipment.
   Storage building.
   Tennis court, swimming pool or similar permanent facility.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 47-14,
7-21-2014; Ord. 54-15, 8-17-2015)
16-5-2-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-2-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-2-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-2-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
                              Maximum  Setbacks
R-          Minimum  Minimum  Lot      Front                            Maximum
1           Lot Area Lot      Coverage                  Minimum Minimum Height
Residential          Frontage (Lot     Minimum2 Maximum Side    Rear
                              Area)
                              Maximum  Setbacks
R-          Minimum  Minimum  Lot      Front                            Maximum
1           Lot Area Lot      Coverage                  Minimum Minimum Height
Residential          Frontage (Lot     Minimum2 Maximum Side    Rear
                              Area)
Permitted                                                         
uses:
Place of
religious   20,000
exercise or sq. ft.  100 ft.  40%      20 ft.   -       20 ft.  20 ft.  75 ft.1
assembly,
school
Single-
family      5,000    50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   50 ft.  6 ft.   20 ft.  30 ft.
detached    sq. ft.
dwelling
Conditional                                                       
uses:
Bed and     5,000
breakfast   sq. ft.  50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   50 ft.  6 ft.   20 ft.  30 ft.
home
Licensed
adult day
services,   5,000    50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   -       6 ft.   20 ft.  30 ft.
licensed    sq. ft.
childcare
center
Mortuary,
funeral     20,000   100 ft.  40%      20 ft.   -       20 ft.  20 ft.  30 ft.
home or     sq. ft.
crematorium
 
Notes:
   1.    May be erected to a height not exceeding 75 feet; provided, that such
buildings shall provide at least 1 additional foot of yard space on all sides
for each additional foot by which such building exceeds the maximum height
limit of the district in which it is located.
   2.    See section
16-3-17 of this title for adjustment of minimum front yard setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4249.gif](Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-3: R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL:
The R-2 district is intended to provide residential areas characterized by
single-family and two-family dwellings. Increased densities and the
introduction of two-family housing types are intended to provide greater
housing options while maintaining the basic qualities of a low density
residential neighborhood. The principal use of land in this district is for low
density single- and two-family dwellings and related recreational, religious
and educational facilities. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-3-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the R-2 district:
   Cemetery, mausoleum, or columbarium.
   Community gardens.
   Golf course.
   Maternity group home.
   Parks, public or private, and similar natural recreation areas.
   Place of religious exercise or assembly.
   Public, private, or parochial school, approved by the state of Iowa (K -
12).
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Single-family detached dwelling.
   Townhouse (maximum 2 dwelling units).
   Two-family dwelling (duplex). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 17-13, 3-
18-2013; Ord. 19-20, 5-18-2020; Ord. 49-23, 11-20-2023)
16-5-3-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the R-2 district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Accessory dwelling unit.
   Bed and breakfast home.
   Hospice.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Mortuary, funeral home, or crematorium.
   Off street parking.
   Tour home.
   Tourist home.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 66-14, 11-
17-2014; Ord. 20-22, 5-20-2022)
16-5-3-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Detached garage.
   Fence.
   Garage sale, provided that not more than three (3) such sales shall be
allowed per premises per calendar year and not more than three (3) consecutive
days per sale.
   Home based business.
   Keeping of hens for egg production.
   Noncommercial garden, greenhouse or nursery.
   Off street parking and storage of vehicles.
   Satellite receiving dish.
   Solar collector (freestanding arrays are limited to not more than 100
aggregate square feet and 10 feet in height).
   Sport, recreation, or outdoor cooking equipment.
   Storage building.
   Tennis court, swimming pool or similar permanent facility.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 47-14,
7-21-2014; Ord. 54-15, 8-17-2015)
16-5-3-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-3-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title, except for properties located within
the Jackson Park and Cathedral Historic Districts where off-street parking is
not required. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 9-24, 4-15-2024)
16-5-3-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-3-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
                              Maximum  Setbacks
R-          Minimum  Minimum  Lot      Front                            Maximum
2           Lot Area Lot      Coverage                  Minimum Minimum Height
Residential          Frontage (Lot     Minimum2 Maximum Side    Rear
                              Area)
                             Maximum  Setbacks
R-          Minimum Minimum  Lot      Front                             Maximum
2           Lot     Lot      Coverage                  Minimum Minimum  Height
Residential Area    Frontage (Lot     Minimum2 Maximum Side    Rear
                             Area)
Permitted                                                         
uses:
Place of
religious   20,000
exercise or sq. ft. 100 ft.  40%      20 ft.   -       20 ft.  20 ft.   75 ft.1
assembly,
school
Single-
family      5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   50 ft.  6 ft.   20 ft.   30 ft.
detached    sq. ft.
dwelling
Townhouse   3,000   25 ft./
(2 du       sq.     du       40%      20 ft.   50 ft.  6/0 ft. 20/0 ft. 30 ft.
maximum)    ft./du
Two-family  6,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   50 ft.  6 ft.   20 ft.   30 ft.
dwelling    sq. ft.
Conditional                                                       
uses:
Bed and     5,000
breakfast   sq. ft. 50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   50 ft.  6 ft.   20 ft.   30 ft.
home
Hospice     5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   -       6 ft.   20 ft.   30 ft.
            sq. ft.
Licensed
adult day
services,   5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   -       6 ft.   20 ft.   30 ft.
licensed    sq. ft.
childcare
center
Mortuary,
funeral     20,000  100 ft.  40%      20 ft.   -       20 ft.  20 ft.   30 ft.
home or     sq. ft.
crematorium
 
Notes:
   1.    May be erected to a height not exceeding 75 feet; provided, that such
buildings shall provide at least 1 additional foot of yard space on all sides
for each additional foot by which such building exceeds the maximum height
limit of the district in which it is located.
   2.    See section
16-3-17 of this title for adjustment of minimum front yard setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4198.gif]
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-4: R-2A ALTERNATE TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL:
The R-2A district is intended to provide for the protection of certain older
areas of the community developed principally as single-family and two-family
uses. Characteristics of the R-2A district are: smaller than average lot widths
and area, established building lines much closer to the public right of way and
required setback lines, and/or greater lot coverage than allowed in the more
recent developing areas where such requirements can be provided. The R-2A
district is intended to be located in those areas displaying one or more of the
above characteristics. The purpose of this district is to stabilize and
preserve the residential character of existing areas through the establishment
of bulk regulations in conformity with existing conditions. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009)
16-5-4-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the R-2A district:
   Cemetery, mausoleum, or columbarium.
   Community gardens.
   Golf course.
   Maternity group home.
   Parks, public or private, and similar natural recreation areas.
   Place of religious exercise or assembly.
   Public, private, or parochial school approved by state of Iowa (K - 12).
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Single-family detached dwelling.
   Townhouse (maximum 2 dwelling units).
   Two-family dwelling (duplex). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 17-13, 3-
18-2013; Ord. 19-20, 5-18-2020; Ord. 49-23, 11-20-2023)
16-5-4-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the R-2A district, subject
to the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Accessory dwelling unit.
   Bed and breakfast home.
   Hospice.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Off premises residential garage.
   Off street parking.
   Tour home.
   Tourist home.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; Ord. 20-22, 5-20-
2022)
16-5-4-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Detached garage.
   Fence.
   Garage sale, provided that not more than three (3) such sales shall be
allowed per premises per calendar year and not more than three (3) consecutive
days per sale.
   Home based business.
   Keeping of hens for egg production.
   Noncommercial garden, greenhouse or nursery.
   Off street parking and storage of vehicles.
   Satellite receiving dish.
   Solar collector (freestanding arrays are limited to not more than 100
aggregate square feet and 10 feet in height).
   Sport, recreation, or outdoor cooking equipment.
   Storage building.
   Tennis court, swimming pool or similar permanent facility.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 47-14,
7-21-2014; Ord. 54-15, 8-17-2015)
16-5-4-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-4-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title, except for properties located within
the Jackson Park and Cathedral Historic Districts where off-street parking is
not required. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 9-24, 4-15-2024)
16-5-4-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-4-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
                             Maximum  Setbacks
R-2A        Minimum Minimum  Lot      Front                              Maximum
Residential Lot     Lot      Coverage                    Minimum Minimum Height
            Area    Frontage (Lot     Minimum1,3 Maximum Side    Rear
                             Area)
                             Maximum  Setbacks
R-2A        Minimum Minimum  Lot      Front                              Maximum
Residential Lot     Lot      Coverage                    Minimum Minimum Height
            Area    Frontage (Lot     Minimum1,3 Maximum Side    Rear
                             Area)
Permitted                                                          
uses:
Place of
religious   20,000
exercise or sq. ft. 100 ft.  40%      10 ft.     -       20 ft.  20 ft.  75 ft.2
assembly,
school
Single-
family      2,500   25 ft.   50%      10 ft.     50 ft.  3 ft.   10 ft.  30 ft.
detached    sq. ft.
dwelling
Townhouse   2,500   25 ft./                                      10/
(2 du       sq.     du       50%      10 ft.     50 ft.  3/0 ft. 0 ft.   30 ft.
maximum)    ft./du
Two-family  2,500   25 ft.   50%      10 ft.     50 ft.  3 ft.   10 ft.  30 ft.
dwelling    sq. ft.
Conditional                                                        
uses:
Bed and     2,500
breakfast   sq. ft. 25 ft.   50%      10 ft.     50 ft.  3 ft.   10 ft.  30 ft.
home
Hospice     2,500   25 ft.   50%      10 ft.     -       3 ft.   10 ft.  30 ft.
            sq. ft.
Licensed
adult day
services,   2,500   25 ft.   50%      10 ft.     -       3 ft.   10 ft.  30 ft.
licensed    sq. ft.
childcare
center
Off
premises    -       -        -        10 ft.     -       3 ft.   6 ft.   15 ft.
residential
garage
 
Notes:
   1.    Minimum 20 feet for garages facing a street.
   2.    May be erected to a height not exceeding 75 feet; provided, that such
buildings shall provide at least 1 additional foot of yard space on all sides
for each additional foot by which such building exceeds the maximum height
limit of the district in which it is located.
   3.    See section
16-3-17 of this title for adjustment of minimum front yard setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4260.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-5: R-3 MODERATE DENSITY MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL:
The R-3 district is intended to provide locations for a variety of dwelling
types ranging from single-family to low rise multi-family dwellings. The R-
3 district also serves as a transition between residential and nonresidential
districts. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-5-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the R-3 district:
   Cemetery, mausoleum, or columbarium.
   Community gardens.
   Golf course.
   Maternity group home.
   Multi-family dwelling (maximum 6 dwelling units).
   Parks, public or private, and similar natural recreation areas.
   Place of religious exercise or assembly.
   Public, private, or parochial school approved by state of Iowa (K - 12).
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Single-family detached dwelling.
   Townhouse (maximum 6 dwelling units).
   Two-family dwelling (duplex). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 17-13, 3-
18-2013; Ord. 19-20, 5-18-2020; Ord. 49-23, 11-20-2023)
16-5-5-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the R-3 district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Accessory dwelling unit.
   Bed and breakfast home.
   Group home.
   Hospice.
   Housing for the elderly or persons with disabilities.
   Individual zero lot line detached dwelling.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Mortuary, funeral home, or crematorium.
   Nursing or convalescent home.
   Off premises residential garage.
   Off street parking.
   Rooming or boarding house.
   Tour home.
   Tourist home.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; Ord. 20-22, 5-20-
2022)
16-5-5-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Detached garage.
   Fence.
   Garage sale, provided that not more than three (3) such sales shall be
allowed per premises per calendar year and not more than three (3) consecutive
days per sale.
   Home based business.
   Keeping of hens for egg production.
   Noncommercial garden, greenhouse or nursery.
   Off street parking and storage of vehicles.
   Satellite receiving dish.
   Solar collector (freestanding arrays are limited to not more than 100
aggregate square feet and 10 feet in height).
   Sport, recreation, or outdoor cooking equipment.
   Storage building.
   Tennis court, swimming pool or similar permanent facility.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 47-14,
7-21-2014; Ord. 54-15, 8-17-2015)
16-5-5-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-5-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title, except for properties located within
the Jackson Park and Cathedral Historic Districts where off-street parking is
not required. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 9-24, 4-15-2024)
16-5-5-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-5-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
                              Maximum  Setbacks
R-          Minimum  Minimum  Lot      Front                            Maximum
3           Lot Area Lot      Coverage                  Minimum Minimum Height
Residential          Frontage (Lot     Minimum2 Maximum Side    Rear
                              Area)
                              Maximum  Setbacks
R-           Minimum Minimum  Lot      Front                            Maximum
3            Lot     Lot      Coverage                  Minimum Minimum Height
Residential  Area    Frontage (Lot     Minimum2 Maximum Side    Rear
                              Area)
Permitted                                                         
uses:
Multi-family 2,000
dwelling (6  sq.     50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   -       4 ft.   20 ft.  30 ft.
du maximum)  ft./du
Place of
religious    20,000
exercise or  sq. ft. 100 ft.  40%      20 ft.   -       20 ft.  20 ft.  75 ft.1
assembly,
school
Single-
family       5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   50 ft.  4 ft.   20 ft.  30 ft.
detached     sq. ft.
dwelling
Townhouse (6 1,600   16 ft./                                    20/
du maximum)  sq.     du       40%      20 ft.   -       4/0 ft. 0 ft.   30 ft.
             ft./du
Two-family   5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   50 ft.  4 ft.   20 ft.  30 ft.
dwelling     sq. ft.
Conditional                                                       
uses:
Bed and      5,000
breakfast    sq. ft. 50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   50 ft.  4 ft.   20 ft.  30 ft.
home
Group home   5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   -       4 ft.   20 ft.  30 ft.
             sq. ft.
Hospice      5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   -       4 ft.   20 ft.  30 ft.
             sq. ft.
Housing for  20,000
the elderly  sq. ft. 100 ft.  40%      20 ft.   -       20 ft.  20 ft.  30 ft.
or disabled
Individual
zero lot     5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   50 ft.  10/     20 ft.  30 ft.
line         sq. ft.                                    0 ft.
dwelling
Licensed
adult day
services,    5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   -       4 ft.   20 ft.  40 ft.
licensed     sq. ft.
childcare
center
Mortuary,
funeral home 20,000  100 ft.  40%      20 ft.   -       20 ft.  20 ft.  30 ft.
or           sq. ft.
crematorium
Nursing or   20,000
convalescent sq. ft. 100 ft.  40%      20 ft.   -       20 ft.  20 ft.  30 ft.
home
Off premises
residential  -       -        -        20 ft.   -       4 ft.   6 ft.   15 ft.
garage
Rooming or   5,000
boarding     sq. ft. 50 ft.   40%      20 ft.   -       4 ft.   20 ft.  30 ft.
house
 
Notes:
   1.    May be erected to a height not exceeding 75 feet; provided, that such
buildings shall provide at least 1 additional foot of yard space on all sides
for each additional foot by which such building exceeds the maximum height
limit of the district in which it is located.
   2.    See section
16-3-17 of this title for adjustment of minimum front yard setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4264.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-6: R-4 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL:
The R-4 district is intended to provide residential areas of moderate to high
density developments located adjacent to a major street and serves as a buffer
or transition between commercial development, nonresidential uses, or heavy
automobile traffic and medium density residential development. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009)
16-5-6-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the R-4 district:
   Cemetery, mausoleum, or columbarium.
   Community gardens.
   Golf course.
   Maternity group home.
   Multi-family dwelling (3 to 12 units per buildings).
   Parks, public or private, and similar natural recreation areas.
   Place of religious exercise or assembly.
   Public, private, or parochial school approved by state of Iowa (K - 12).
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Single-family detached dwelling.
   Townhouse (3 to 12 units laterally attached).
   Two-family dwelling (duplex). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 17-13, 3-
18-2013; Ord. 19-20, 5-18-2020; Ord. 49-23, 11-20-2023)
16-5-6-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the R-4 district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Accessory dwelling unit.
   Bed and breakfast home.
   Bed and breakfast inn.
   Group home.
   Hospice.
   Housing for the elderly or persons with disabilities.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Mortuary, funeral home, or crematorium.
   Multi-family dwelling of thirteen (13) or more units.
   Nursing or convalescent home.
   Off premises residential garage.
   Off street parking.
   Rooming or boarding house.
   Tour home.
   Tourist home.
   Wind conversion energy system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 20-22, 5-
20-2022)
16-5-6-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Detached garage.
   Fence.
   Garage sale, provided that not more than three (3) such sales shall be
allowed per premises per calendar year and not more than three (3) consecutive
days per sale.
   Home based business.
   Keeping of hens for egg production.
   Noncommercial garden, greenhouse or nursery.
   Off street parking and storage of vehicles.
   Satellite receiving dish.
   Solar collector (freestanding arrays are limited to not more than 100
aggregate square feet and 10 feet in height).
   Sport, recreation, or outdoor cooking equipment.
   Storage building.
   Tennis court, swimming pool or similar permanent facility.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 47-14,
7-21-2014; Ord. 54-15, 8-17-2015)
16-5-6-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-6-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title, except for properties located within
the Jackson Park and Cathedral Historic Districts where off-street parking is
not required. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 9-24, 4-15-2024)
16-5-6-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-6-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
R-                   Minimum  Maximum  Setbacks
4           Minimum  Lot      Lot      Front           Minimum Minimum Maximum
Residential Lot Area Frontage Coverage Minimum Maximum Side    Rear    Height
R-           Minimum Minimum  Maximum  Setbacks
4            Lot     Lot      Lot      Front           Minimum Minimum  Maximum
Residential  Area    Frontage Coverage Minimum Maximum Side    Rear     Height

Permitted                                                         
uses:
Multi-family 2,000
dwelling (12 sq.     50 ft.   40%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.1  20 ft.   40 ft.
du maximum)  ft./du
Place of
religious    20,000
exercise or  sq. ft. 100 ft.  40%      20 ft.  -       20 ft.  20 ft.   75 ft.2
assembly,
school
Single-
family       5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.  50 ft.  4 ft.   20 ft.   30 ft.
detached     sq. ft.
dwelling
Townhouse    1,600   16 ft./                           0/
(12 du       sq.     du       40%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.1  20/0 ft. 40 ft.
maximum)     ft./du
Two-family   5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.  50 ft.  4 ft.   20 ft.   30 ft.
dwelling     sq. ft.
Conditional                                                       
uses:
Bed and      5,000
breakfast    sq. ft. 50 ft.   40%      20 ft.  50 ft.  4 ft.   20 ft.   30 ft.
home
Bed and      5,000
breakfast    sq. ft. 50 ft.   40%      20 ft.  50 ft.  4 ft.   20 ft.   30 ft.
inn
Group home   5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.1  20 ft.   40 ft.
             sq. ft.
Hospice      5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.1  20 ft.   40 ft.
             sq. ft.
Housing for  20,000
the elderly  sq. ft. 100 ft.  40%      20 ft.  -       20 ft.  20 ft.   40 ft.
or disabled
Licensed
adult day
services,    5,000   50 ft.   40%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.1  20 ft.   40 ft.
licensed     sq. ft.
childcare
center
Mortuary,
funeral home 20,000  100 ft.  40%      20 ft.  -       20 ft.  20 ft.   40 ft.
or           sq. ft.
crematorium
Nursing or   20,000
convalescent sq. ft. 100 ft.  40%      20 ft.  -       20 ft.  20 ft.   40 ft.
home
Off premises
residential  -       -        -        20 ft.  -       3 ft.   6 ft.    15 ft.
garage
Rooming or   5,000
boarding     sq. ft. 50 ft.   40%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.1  20 ft.   40 ft.
house
 
Notes:
   1.    Plus 1 additional foot per floor above the second floor.
   2.    May be erected to a height not exceeding 75 feet; provided, that such
buildings shall provide at least 1 additional foot of yard space on all sides
for each additional foot by which such building exceeds the maximum height
limit of the district in which it is located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4266.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-7: OR OFFICE RESIDENTIAL:
The OR district is intended to serve as a transition zone between commercial
and single- and two-family residential areas permitting adaptive reuse of
existing building stock, which will normally be residential in character. This
OR district is not intended to have any application in undeveloped or newly
developing areas of the city or on land made vacant through intentional
demolition. Development standards remain flexible to allow conservation and
reuse of existing buildings. This district should be located in areas abutting
arterial and/or collector streets which are, because of location and trends,
suitable for development of low intensity office uses, and high intensity
residential uses. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-7-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the OR district:
   Art gallery, museum or library.
   Artist studio.
   Community gardens.
   General office.
   Hospice.
   Housing for the elderly or persons with disabilities.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Maternity group home.
   Medical office.
   Mortuary or funeral home.
   Multi-family dwelling.
   Nursing or convalescent home.
   Parking structure.
   Place of religious exercise or religious assembly.
   Public, private, or parochial school approved by state of Iowa (K - 12).
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Registered child development home.
   School of private instruction.
   Single- or two-family dwelling unit within an existing structure only.
   Townhouse (2 or more laterally attached units). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009;
amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-16-2019; Ord. 19-20, 5-18-2020; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021; Ord.
49-23, 11-20-2024)
16-5-7-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses are permitted in the OR district, subject to the
provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Accessory dwelling unit.
   Bed and breakfast home.
   Bed and breakfast inn.
   Group home.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Off premises residential garage.
   Off street parking.
   Photographic studio.
   Private club.
   Rooming or boarding house.
   Tour home.
   Tourist home.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-
16-2019; Ord. 20-22, 5-20-2022)
16-5-7-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Crematorium accessory to a mortuary or funeral home.
   Detached garage.
   Fence.
   Garage sale, provided that not more than three (3) such sales shall be
allowed per premises per calendar year and not more than three (3) consecutive
days per sale.
   Home based business.
   Noncommercial garden, greenhouse or nursery.
   Off street parking and storage of vehicles.
   Satellite receiving dish.
   Solar collector (freestanding arrays are limited to not more than 100
aggregate square feet and 10 feet in height).
   Sport, recreation, or outdoor cooking equipment.
   Storage building.
   Tennis court, swimming pool or similar permanent facility.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-15,
8-17-2015)
16-5-7-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-7-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title, except for properties located within
the Jackson Park and Cathedral Historic Districts where off-street parking is
not required.. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 9-24, 4-15-2024)
16-5-7-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-7-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
                              Maximum   Setbacks
OR Office   Minimum  Minimum  Lot       Front                           Maximum
Residential Lot Area Lot      Coverage                  Minimum Minimum Height
                     Frontage (Lot      Minimum Maximum Side    Rear
                              Area)
                              Maximum  Setbacks
OR Office    Minimum Minimum  Lot      Front                            Maximum
Residential  Lot     Lot      Coverage                 Minimum Minimum  Height
             Area    Frontage (Lot     Minimum Maximum Side    Rear
                              Area)
Permitted                                                         
uses:
General      -       -        50%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
office
Hospice      5,000   50 ft.   50%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
             sq. ft.
Housing for  10,000
the elderly  sq. ft. -        -        -       -       3 ft.1  10 ft.   40 ft.
or disabled
Medical      -       -        50%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
office
Mortuary,    -       -        50%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.1  10 ft.   40 ft.
funeral home
Multi-family 1,200
dwelling     sq.     50 ft.   50%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
             ft./du
Nursing or   10,000
convalescent sq. ft. 100 ft.  50%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.1  10 ft.   40 ft.
home
Place of
religious    20,000
exercise or  sq. ft. 100 ft.  50%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.   10 ft.   75 ft.2
assembly,
school
Single-
family       5,000   50 ft.   50%      20 ft.  50 ft.  3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
detached     sq. ft.
dwelling
             1,200   16 ft./
Townhouse    sq.     du       50%      20 ft.  -       3/0 ft. 10/0 ft. 40 ft.
             ft./du
Two-family   5,000   50 ft.   50%      20 ft.  50 ft.  3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
dwelling     sq. ft.
All other
permitted    -       -        50%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
uses
Conditional                                                       
uses:
Bed and      5,000
breakfast    sq. ft. 50 ft.   50%      20 ft.  50 ft.  3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
home
Bed and
breakfast    -       -        50%      20 ft.  50 ft.  3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
inn
Group home   5,000   50 ft.   50%      -       -       3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
             sq. ft.
Licensed
adult day
services,    5,000   50 ft.   50%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
licensed     sq. ft.
childcare
center
Off premises
residential  -       -        50%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.   10 ft.   15 ft.
garage
Photographic -       -        50%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
studio
Private club -       -        50%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
Rooming or   5,000
boarding     sq. ft. 50 ft.   50%      20 ft.  -       3 ft.   10 ft.   40 ft.
house
 
Notes:
   1.    When abutting a residential district, a 6 foot side setback is
required.
   2.    May be erected to a height not exceeding 75 feet; provided, that such
buildings shall provide at least 1 additional foot of yard space on all sides
for each additional foot by which such building exceeds the maximum height
limit of the district in which it is located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4268.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-8: OS OFFICE SERVICE:
The OS district is intended to encourage and permit professional office uses in
newly developing areas of the city, and is intended to be used as a transition
between commercial and residential area. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-8-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the OS district:
   Art gallery, museum, or library.
   Artist studio.
   Barber or beauty shop.
   Dental or medical lab.
   General office.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Maternity group home.
   Medical office.
   Parking structure.
   Photographic studio.
   Place of religious exercise or assembly.
   Public, private, or parochial school approved by the state of Iowa (K - 12).
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Registered child development home.
   Residential use above the first floor only.
   School of private instruction. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-
16-2019; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021; Ord. 49-23, 11-20-2023)
16-5-8-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the OS district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Licensed adult day services.
   Off street parking.
   Private club.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-
16-2019)
16-5-8-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use it serves.
Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-8-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-8-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title, except for properties located within
the Jackson Park and Cathedral Historic Districts where off-street parking is
not required. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 9-24, 4-15-2024)
16-5-8-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-8-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
                   Minimum  Maximum Lot Setbacks
OS Office Minimum  Lot      Coverage    Front           Minimum Minimum Maximum
Service   Lot Area Frontage (Lot Area)  Minimum Maximum Side1   Rear2   Height
                              Maximum   Setbacks
OS Office   Minimum  Minimum  Lot       Front                           Maximum
Service     Lot Area Lot      Coverage                  Minimum Minimum Height
                     Frontage (Lot      Minimum Maximum Side1   Rear2
                              Area)
Permitted                                                         
uses:
All
permitted   -        -        -         20 ft.  -       -       -       75 ft.
uses
Conditional                                                       
uses:
Licensed
adult day
services,   3,500    50 ft.   50%       20 ft.  -       -       -       -
licensed    sq. ft.
childcare
center
All other
conditional -        -        -         20 ft.  -       -       -       75 ft.
uses
 
Notes:
   1.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
side setback is required.
   2.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
rear setback is required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4270.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-9: OC OFFICE COMMERCIAL:
The OC district is intended to encourage and permit the establishment of
commercial business uses in mixed use specialty areas. This district will
generally be located in areas which have developed, or are appropriate to
develop, as limited retail districts. This district should also be located in
areas adjacent to established commercial districts, in historic and/or
architecturally significant areas where the adaptive reuse of existing
buildings is encouraged, in areas of particular tourist interest and along
arterial and/or collector streets which are suitable for more intensive
commercial development. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-9-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the OC district:
   Art gallery, museum or library.
   Artist studio.
   Bakery (retail only).
   Barber or beauty shop.
   General office.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Maternity group home.
   Medical office.
   Multi-family dwelling.
   Parking structure.
   Photographic studio.
   Place of religious exercise or assembly.
   Registered child development home.
   Retail sales and service.
   School of private instruction.
   Single-family detached dwelling.
   Two-family dwelling.
   Any other specialty retail use of a similar nature and intensity. (Ord. 52-
09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-16-2019; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021; Ord. 49-23,
11-20-2023)
16-5-9-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the OC district subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Accessory dwelling unit.
   Bar or tavern.
   Bed and breakfast home.
   Bed and breakfast inn.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Off street parking.
   Private club.
   Restaurant.
   Tour home.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-
16-2019; Ord. 20-22, 5-20-2022)
16-5-9-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Detached garage.
   Fence.
   Garage sale, provided that not more than three (3) such sales shall be
allowed per premises per calendar year and not more than three (3) consecutive
days per sale.
   Home based business.
   Noncommercial garden, greenhouse or nursery.
   Off street parking of vehicles.
   Satellite receiving dish.
   Solar collector (freestanding arrays are limited to not more than 100
aggregate square feet and 10 feet in height).
   Sport, recreation or outdoor cooking equipment.
   Storage building.
   Tennis court, swimming pool or similar permanent facility.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-15,
8-17-2015)
16-5-9-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-9-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title, except that a twenty five percent (25%)
reduction shall be allowed in the OC district for both permitted and
conditional uses, and except for properties located within the Jackson Park and
Cathedral Historic Districts where off-street parking is not required. (Ord.
52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 9-24, 4-15-2024)
16-5-9-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-9-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
OC Office  Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Maximum Lot Setbacks                Maximum
Commercial Area        Frontage    Coverage    Minimum Minimum Minimum Height
                                   (Lot Area)  Front   Side    Rear
OC Office   Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Maximum Lot Setbacks                Maximum
Commercial  Area        Frontage    Coverage    Minimum Minimum Minimum Height
                                    (Lot Area)  Front   Side    Rear
Permitted                                                          
uses:
Multi-      1,200 sq.
family      ft./du      -           50%         10 ft.  3 ft.1  20 ft.  40 ft.
dwelling
Place of
religious   20,000 sq.  100 ft.     50%         10 ft.  10 ft.  20 ft.  75 ft.2
exercise or ft.
assembly
Single-
family      5,000 sq.   50 ft.      50%         10 ft.  3 ft.   20 ft.  40 ft.
detached    ft.
dwelling
Two-family  5,000 sq.   50 ft.      50%         10 ft.  3 ft.   20 ft.  40 ft.
dwelling    ft.
All other
permitted   -           -           50%         10 ft.  3 ft.1  20 ft.  40 ft.
uses
Conditional                                                        
uses:
Bed and
breakfast   -           -           50%         10 ft.  3 ft.   20 ft.  40 ft.
home
Bed and
breakfast   -           -           50%         10 ft.  3 ft.   20 ft.  40 ft.
inn
Off street  -           -           -           -       -       -       -
parking lot
Parking     -           -           -           10 ft.  3 ft.   3 ft.   40 ft.
structure
All other
conditional -           -           50%         10 ft.  3 ft.1  20 ft.  40 ft.
uses
 
Notes:
   1.    Plus 1 additional foot per floor above the second floor.
   2.    May be erected to a height not exceeding 75 feet; provided, that such
buildings shall provide at least 1 additional foot of yard space on all sides
for each additional foot by which such building exceeds the maximum height
limit of the district in which it is located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4272.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-10: C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL:
The C-1 district is intended to be established on a very limited basis, to
provide individual parcels for commercial and residential uses in older
buildings in the city's established neighborhoods, while maintaining
neighborhood character and fostering opportunities for affordable housing.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-10-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the C-1 district:
   Bakery (retail only).
   Barber or beauty shop.
   Flower shop, garden store, or commercial greenhouse.
   General office.
   Grocery or drug store (maximum 3,500 square feet).
   Laundromat.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Maternity group home.
   Multi-family dwelling (maximum 6 dwelling units).
   Place of religious exercise or assembly.
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Registered child development home.
   Retail sales and service.
   School of private instruction.
   Shoe repair.
   Single-family detached dwelling.
   Townhouse (maximum 6 dwelling units).
   Two-family dwelling (duplex). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-
16-2019; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021; Ord. 49-23, 11-20-2023)
16-5-10-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the C-1 district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Accessory dwelling unit.
   Gas station (not including service station).
   Indoor restaurant.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Medical office.
   Restaurant, carryout.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-
16-2019; Ord. 20-22, 5-20-2022; Ord. 22-25, 6-16-2025)
16-5-10-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses may be permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use it
serves.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-10-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-10-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title, except for properties located within
the Jackson Park and Cathedral Historic Districts where off-street parking is
not required. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 9-24, 4-15-2024)
16-5-10-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-10-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
 
C-                             Maximum  Setbacks
1            Minimum  Minimum  Lot      Front                           Maximum
Neighborhood Lot Area Lot      Coverage                 Minimum Minimum Height
Commercial            Frontage (Lot     Minimum Maximum Side2   Rear3
                               Area)
All uses     -        -        -        10 ft.1 -       -       -       30 ft.
 
Notes:
   1.    Minimum 20 feet for garages facing a street.
   2.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 6 foot
side setback is required.
   3.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
rear setback is required.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-10-8: STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL USES:
The following standards shall apply to all nonresidential permitted and
conditional uses in the C-1 district:
   A.   The use shall be established in an existing structure that was designed
for public, quasi-public, commercial, office, institutional, or industrial use.
   B.   The structure was never converted to a residential use after the
effective date hereof.
   C.   The use shall be conducted entirely within the structure.
   D.   There shall be no outdoor storage of equipment or materials on the
property or adjacent public right of way.
   E.   All vehicles in excess of two (2), used in conjunction with the use
shall be stored within a building when they remain on the property overnight or
during periods of nonuse, unless an alternate parking location is provided in a
properly zoned area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4274.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-11: C-2 NEIGHBORHOOD SHOPPING CENTER:
The C-2 district is intended to ensure that the size of the commercial center,
the nature of uses permitted and the locational characteristics are such that
the grouping of such uses will not adversely affect surrounding residences and
do not detract from the residential purpose and character of the surrounding
neighborhoods. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-11-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the C-2 district:
   Appliance sales or service.
   Artist studio.
   Automated gas station.
   Bank, savings and loan, or credit union.
   Barber or beauty shop.
   Commercial greenhouse.
   Furniture or home furnishing sales.
   Furniture upholstery or repair.
   Gas station.
   General office.
   Golf course.
   Indoor restaurant.
   Laundry, dry cleaner, or laundromat.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Maternity group home.
   Medical office.
   Neighborhood shopping center.
   Parks, public or private, and similar natural recreation areas.
   Photographic studio.
   Place of religious exercise or assembly.
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Registered child development home.
   Residential use above the first floor only.
   Restaurant, carryout.
   Retail sales and service.
   School of private instruction. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-10, 9-
20-2010; Ord. 17-13, 3-18-2013; Ord. 54-19, 12-16-2019; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021;
Ord. 3-22, 1-18-2022; Ord. 49-23,
16-5-11-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the C-2 district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Animal hospital or clinic.
   Car wash, self-service.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Passenger transfer facility.
   Pet daycare or grooming.
   Restaurant, drive-in.
   Tattoo parlor.
   Wind energy conversion systems. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19,
12-16-2019; Ord. 22-25, 6-16-2025)
16-5-11-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7  of this title:
   Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use it
serves.
   Off-premise parking lot.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 44-24,
7-15-2024)
16-5-11-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-11-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title, except for properties located within
the Jackson Park and Cathedral Historic Districts where off-street parking is
not required. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 9-24, 4-15-2024)
16-5-11-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-11-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
 
C-                             Maximum  Setbacks
2            Minimum  Minimum  Lot      Front                           Maximum
Neighborhood Lot Area Lot      Coverage                 Minimum Minimum Height
Shopping              Frontage (Lot     Minimum Maximum Side2   Rear3
Center                         Area)
All uses     -        -        -        10 ft.1 -       -       -       30 ft.
 
Notes:
   1.    Minimum 20 feet for garages facing a street.
   2.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
side setback is required.
   3.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
rear setback is required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4276.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-12: C-2A MIXED USE NEIGHBORHOOD:
The C-2A district is intended to provide locations for small mixed use and
commercial developments that are separated by at least one-fourth (1/4) mile,
and contain less than two (2) acres in total developed area that serve one or
more neighborhoods. The C-2A district is intended to be compatible with and
serve surrounding residential areas by providing the goods and services for
daily living. The C-2A district is intended to reduce the need for vehicular
trips and provide a pedestrian friendly walkable development. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009)
16-5-12-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the C-2A district:
   Bank, savings and loan, or credit union.
   Barber or beauty shop.
   Commercial greenhouse.
   General office.
   Grocery store (less than 30,000 square feet).
   Indoor restaurant (less than 100 seats).
   Laundromat.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Maternity group home.
   Place of religious exercise or assembly.
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Registered child development home.
   Residential use located entirely above the first floor only.
   Retail sales and service (less than 3,500 square feet per business).
   School of private instruction. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-10, 9-
20-2010; Ord. 54-19, 12-16-2019; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021; Ord. 3-22, 1-18-2022;
Ord. 49-23, 11-20-2023)
16-5-12-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the C-2A district, subject
to the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Animal hospital or clinic.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Pet daycare or grooming.
   Wind energy conversion systems. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19,
12-16-2019)
16-5-12-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use it serves.
Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-12-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-12-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-12-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-12-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
 
                               Maximum  Setbacks
C-2A Mixed   Minimum  Minimum  Lot      Front                           Maximum
Use          Lot Area Lot      Coverage                 Minimum Minimum Height
Neighborhood          Frontage (Lot     Minimum Maximum Side2   Rear3
                               Area)
All uses     -        -        -        10 ft.1 -       -       -       30 ft.
 
Notes:
   1.    Minimum 20 feet for garages facing a street.
   2.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
side setback is required.
   3.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
rear setback is required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4278.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-13: C-3 GENERAL COMMERCIAL:
The C-3 district is intended to provide locations for commercial uses which are
designed to serve the motoring public or uses requiring highway or arterial
locations. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-13-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the C-3 district:
   Agricultural supply sales.
   Animal hospital or clinic.
   Artist studio.
   Auditorium or assembly hall.
   Bakery (wholesale/commercial).
   Bank, savings and loan, or credit union.
   Bar or tavern.
   Barber or beauty shop.
   Business services.
   Car wash, full service.
   Car wash, self-service.
   Commercial greenhouse.
   Construction supply sales or service.
   Contractor shop or yard.
   Dental or medical lab.
   Department store (60,000 square feet maximum).
   Drive-up automated bank teller.
   Farm implement sales or service.
   Furniture upholstery or repair.
   Gas station.
   General office.
   Golf course.
   Grocery store.
   Hotel.
   Indoor amusement arcade.
   Indoor recreation facility.
   Indoor restaurant.
   Indoor theater.
   Laundry, dry cleaner, or laundromat.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Maternity group home.
   Medical office.
   Miniwarehouse.
   Mobile or manufactured home sales or service.
   Mortuary or funeral home.
   Moving or storage facility.
   Museum or library.
   Neighborhood shopping center.
   Parking structure.
   Parks, public or private, and similar natural recreation areas.
   Pet daycare or grooming.
   Photographic studio.
   Place of religious exercise or assembly.
   Printing or publishing.
   Private club.
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Registered child development home.
   Residential use above the first floor only.
   Restaurant, drive-in or carryout.
   Retail sales and service.
   School of private instruction.
   Service station.
   Tattoo parlor.
   Tour home.
   Vehicle body shop.
   Vehicle sales or rental.
   Vehicle service or repair.
   Vending or game machine sales or service.
   Wholesale sales or distributor. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 17-13, 3-
18-2013; Ord. 54-19, 12-16-2019; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021; Ord. 3-22, 1-18-2022;
Ord. 44-23, 9-18-2023; Ord. 49-23, 11-20-2023)
16-5-13-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the C-3 district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Licensed adult day services.
   Outdoor recreation or outdoor amusement center.
   Passenger transfer facility.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-
16-2019)
16-5-13-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7  of this title:
   Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use it
serves.
   Crematorium accessory to a mortuary or funeral home.
   Off-premise parking lot.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 44-24,
7-15-2024)
16-5-13-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-13-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title, except for properties located within
the Jackson Park and Cathedral Historic Districts where off-street parking is
not required. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 9-24, 4-15-2024)
16-5-13-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-13-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
 
                              Maximum   Setbacks
C-         Minimum   Minimum  Lot       Front                           Maximum
3 General  Lot Area  Lot      Coverage                  Minimum Minimum Height
Commercial           Frontage (Lot      Minimum Maximum Side1   Rear2
                              Area)
Licensed
adult day
services,  5,000 sq. 50 ft.   50%       20 ft.  -       -       -       40 ft.
licensed   ft.
childcare
center
Vehicle    20,000    -        -         20 ft.  -       -       -       40 ft.
sales      sq. ft.
All other  -         -        -         20 ft.  -       -       -       40 ft.
uses
 
Notes:
   1.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
side setback is required.
   2.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
rear setback is required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4280.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-14: C-4 DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL:
The C-4 district is intended to provide locations in the downtown commercial
areas of the city for a large variety of uses. The C-4 district is not intended
to have any application in undeveloped or newly developing areas of the city.
The regulations for this district are designed to encourage the maintenance of
existing uses and the private reinvestment and redevelopment of new uses. (Ord.
52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-14-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the C-4 district:
   Agricultural supply sales.
   Animal hospital or clinic.
   Appliance sales or service.
   Art gallery, museum, or library.
   Artist studio.
   Auditorium or assembly hall.
   Automated gas station.
   Bakery (wholesale/commercial).
   Banks, savings and loan, or credit union.
   Bar or tavern.
   Barber or beauty shop.
   Business services.
   Catalog center.
   Commercial greenhouse.
   Construction supply sales or service.
   Contractor shop or yard.
   Dental or medical lab.
   Department store.
   Furniture or home furnishing sales.
   Furniture upholstery or repair.
   Gas station.
   General office.
   Grocery store.
   Hotel.
   Housing for the elderly or persons with disabilities.
   Indoor amusement center.
   Indoor recreation facility.
   Indoor restaurant.
   Indoor theater.
   Laundry, dry cleaner, or laundromat.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Maternity group home.
   Medical office.
   Mini-warehouse below the first floor only.
   Mortuary or funeral home.
   Neighborhood shopping center.
   Parking structure.
   Pet daycare or grooming.
   Photographic studio.
   Place of religious exercise or assembly.
   Printing or publishing.
   Private club.
   Public or private park or similar natural recreation area.
   Public, private or parochial school approved by the state of Iowa (K - 12).
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Registered child development home.
   Residential use above the first floor only.
   Restaurant, carryout.
   Retail sales or service.
   School of private instruction.
   Service station.
   Shoe repair.
   Supermarket.
   Tailor or alteration shop.
   Tattoo parlor.
   Tour home.
   Upholstery shop.
   Vending or game machine sales or service.
   Wholesale sales or distributor.  (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 41-16,
8-15-2016; Ord. 54-19, 12-16-2019; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021; Ord. 3-22, 1-18-2022;
Ord. 49-23, 11-20-2023; Ord. 1-24, 1-16-2024; Ord. 22-25, 6-16-2025)
16-5-14-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the C-4 district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Car wash.
   Drive-up automated bank teller.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Off street parking.
   Passenger transfer facility.
   Restaurant, drive-in.
   Vehicle body shop.
   Vehicle sales or rental.
   Vehicle service or repair.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-
16-2019; Ord. 44-23, 9-18-2023; Ord. 22-25, 6-16-2025)
16-5-14-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use it
serves.
   Crematorium accessory to a mortuary or funeral home.
   Drive-up automated bank teller.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-14-4: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-14-5: PARKING:
Off street parking is not required. New surface off street parking lots are
prohibited unless approved by the city council. Underground and aboveground
parking garages are allowed provided they are an integral part of a new or
existing building. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-14-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-14-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
C-         Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Maximum Lot Setbacks                Maximum
4 Downtown Area        Frontage    Coverage    Minimum Minimum Minimum Height
Commercial                         (Lot Area)  Front   Side1   Rear2
C-          Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Maximum Lot Setbacks                Maximum
4 Downtown  Area        Frontage    Coverage    Minimum Minimum Minimum Height
Commercial                          (Lot Area)  Front   Side1   Rear2
Permitted                                                          
uses:
Residential
above first -           -           -           -       -       -       75 ft.
floor
Vehicle     20,000 sq.  -           -           -       -       -       75 ft.
sales       ft.
All other
permitted   -           -           -           -       -       -       75 ft.
uses
Conditional                                                        
uses:
Licensed
adult day
services,   3,500 sq.   50 ft.      50%         -       -       -       75 ft.
licensed    ft.
childcare
center
All other
conditional -           -           -           10 ft.  -       -       75 ft.
uses
 
Notes:
   1.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 6 foot
side setback is required.
   2.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
rear setback is required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4282.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-15: C-5 CENTRAL BUSINESS:
The C-5 district is intended to provide locations for a wide variety of uses.
The district is intended to be applied to a very limited downtown business
core. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-15-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the C-5 district:
   Appliance sales or service.
   Art gallery, museum, or library.
   Artist studio.
   Auditorium or assembly hall.
   Automated gas station.
   Bank, savings and loan, or credit union.
   Bar or tavern.
   Barber or beauty shop.
   Business services.
   Carryout restaurant (not including drive-in).
   Catalog center.
   Convention center.
   Dental or medical lab.
   Department store.
   Furniture or home furnishing sales.
   Gas station.
   General office.
   Hotel.
   Housing for the elderly or persons with disabilities.
   Indoor amusement center.
   Indoor recreation facility.
   Indoor restaurant.
   Indoor theater.
   Laundry or dry cleaner.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Maternity group home.
   Medical office or clinic.
   Mini-warehouse below the first floor only.
   Parking structure.
   Photographic studio.
   Places of religious exercise or assembly.
   Printing or publishing.
   Private club.
   Public or private park or similar natural recreation area.
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Regional shopping center.
   Registered child development home.
   Residential use above the first floor only.
   Retail sales or service.
   School of private instruction.
   Service station.
   Shoe repair.
   Sport arena.
   Supermarket.
   Tailor or alteration shop.
   Tattoo parlor. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 41-16, 8-15-2016; Ord. 54-
19, 12-16-2019; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021; Ord. 49-23, 11-20-2023; Ord. 1-24, 1-16-
2024)
16-5-15-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the C-5 district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Licensed adult day services.
   Passenger transfer facility.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-
16-2019)
16-5-15-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use it
serves.
   Drive-up automated bank teller. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-15-4: TEMPORARY USES:
The following uses may be permitted as temporary uses in the C-5 district in
conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title:
   Any use listed as a permitted use within the district.
   Temporary surface parking lot may be allowed as part of a construction or
redevelopment project.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-15-5: PARKING:
Off street parking is not required. New surface off street parking lots are
prohibited unless approved by the city council. Underground and aboveground
parking garages are allowed provided they are an integral part of a new or
existing building. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-15-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-15-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
 
                    Minimum  Maximum    Setbacks
C-         Minimum  Lot      Lot        Front           Minimum Minimum Maximum
5 Business Lot Area Frontage Coverage   Minimum Maximum Side    Rear1   Height
                             (Lot Area)
All uses   -        -        -          -       -       -       -       -
 
Note:
   1.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
rear setback is required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4284.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-16: CS COMMERCIAL SERVICE AND WHOLESALE:
The CS district is intended to provide locations for a variety of business
services, office uses, limited industrial activity and major wholesale
operations. The CS district uses are primarily characterized by large storage
space requirements, high volume truck traffic and low volume customer traffic.
It is intended that the CS district is one that provides a transitional zone
that can be used between industrial and commercial uses and in cases where
topography establishes a transitional area due to physical limitations between
industrial and higher density residential development. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-16-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the CS district:
   Agricultural supply sales.
   Animal hospital or clinic.
   Appliance sales or service.
   Auto part sales or supply.
   Business services.
   Commercial greenhouse.
   Construction supply sales or service.
   Contractor shop or yard.
   Dental or medical lab.
   Farm implement sales or service.
   Freight transfer facility.
   Fuel or ice dealer.
   Furniture or home furnishing sales.
   Furniture upholstery or repair.
   General office.
   Kennel.
   Landscaping services (not including retail sales as primary use).
   Licensed childcare center.
   Lumberyard or building material sales.
   Mail order house.
   Maternity group home.
   Miniwarehousing.
   Moving or storage facility.
   Off street parking lot.
   Office supply.
   Passenger transfer facility.
   Pet daycare or grooming.
   Printing or publishing.
   Processing or assembly.
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Refrigeration equipment sales or service.
   Registered child development home.
   Resource recovery/recycling center (indoor only).
   Upholstery shop.
   Vehicle body shop.
   Vehicle sales or rental.
   Vehicle service or repair.
   Vending or game machine sales or service.
   Wholesale sales or distributor. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19,
12-16-2019; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021; Ord. 3-22, 1-18-2022; Ord. 49-23, 11-20-
2023)
16-5-16-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the CS district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Licensed adult day services.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-
16-2019)
16-5-16-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use it
serves.
   Wind energy turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-16-4: TEMPORARY USES:
The following uses shall be permitted as temporary uses in the CS district in
conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title:
   Any use listed as a permitted use within the district. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009)
16-5-16-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-16-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-16-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
 
CS                           Maximum    Setbacks
Commercial Minimum  Minimum  Lot        Front                           Maximum
Service    Lot Area Lot      Coverage                   Minimum Minimum Height
And                 Frontage (Lot Area) Minimum Maximum Side1   Rear2
Wholesale
Vehicle    20,000   -        -          20 ft.  -       -       -       40 ft.
sales      sq. ft.
All other  -        -        -          20 ft.  -       -       -       40 ft.
uses
 
Notes:
   1.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
side setback is required.
   2.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
rear setback is required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4286.gif]
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-17: CR COMMERCIAL RECREATION:
The CR district is intended to provide for commercial recreation facilities,
together with their supporting uses, which generally require large tracts of
land and/or generate substantial volumes of traffic. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-17-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the CR district:
   Art gallery, museum or library.
   Athletic field, stadium or sport arena.
   Auditorium or assembly hall.
   Bowling alley.
   Campground or recreational vehicle park.
   Car wash, self-service.
   Convention center.
   Dog and horse racing or track operation.
   Excursion boat or boat services.
   Gambling facility licensed by the state of Iowa.
   Golf course.
   Health, sport, recreation or athletic club or organization.
   Hotel.
   Indoor amusement center.
   Indoor recreation facility.
   Indoor restaurant.
   Indoor theater.
   Laundry, dry cleaner or laundromat.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Marine vehicle body shop.
   Marine vehicle sales or rental.
   Marine vehicle service or repair.
   Maternity group home.
   Off street parking lot.
   Outdoor recreation.
   Parking structure.
   Parks, public or private, and similar natural recreation areas.
   Passenger transfer facility.
   Place of religious exercise or assembly.
   Pleasure craft harbor.
   Private club.
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Registered child development home.
   Residential use above the first floor only.
   Restaurant, carryout.
   Retail sales and service.
   Tour home. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 49-10, 8-16-2010; Ord. 17-13,
3-18-2013; Ord. 54-19, 12-16-2019; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021; Ord. 49-23, 11-20-
2023; Ord. 22-25, 6-16-2025)
16-5-17-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the CR district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Bar or tavern.
   Drive-up automated bank teller.
   Gas station.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Restaurant, drive-in.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-
16-2019; Ord. 22-25, 6-16-2025)
16-5-17-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use it
serves.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-17-4: TEMPORARY USES:
The following uses shall be permitted as temporary uses in the CR district in
conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title:
   Any use listed as a permitted use within the district. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009)
16-5-17-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-17-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-17-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
 
CR                  Minimum  Maximum    Setbacks
Commercial Minimum  Lot      Lot        Front           Minimum Minimum Maximum
Recreation Lot Area Frontage Coverage   Minimum Maximum Side1   Rear2   Height
                             (Lot Area)
Bar or     -        -        -          20 ft.  -       -       -       40 ft.
tavern
Drive-in
or         -        -        -          20 ft.  -       -       -       40 ft.
carryout
restaurant
Gas        -        -        -          20 ft.  -       -       -       40 ft.
station
All other  -        -        -          20 ft.  -       -       -       100 ft.
uses
 
Notes:
   1.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
side setback is required.
   2.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
rear setback is required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4288.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-18: LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL:
The LI district is intended to provide locations for a variety of uses
associated primarily in the conduct of light manufacturing, assembling and
fabrication, warehousing, wholesaling and commercial service operations that
require adequate accessibility to transportation facilities. The district is
also intended to provide locations for a limited amount of commercial
development that will serve employees of surrounding industrial uses. (Ord. 52-
09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-18-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the LI district:
   Agricultural supply sales.
   Animal hospital or clinic.
   Auto part sales.
   Automated gas station.
   Bakery (wholesale/commercial).
   Bank, savings and loan, or credit union.
   Bar or tavern.
   Business services.
   Car wash, full service.
   Car wash, self-service.
   Cold storage or locker plant.
   Construction supply sales or service.
   Contractor shop or yard.
   Dental or medical lab.
   Drive-up automated bank teller.
   Farm implement sales, service or repair.
   Freight transfer facility.
   Fuel or ice dealer.
   Furniture upholstery or repair.
   Gas station.
   General office.
   Grocery store.
   Indoor recreation facility.
   Indoor restaurant.
   Kennel.
   Laboratory for research or engineering.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Lumberyard or building materials sales.
   Mail order house.
   Manufacturing, secondary.
   Miniwarehousing.
   Mobile home sales.
   Moving or storage facility.
   Off street parking lot.
   Outdoor recreation facility.
   Parking structure.
   Passenger transfer facility.
   Pet daycare or grooming.
   Printing or publishing.
   Processing, packaging, or storing meat, dairy or food products, but not
including slaughterhouses or stockyards.
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Registered child development home.
   Resource recovery/recycling center (indoor only).
   Restaurant, drive-in or carryout.
   Service station.
   Tool, die, or pattern making.
   Upholstery shop.
   Vehicle body shop.
   Vehicle sales or rental.
   Vehicle service or repair.
   Vending or game machine sales or service.
   Warehousing or storage facility.
   Welding services.
   Wholesale sales or distributor. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19,
12-16-2019; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021)
16-5-18-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the LI district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Licensed adult day services.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Residential use.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 50-10, 8-
16-2010)
16-5-18-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use it
serves.
   Drive-up automated bank teller.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-18-4: TEMPORARY USES:
The following uses may be permitted as temporary uses in the LI district in
conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title:
Any use listed as a permitted use within the district. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-18-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-18-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-18-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
 
                    Minimum  Maximum    Setbacks
LI Light   Minimum  Lot      Lot        Front           Minimum Minimum Maximum
Industrial Lot Area Frontage Coverage   Minimum Maximum Side1   Rear2   Height
                             (Lot Area)
Vehicle    20,000   -        -          -       -       -       -       50 ft.
sales      sq. ft.
All other  -        -        -          -       -       -       -       50 ft.
uses
 
Notes:
   1.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
side setback is required.
   2.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
rear setback is required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4290.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-19: HI HEAVY INDUSTRIAL:
The HI district is intended to provide locations for industrial uses which by
their nature generate levels of smoke, dust, noise, odors, or other visual
impacts that render them incompatible with virtually all other land uses. The
district is also intended to provide locations for a limited amount of
commercial development that will serve employees of surrounding industrial
uses. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-19-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the HI district:
   Agricultural supply sales.
   Animal hospital or clinic.
   Auto part sales.
   Automated gas station.
   Bakery (wholesale/commercial).
   Bank, savings and loan, or credit union.
   Bar or tavern.
   Business services.
   Car wash, full service.
   Car wash, self-service.
   Cold storage or locker plant.
   Construction supply sales and service.
   Contractor shop or yard.
   Convenience store.
   Crematorium, reduction plant, foundry, forge or smelter.
   Dental or medical lab.
   Drive-up automated bank teller.
   Farm implement sales, service or repair.
   Freight transfer facility.
   Fuel or ice dealer.
   Furniture upholstery or repair.
   General office.
   Grain or barge terminal.
   Indoor recreation facility.
   Indoor restaurant.
   Junkyard or salvage yard.
   Kennel.
   Laboratory for research or engineering.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Lumberyard or building material sales.
   Mail order house.
   Manufacturing, primary.
   Manufacturing, secondary.
   Miniwarehousing.
   Mobile home sales.
   Moving or storage facility.
   Off street parking lot.
   Packaging, processing, or storing meat, dairy or food products.
   Parking structure.
   Passenger transfer facility.
   Pet daycare or grooming.
   Printing or publishing.
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Registered child development home.
   Resource recovery/recycling center (indoor only).
   Restaurant, drive-in or carryout.
   Sanitary landfill.
   Service station.
   Sewage treatment plant.
   Slaughterhouse or stockyard.
   Tool, die, or pattern making.
   Upholstery shop.
   Vehicle body shop.
   Vehicle sales or rental.
   Vehicle service and repair.
   Vending or game machine sales or service.
   Warehousing, packaging, distribution or storage facility.
   Welding services.
   Wholesale sales or distributor. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 63-10,
12-20-2010; Ord. 54-19, 12-16-2019; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021)
16-5-19-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the HI district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Licensed adult day services.
   Residential use.
   Retail sales and service.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19, 12-
16-2019)
16-5-19-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses are permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use it
serves.
   Drive-up automated bank teller.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-19-4: TEMPORARY USES:
The following uses may be permitted as temporary uses in the HI district in
conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title:
   Any use listed as a permitted use within the district. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009)
16-5-19-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-19-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-19-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
 
                    Minimum  Maximum    Setbacks
HI Heavy   Minimum  Lot      Lot        Front           Minimum Minimum Maximum
Industrial Lot Area Frontage Coverage   Minimum Maximum Side1   Rear2   Height
                             (Lot Area)
Vehicle    20,000   -        -          -       -       -       -       150 ft.
sales      sq. ft.
All other  -        -        -          -       -       -       -       150 ft.
uses
 
Notes:
   1.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
side setback is required.
   2.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
rear setback is required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4292.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-20: MHI MODIFIED HEAVY INDUSTRIAL:
The MHI district is intended to provide locations for most heavy industrial
uses, while also serving as a buffer for transitional and redeveloping areas,
particularly along the U.S. 61/151 freeway corridor, from the most intense
industrial uses which, by their nature, generate levels of smoke, dust, noise,
odors, or other visual impacts that render them incompatible with virtually all
other land uses. This district is also intended to provide locations for a
limited amount of commercial development that will serve employees of
surrounding industrial uses. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-20-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the MHI district:
   Agricultural supply sales.
   Animal hospital or clinic.
   Auto part supply.
   Automated gas station.
   Bakery (wholesale/commercial).
   Bank, savings and loan, or credit union.
   Bar or tavern.
   Business services.
   Car wash, full service.
   Car wash, self-service.
   Cold storage or locker plant.
   Construction supply sales or service.
   Contractor shop or yard.
   Convenience store.
   Dental or medical lab.
   Drive-up automated bank teller.
   Farm implement sales, service or repair.
   Freight transfer facility.
   Fuel or ice dealer.
   Furniture upholstery or repair.
   General office.
   Indoor recreation facility.
   Indoor restaurant.
   Kennel.
   Laboratory for research or engineering.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Lumberyard or building material sales.
   Mail order house.
   Manufacturing, primary.
   Manufacturing, secondary.
   Miniwarehousing.
   Mobile home sales.
   Moving or storage facility.
   Off street parking lot.
   Parking structure.
   Passenger transfer facility.
   Pet daycare or grooming.
   Printing or publishing.
   Processing, packaging, or storing meat, dairy or food products, but not
including slaughterhouse or stockyard.
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation.
   Registered child development home.
   Resource recovery/recycling center (indoor only).
   Restaurant, drive-in or carryout.
   Service station.
   Tool, die, or pattern making.
   Upholstery shop.
   Vehicle body shop.
   Vehicle sales or rental.
   Vehicle service or repair.
   Vending or game machine sales or service.
   Warehousing, packaging, distribution, or storage facility.
   Welding services.
   Wholesale sales or distributor. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 54-19,
12-16-2019; Ord. 30-21, 9-20-2021)
16-5-20-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the MHI district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Grain or barge terminal.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Residential use.
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 50-10, 8-
16-2010; Ord. 54-19, 12-16-2019)
16-5-20-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses shall be permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use it
serves.
   Drive-up automated bank teller.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-20-4: TEMPORARY USES:
The following uses shall be permitted as temporary uses in the MHI district in
conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title:
   Any use listed as a permitted use within the district. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009)
16-5-20-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-20-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-20-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
 
MHI                 Minimum  Maximum    Setbacks
Modified   Minimum  Lot      Lot        Front (Feet)    Minimum Minimum Maximum
Heavy      Lot Area Frontage Coverage   Minimum Maximum Side1   Rear2   Height
Industrial                   (Lot Area)
Vehicle    20,000   -        -          -       -       -       -       150 ft.
sales      sq. ft.
All other  -        -        -          -       -       -       -       150 ft.
uses
 
Notes:
   1.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
side setback is required.
   2.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, a 20 foot
rear setback is required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4294.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-21: AG AGRICULTURE:
The AG district is intended to conserve farmland for agricultural purposes and
to serve as a "holding" zone to prevent the premature development of large land
acreages and of recently annexed land for which the most appropriate future use
has not yet been determined. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-21-1: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses are prohibited in the AG district:
   Feedlot.
   Livestock confinement operation. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-21-2: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the AG district:
   Farming and agriculture, including the raising of field crops and livestock,
horticulture, forestry, animal husbandry, and similar farming activities.
   Noncommercial nursery.
   Railroad or public or quasi-public utility, including substation. (Ord. 52-
09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-21-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the AG district subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Kennel.
   Quarry.
   Retail sale of agricultural products.
   Wind energy conversion systems.
   Winery. (Ord. 35-15, 5-18-2015)
16-5-21-4: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses may be permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   Barbed wire or electric fences when used for livestock containment.
   Barn, shed or similar structure.
   Seasonal sale of produce grown on site.
   Single-family detached dwelling, provided it is located on a lot of ten (10)
acres or more and is incidental and subordinate to an active agricultural use
it serves.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-21-5: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary uses shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-21-6: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-21-7: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-21-8: BULK REGULATIONS:
Reserved for future use.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4296.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-22: ID INSTITUTIONAL:
   A.   The city council finds that several factors distinguish institutions
from other land use activities. The most significant feature of institutions is
their tendency to function as substantially separate communities within the
city. They maintain a large and definable resident population within a more or
less discrete geographical area. Typically, a broad range of essential living
services and facilities are provided by the institutions internally for both
its resident and transitory populations. A second common feature of
institutions is a primary educational, medical, religious, or charitable
purpose. This distinguishes them from commercial nursing homes, hotels,
boarding houses, and similar uses.
   B.   The ID institutional district is intended to address the particular
problems and characteristics of Dubuque's many institutional facilities. It is
the intent of this title that this district shall only be applied to facilities
possessing the characteristics of an institutional use set forth in this
section
16-5-22.
   C.   It is further the intent of this title that, because of the very
substantial impact institutional uses may have upon the surrounding community,
no expansion of an existing ID district will be permitted except in accordance
with the provisions of this section
16-5-22, which requires a conceptual development plan to be filed and approved
prior to institutional reclassification or substantial on premises expansions.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-22-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the ID district, subject to the limitations
found in this section
16-5-22:
   Business and secretarial school.
   Classroom, laboratory, lecture hall, auditorium or similar place of
institutional assembly.
   College or university.
   Existing private use or structure for which the R-3 district standards shall
apply.
   Farm, garden, nursery or greenhouse.
   Hospital.
   Library or museum.
   Medical facility and operation for the diagnosis, care, and treatment of
human health disorders, including examination or operating rooms, physical
therapy or X-ray facilities, psychiatric treatment, convalescent care, and
similar hospital related uses. This provision shall include separate doctors'
clinic, drugstore, or other medical facility not owned or operated by the
principal institution, but only where such facility is functionally related to
the institution and is included within the original institutional district
boundary or the approved preliminary development plan.
   Nursing or convalescent home for institutional residents or affiliates.
   Office for administrative personnel or other institutional employees or
affiliates.
   Outpatient care facility.
   Place of religious worship or exercise.
   Recreational or athletic facility for the primary use and benefit of
institutional residents or affiliates.
   Residential care facility.
   Seminary.
   Single-, two-, or multiple-family dwelling to house institutional residents
or affiliates.
   Vocational school. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-22-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses may be permitted in the ID institutional district, subject
to the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
   Wind energy conversion system. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-22-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses may be permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
   All other uses customarily incidental to the principal permitted use in
conjunction with which such accessory use is operated or maintained, but not to
include commercial uses outside a principal building.
   As an accessory use to a medical institution, and located entirely within a
principal building, a facility for the compounding, dispensing, or sale of
drugs or medicines, prosthetic devices, lotions and preparations, dental care
supplies, eyewear, bandages or dressings, and similar medical or health related
supplies.
   As an accessory use to an educational institution and located entirely
within a principal building, bookstore, or bar seating not more than seventy
five (75) persons at one time and located not closer than two hundred feet
(200') from the nearest residential or office residential district.
   Licensed adult day services.
   Licensed childcare center.
   Off street parking and loading.
   Restaurant or cafeteria; flower shop; gift shop; and candy, cigar, or
magazine stand; but only when operated and located entirely within a principal
building.
   Wind turbine (building mounted). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-22-4: DISTRICT ESTABLISHMENT, EXPANSION AND MODIFICATION:
   A.   Application And Conceptual Development Plan Submission: Application for
district establishment, expansion, or modification of new or existing
structures within an established ID district shall be filed, along with the
appropriate filing fee with the planning services department. The application
shall be accompanied by a conceptual development plan including:
      1.   Written Information:
         a.   Legal description and address of property;
         b.   Name, address and phone number(s) of the property owner(s);
         c.   Proposed construction and landscaping schedule indicating the
timing and sequence of each development activity;
         d.   Existing and proposed uses for all buildings or structures;
         e.   Total area of property and all structures, existing and proposed;
and
         f.   Present and proposed type and number of parking spaces on the
property.
      2.   Graphic Materials:
         a.   Complete property dimensions;
         b.   The location, grade, and dimensions of all present and/or
proposed streets or other paved surfaces and engineering cross sections of
proposed new curbs and pavement;
         c.   Proposed parking and traffic circulation plan, if applicable,
showing location and dimensions of parking stalls, dividers, planters or
similar permanent improvements; perimeter screening treatment, including
landscaping, etc.;
         d.   Location and dimensions of all buildings or major structures,
both proposed and existing, showing exterior dimensions, number and area of
floors, location, number and type of dwelling units, height of building(s),
etc.;
         e.   Existing and proposed contours of the property taken at regular
contour intervals not to exceed five feet (5'), or two feet (2') if the city
planner determines that greater contour detail is necessary to satisfactorily
make the determinations required by this title;
         f.   The general nature, location, and size of all significant
existing natural land features, including, but not limited to, sidewalks or
paths, tree or bush masses, all individual trees over six inches (6") in
diameter, grassed areas, surface rock and/or soil features, and all springs,
streams, or other permanent or temporary bodies of water; and
         g.   A location map or other drawing at appropriate scale showing the
general location and relation of the property to surrounding areas, including,
where relevant, the zoning and land use pattern of adjacent properties, the
existing street system in the area, location of nearby public facilities, etc.
   B.   Commission Hearing: A public hearing shall be held by the zoning
advisory commission on the application and conceptual development plan in the
same manner and with the same public notice procedure as required for zoning
classifications.
   C.   Commission Recommendation: The zoning advisory commission's
recommendation shall be transmitted to the city council with a statement of
reasons in support of the recommendation. If the recommendation is one of
approval, it shall contain recommended conditions or restrictions to be
included in an ordinance authorizing the establishment or expansion of the ID
district or its uses. The conditions or restrictions shall include, but not be
limited to:
      1.   Time limitations, if any, for submission of final development plans
and commencement of construction.
      2.   Uses permitted in this district.
      3.   Lot and bulk and performance standards for the development and
operation of the permitted uses.
      4.   Requirement that any transfer of ownership or lease of property in
the district include in the transfer or lease agreement a provision that the
purchaser or lessee acknowledges awareness of the conditions authorizing the
establishment of the district.
   D.   Conceptual Development Plan Approval: The zoning advisory commission
shall not approve the conceptual development plan unless and until the
commission determines that such plan conforms to each of the following
standards:
      1.   The conceptual development plan is in substantial conformance with
adopted comprehensive plans to guide the future growth and development of
Dubuque.
      2.   Expansions contemplated by the plan are justifiable and reasonable
in light of the projected needs of the institution and the public welfare.
      3.   The proposed additions or expansions are designed so as to be
functionally integrated with the existing institutional facilities, with due
regard to maintenance of safe, efficient, and convenient vehicular and
pedestrian traffic.
      4.   The proposed additions or expansions of use are permitted in the
district and are of a location, size, and nature such that they are not likely
to interfere with the appropriate use and enjoyment of property in abutting
districts.
      5.   The conceptual development plan will not violate any provision or
requirement of this title.
      6.   Approval of the conceptual development plan shall be valid for a
period of three (3) years, provided that after the first year, if no final site
development plan has been filed, the commission or council may require the
resubmission of a conceptual development plan in conformity with the procedures
and standards of this section
16-5-22.
      7.   A new or amended conceptual development plan may be filed at any
time following council approval.
   E.   Council Action: Upon receiving the recommendation of the commission,
the city council shall act in the manner provided by law to approve or
disapprove the requested zoning reclassification of the property. The
affirmative vote of at least three-fourths (3/4) of all the membership of the
council shall be necessary to approve the conceptual development plan when the
commission has recommended disapproval thereof, or to remove any conditions,
requirements, or limitations imposed by the commission in approving the
conceptual development plan.
   F.   Submission Of Final Site Development Plan: After passage of the
ordinance authorizing the establishment of an ID institutional district by the
city council, the applicant shall submit final site development plans to the
city planner within the period of time, if any, specified in said ordinance.
The plans shall include detailed information as required of a final site plan
for adequate consideration of the plans. The city planner will judge the final
site development plan for its conformance with the approved conceptual
development plan, and if found to be in conformance with said plan, the
issuance of building permits shall be permitted. Following approval of the
final site development plan, no construction may take place except in
substantial conformance with such plan. If the project is phased, then each
phase would be considered on its own merit and be evaluated on the specific
ordinance requirements establishing the district. The plans shall satisfy the
subdivision regulations and other pertinent city ordinances where applicable.
   G.   Development According To Final Site Development Plan:
      1.   Site Development Plan Review: No building permit shall be issued on
any site unless a site development plan has been submitted and approved in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 12 of this title and such plan
conforms with the conditions of the adopted conceptual development plan.
      2.   Construction Of Improvements Or Posting Of Bond: No buildings may be
erected and no uses may occupy any portion of the district until the required
related off site improvements are constructed or appropriate security as
determined by the zoning commission is provided to ensure construction. If the
institutional district is to be developed in phases, all improvements necessary
to the proper operation and functioning of each phase even though same may be
located outside of the section, must be constructed and installed, or
appropriate security as determined by the zoning commission must be provided to
ensure their construction.
   H.   Changes From Plan: After recording of a final site development plan,
changes not inconsistent with the purpose or intent of this section
16-5-22 may be approved by the zoning advisory commission. Changes affecting
the purpose or intent of this section
16-5-22 shall require a new petition to be filed. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-22-5: COMMENCEMENT OF USE BY PARTIES UNASSOCIATED WITH PRINCIPAL
INSTITUTION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Within an existing ID institutional district, no principal use other
than those provided for in this district may be commenced by any person(s)
except:
      1.   The principal institution or its agent; or
      2.   A person under contractual or other legally binding obligation to
provide services to such institution (e.g., the independent operator of a
student cafeteria); or
      3.   The person or persons operating a doctors' clinic or other facility
permitted under the principal permitted uses of this section
16-5-22.
   B.   The purpose of this provision is to prohibit the commencement of
principal uses unrelated to the promotion of the primary educational,
charitable, religious, or medical purpose of the institution, by requiring
purchasers of institutional land and/or buildings to seek appropriate
reclassification of the property prior to commencement of any noninstitutional
use on the premises. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-22-6: DISTRICT STANDARDS:
The specific ordinance establishing a particular institutional district, or
resolutions adopted pursuant thereto, shall provide standards for the design,
development, operation and maintenance of uses and structures. These standards
may include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Control of operations outside of enclosed buildings.
   B.   Control of lighting and utilities.
   C.   Provision of landscaping and protection of natural areas.
   D.   Control of refuse collection areas.
   E.   Off street parking and loading requirements. When parking requirements
are not included in the adopting ordinance establishing the specific ID
district, then chapter 14 of this title shall apply.
   F.   Control of signage. When signage requirements are not included in the
adopting ordinance establishing the specific ID district, then chapter 15 of
this title shall apply. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-22-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
 
                               Maximum  Setbacks
ID            Minimum Minimum  Lot      Front                           Maximum
Institutional Lot     Lot      Coverage                 Minimum Minimum Height2
              Area    Frontage (Lot     Minimum Maximum Side1   Rear1
                               Area)
All uses      -       -        -        20 ft.  -       10 ft.  10 ft.  120 ft.
 
Notes:
   1.    When abutting a residential or office residential district, the
setback shall be increased by an additional 2 feet per story above the first.
   2.    Height shall be measured from the lowest at grade elevation along any
wall.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4298.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-23: POS PUBLIC OPEN SPACE:
The POS district is intended to provide open space for passive recreation, to
protect and conserve natural, historic or cultural resources, to provide
habitat for wildlife, to prevent development in environmentally sensitive
locations such as bluffs, wetlands, floodplains and drainageways; to serve as a
buffer between differing land uses or to provide natural beauty in an urban
environment. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-23-1: PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the POS district:
Golf course.
Parks, public or private, and similar natural recreation areas.
Railroad and public or quasi-public utility, including substation, but not
including offices or storage. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 17-13, 3-18-
2013)
16-5-23-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be permitted in the POS district, subject to
the provisions of section
16-8-5 of this title:
Recreational use. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-23-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following uses may be permitted as accessory uses as provided in section
16-3-7 of this title:
Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use it serves.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-23-4: TEMPORARY USES:
The following uses may be permitted as temporary uses in the POS district in
conformance with the provisions of section
16-3-19 of this title:
Uses of a recreational or amusement nature. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-23-5: PARKING:
Minimum parking requirements shall be regulated in conformance with the
provisions of chapter 14 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-23-6: SIGNS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 15 of
this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-23-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
 
                    Minimum  Maximum    Setbacks
POS Public Minimum  Lot      Lot        Front           Minimum Minimum Maximum
Open Space Lot Area Frontage Coverage   Minimum Maximum Side    Rear    Height
                             (Lot Area)
All uses   -        -        -          25 ft.  -       25 ft.  25 ft.  -
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-24: PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
16-5-24-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The planned unit development (PUD) district is intended to encourage
flexible and innovative design in the development of appropriate sites as
integrated project units. Regulations for this district are designed to:
      1.   Allow a workable, interrelated mix of diverse land uses.
      2.   Encourage flexibility in design for efficiency and cost savings for
the developer and the community.
      3.   Maximize the potential for large scale office, residential,
commercial and industrial development and at the same time reduce to a minimum
the impact of the development on surrounding land uses and the natural
environment.
      4.   Encourage new development to preserve and utilize existing land
characteristics and features which offer visual recreational benefits or other
amenities.
      5.   Promote the economic, attractive, innovative and harmonious
arrangement and design of new buildings, streets, utilities and other
improvements or structures.
      6.   Provide a living, working and shopping environment within the layout
of the site that contributes to a sense of community and a coherent lifestyle.
      7.   Provide for the creation and preservation of more and larger usable
public or common open spaces than would normally be provided under conventional
development.
      8.   Encourage the careful design and planning of larger development
projects.
      9.   Give developers reasonable assurances regarding project approvals
before the unnecessary expenditure of design efforts, while providing the city
with appropriate assurances that approved PUDs will retain the character
envisioned at the time of project approval.
   B.   Property may be reclassified to the planned unit development
designation when the proposed development plan will promote the purpose of the
district and this title and is formulated in conformance with the review
procedures and standards of this chapter. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-24-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
A PUD may be established on any parcel of two (2) acres or more in size for
residential, office, commercial or industrial development. A PUD is required
for all retail commercial uses open to the public or members which have over
sixty thousand (60,000) square feet of building area. A PUD is also required
for regional shopping centers, manufactured home parks, biofuels production
facilities, commercial wind energy conversion systems and for all new
industrial parks and all new office parks. Any structure existing at the time
of adoption of this title which is expanded for retail commercial use to over
sixty thousand (60,000) square feet of building area and which expansion
constitutes an increase of twenty five percent (25%) or more to the building
area shall be subject to this chapter, including rezoning to PUD. Such PUD
district designation(s) shall be shown on the official zoning map as a P
followed by a letter designating the primary use, C (commercial), O (office), I
(industrial), or R (residential); i.e., PC, PO, PI, and PR. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009)
16-5-24-3: DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
Lots, uses, signs and structures shall conform to the bulk, sign, parking and
any other development regulations specifically provided in the ordinance
establishing the PUD; however, PUD districts established prior to adoption of
this title without specific bulk, sign, parking and other development
regulations shall be regulated by the regulations of the most compatible
district allowing the existing uses which are in the PUD. In all PUDs the
following minimum standards shall be met:
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   The density and design of the PUD shall be compatible in use, size
and type of structure, relative amount of open space, traffic circulation and
general layout with adjoining land uses, and shall be integrated into the
neighborhood.
      2.   The PUD shall take into consideration the impact in existing streets
and utilities.
      3.   The economic, environmental and neighborhood impacts of the
development shall be considered.
      4.   The PUD shall conform to the adopted comprehensive plan.
   B.   Specific Standards:
      1.   Maximum land coverage of all buildings and impermeable areas shall
be established.
      2.   Minimum open space shall be established and continued maintenance of
the open space shall be provided in the specific PUD ordinance.
      3.   Minimum interior and perimeter setbacks shall be established.
      4.   Maximum height limitations shall be established.
      5.   Minimum landscape screening requirements shall be established.
      6.   Sign regulations for the PUD development shall be established.
      7.   Provision for the continued maintenance of all improvements shall be
noted within the ordinance establishing the PUD district.
   C.   Other Conditions: Other conditions may be required, if found necessary
to protect and promote the best interests of the surrounding property or the
neighborhood. These conditions may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Improvement of traffic circulation for vehicles and pedestrians in
the proposed development and adjoining properties and streets.
      2.   Specific landscaping/screening/lighting requirements to maintain
privacy or reduce impacts in adjoining properties.
      3.   Joint use of private open space or amenities by adjoining property
owners.
   D.   Natural Topography And Major Grade Changes: Due consideration shall be
given to the natural topography and major grade changes shall be avoided. If
the development includes hillsides and slopes, special evaluation is given to
geological conditions, erosion and topsoil loss.
   E.   Unfavorable Development Conditions: If unfavorable development
conditions exist, the zoning advisory commission and city council may restrict
clearing, cutting, filling, or other substantial changes in the natural
conditions of the affected area. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-24-4: PROCEDURE TO ESTABLISH, AMEND, OR EXPAND PUD:
   A.   Preapplication Conference: Prior to any application for PUD district
establishment, the applicant and/or their representative shall meet with
planning services staff to determine the applicability of the development,
timing of procedure, and any other information pertinent to the proposal.
   B.   Application And Submission Of Conceptual Development Plan: After the
preapplication conference, the application for PUD district establishment shall
be filed with the established filing fee with the planning services office. The
application shall be submitted with a conceptual development plan, which shall
include the following:
      1.   Legal description and address of property.
      2.   Name, address and phone number(s) of the property owner(s).
      3.   Number, type and general location of residential units.
      4.   General location and type of nonresidential uses including
commercial, office and industrial uses.
      5.   List of principal permitted uses, conditional uses, accessory uses,
and temporary uses.
      6.   General location and type of recreational (passive and active) and
open space (usable and nonusable) areas.
      7.   Location of existing infrastructure and utilities, including:
streets with appropriate grades; sidewalks; access drives; water, sanitary
sewer and storm sewer drainage systems, where appropriate.
      8.   Proposed access to public right of way, including approximate
grades, traffic projections and general indication of traffic control measures.
      9.   Sketches to indicate the general design of building types and the
overall character of development.
      10.   Existing contours of the property taken at regular contour
intervals.
      11.   Proposed parking facilities, including surface lots, ramps and
loading/delivery areas.
      12.   Location of natural features, including woods, bluffs, waterway
courses, floodways and meadows.
      13.   Conceptual landscape plan showing berms, plantings and fences.
      14.   Proposed development conditions for bulk, sign and parking
regulation.
      15.   A location map or other framing at appropriate scale showing the
general location and relation of the property to surrounding areas, including
the zoning and land use pattern of adjacent properties, the existing street
system in the area, and location of nearby public facilities.
      16.   Other information as required by the planning services department
as necessary.
   C.   Commission Hearing: A public hearing shall be held by the zoning
advisory commission on the PUD application in the same manner and with the same
public notice procedure as required for zoning reclassification. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-5-24-5: PLAN APPROVAL STANDARDS:
The PUD shall not be approved unless and until the city council determines that
the conceptual development plan conforms to each of the following standards:
   A.   The conceptual development plan is in substantial conformance with the
comprehensive plan to guide the future growth and development of the city.
   B.   The proposed development is designed so as to be functionally
integrated with existing city streets, sanitary and storm sewer and water
service.
   C.   The proposed development shall not interfere with the appropriate use
and enjoyment of property on abutting districts.
   D.   The conceptual development plan will not violate any provision or
requirement of this title.
   E.   Natural drainage areas are retained as appropriate and improved if
necessary.
   F.   Due consideration is given to preserving natural site amenities and
minimizing the disturbance to the natural environment.
   G.   Existing trees are preserved wherever possible, and the location of
trees will be considered in designing building locations, underground services,
and paved areas.
   H.   If the development includes floodplain areas, any development within
the floodplain shall conform to the floodplain hazard overlay district
regulations in accordance with section
16-6-4 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-24-6: COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
The zoning advisory commission's recommendation shall be transmitted to the
city council with a statement of reasons in support of, or in opposition to,
the application, and with recommended conditions or restrictions to be included
in an ordinance authorizing the PUD district. The conditions or restrictions
shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Time limitations, if any, for submission of final site plans and
commencement of construction.
   B.   Uses permitted in the district.
   C.   Lot, bulk and performance standards for the development and operation
of the permitted uses.
   D.   Requirement that any transfer of ownership or lease of property in the
district include in the transfer or lease agreement a provision that the
purchaser or lessee acknowledges awareness of the conditions authorizing the
establishment of the district.
   E.   The submittal and approval of a final site plan may be required by the
zoning advisory commission to determine if the final detailed plans are in
conformance with the conceptual development plan. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-24-7: COUNCIL ACTION:
   A.   Upon the recommendation of the zoning advisory commission, the city
council shall act in the manner provided by law to approve or disapprove the
requested PUD zoning reclassification of the property. The affirmative vote of
at least three-fourths (3/4) of all the membership of the council shall be
necessary to approve the conceptual development plan when the commission has
recommended disapproval thereof, or to remove any conditions, requirements, or
limitations imposed by the commission in approving the conceptual development
plan.
   B.   The ordinance authorizing the establishment, expansion, or amendment of
a PUD district shall be recorded in the office of the Dubuque County recorder
at the applicant's expense. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-5-24-8: DEVELOPMENT TO FOLLOW APPROVED SITE PLAN:
   A.   Submission Of Final Site Plan: After adoption of the ordinance
establishing the PUD by the city council, the applicant shall submit a final
site plan to the city planner prior to development. The final site plan shall
be in substantial conformance with approved conceptual development plan.
   B.   Site Plan Review: No building permit shall be issued for any site
unless a final site plan has been submitted and approved in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 12 of this title and unless such plan conforms with the
conditions of the adopted conceptual development plan and PUD ordinance.
   C.   Construction Of Improvements And Posting Of Bond: No buildings may be
erected and no uses may occupy any portion of the PUD district until the
required related off site improvements are constructed or appropriate security
as determined by the city manager is provided to ensure construction. If the
PUD district is to be development in phases, all improvements necessary for the
proper operation and functioning of each phase, even though some improvements
may be located outside of the section, must be constructed and installed or
appropriate security as determined by the city manager must be provided to
ensure their construction.
   D.   Changes From Conceptual Plan: After recording of a final site plan,
nonmaterial changes consistent with the purpose or intent of this section
16-5-24 may be approved by the city planner. Material changes affecting the
purpose or intent of this section
16-5-24 shall require a new application to be filed. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 6
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
SECTION:
16-6-1: RROD Rural Residential Overlay District
16-6-1-1: Applicability
16-6-1-2: Establishment Of R-1 Single-Family Residential Zoning District
16-6-1-3: Reclassification To Original Underlying Or Any Other Zoning District
16-6-2: RHOD Restricted Height Overlay District
16-6-2-1: Applicability
16-6-2-2: Area Designations And Height Limitations
16-6-3: SOD Freeway 61/151 Corridor Signage Overlay District
16-6-3-1: Purpose
16-6-3-2: SOD Boundary
16-6-3-3: SOD Sign Regulations
16-6-4: Flood Hazard Overlay District
16-6-4-1: Definitions
16-6-4-2: Statutory Authority, Findings Of Fact And Purpose
16-6-4-3: General Provisions
16-6-4-4: Administration
16-6-4-5: Establishment Of Floodplain (Overlay) Districts
16-6-4-6: Floodway (Overlay) District (FW)
16-6-4-7: Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District (FF)
16-6-4-8: General Floodplain (Overlay) District (GF)
16-6-4-9: Appointment And Duties Of Board Of Adjustment
16-6-4-10: Nonconforming Uses
16-6-4-11: Penalties For Violation
16-6-4-12: Amendments
16-6-5: Airport Overlay District
16-6-6: OTN Old Town Neighborhood District Overlay
16-6-6-1: Purpose
16-6-6-2: OTN Boundary
16-6-6-3: OTN Design Guidelines
16-6-6-4: Applicability
16-6-1: RROD RURAL RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY DISTRICT:
The RROD rural residential overlay district is intended to accommodate change
and encourage development, to reduce obstacles to desirable development, and to
avoid the creation of nonconformities for agricultural property. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-6-1-1: APPLICABILITY:
Areas designated as rural residential overlay districts (RROD) shall be
identified on the official zoning map. The overlay zoning district designation
supplements, but does not replace the underlying AG agriculture zoning district
except as otherwise provided herein. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-6-1-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT:
At the time of approval of an application for an R-1 single- family residential
subdivision the underlying AG agriculture zoning classification on the
subdivision shall automatically cease, and the regulations of the R-1 single-
family residential district shall apply. The city planner shall remove the
existing underlying AG agriculture zoning district from the official zoning map
at the next regular updating thereof, and establish R-1 single-family
residential district, as set forth in section
16-5-2 of this title, as the new zoning district for the property. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-6-1-3: RECLASSIFICATION TO ORIGINAL UNDERLYING OR ANY OTHER ZONING DISTRICT:
Any person may request a reclassification of property within this overlay
district to the original underlying zoning district or any other zoning
district listed in section
16-5-1-4 of this title. The procedure for such a reclassification shall be that
established by section
16-9-5 of this title. The overlay district shall be replaced by the new zoning
district. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-6-2: RHOD RESTRICTED HEIGHT OVERLAY DISTRICT:
It is recognized that in addition to height restrictions in other sections of
this title, certain areas shall need to be further restricted in terms of
height of structures or natural objects. Such restrictions are necessary for
emergency communication transmission and reception and other legitimate public
safety concerns. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-6-2-1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Areas designated as restricted height overlay district (RHOD) shall be
identified on the official zoning map.
   B.   The overlay zoning district designation supplements, but does not
replace the underlying zoning district except as otherwise provided herein.
   C.   Such designation shall not affect usage of the property within the
parameters of its zoning classification except that no structure shall be
allowed to exceed the height above sea level specified in section
16-6-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-6-2-2: AREA DESIGNATIONS AND HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
The following areas shall be designated as RHO districts, within which the
following height limits shall be observed:
   A.   A strip of land one hundred feet (100') wide from the communication
tower at Sunnycrest care facility to the communication tower at the Peosta
water tower, insofar as said strip of land exists within the corporate limits
of the city. The maximum height allowed in this corridor shall be one thousand
feet (1,000') above mean sea level as determined by a qualified engineer
licensed under the laws of the state of Iowa.
   B.   A strip of land one hundred feet (100') wide extending a point which is
six hundred seventy feet (670') above mean sea level at the Dubuque Law
Enforcement Center to a point which is nine hundred thirty feet (930') above
mean sea level at Sunnycrest Manor in which no structure may be built to a
height exceeding the relative height of a line drawn between these two (2)
elevations. The maximum height allowed in this corridor shall be determined by
a qualified engineer licensed under the laws of the state of Iowa. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-6-3: SOD FREEWAY 61/151 CORRIDOR SIGNAGE OVERLAY DISTRICT:
16-6-3-1: PURPOSE:
The SOD signage overlay district has been established along the three (3) mile
long Freeway 61/151 corridor to:
   A.   Acknowledge the importance of the freeway corridor as a unique gateway
to and through the city;
   B.   Identify the lands lying along and adjacent to the freeway and
extending to the Mississippi River as requiring special attention in terms of
visual aesthetics;
   C.   Protect and enhance the vistas both from and to the city and the
Mississippi River valley along the freeway;
   D.   Eliminate the potential visual clutter viewable from the freeway while
allowing the opportunity for signage, where possible, which is appropriate in
terms of size, height and spacing; and
   E.   Create clearly understandable and enforceable regulations for a
specially defined district in the city. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-6-3-2: SOD BOUNDARY:
The SOD shall encompass the land as indicated on the official SOD map of the
city, adopted separately and incorporated herein by reference, which district
is generally described as all land within six hundred sixty feet (660') of the
westerly or northerly edge of the Freeway 61/151 right of way, from Grandview
Avenue north to and including Schmitt Island, and extending east to the city's
corporate limits, and including the area lying east of the upper bluff line
between Southern Avenue and 1st Street, excluding the area within the port of
Dubuque. The SOD is further divided into subareas, as follows:
   A.   Area A: All land east of Locust Street from Grandview Avenue north to
Camp Street north of the U.S. Highway 61/151 right of way and the extension of
Railroad Avenue east of U.S. 61/151 right of way east to the city's corporate
limits;
   B.   Area B: All land west of Locust Street from the intersection of Locust
Street and Southern Avenue north to Dodge Street and extending west to the
upper bluff line;
   C.   Area C: All land east of the shoreline of Peosta Channel, including
Schmitt Island;
   D.   Area D: All remaining land within the SOD;
   E.   Area X: All land east of Locust Street from Camp Street north to Dodge
Street and the Julien Dubuque Bridge, and extending east to the railroad right
of way;
   F.   Area Y: All land west of Locust Street from Dodge Street north to 1st
Street and east of Locust Street from Dodge Street north to 3rd Street
extending west to Freeway 61/151; and
   G.   Area Z: All land east of Freeway 61/151 from the 3rd Street Overpass,
including its extension east to the corporate limits, north to Peosta Channel,
and extending easterly and northerly to the city's corporate limits, including
all lands within the shoreline of the Dove Harbor Peninsula, except for that
land within six hundred sixty feet (660') of the easterly edge of the Freeway
61/151 right of way from the 3rd Street Overpass north to the extension of 8th
Street. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-6-3-3: SOD SIGN REGULATIONS:
   A.   Signs Not Allowed: Within the SOD signage overlay district, no off
premises signs are allowed in the following areas:
      1.   Area A on the official zoning map generally described as all the
land in the SOD east of Locust Street from Grandview Avenue north to Camp
Street north of the U.S. Highway 61/151 right of way and the extension of
Railroad Avenue east of U.S. 61/151 right of way east to the city's corporate
limits;
      2.   Area B on the official zoning map generally described as all the
land in the SOD west of Locust Street from the intersection of Locust Street
and Southern Avenue north to Dodge Street and extending west to the upper bluff
line;
      3.   Area C is eliminated as it lies entirely within the Port Of Dubuque
PUD; and
      4.   Area D on the official zoning map generally described as all the
land in the SOD east of the shoreline of Peosta Channel, including Schmitt
Island.
   B.   Sign Standards: Within the SOD signage overlay district, off premises
signs in the following areas shall be subject to the standards set forth in
section
16-15-12 of this title:
      1.   Area X of the official zoning map generally described as all the
land in the SOD east of Locust Street from Camp Street north to Dodge Street
and the Julien Dubuque Bridge, and extending east to the railroad right of way;
      2.   Area Y on the official zoning map generally described as all the
land in the SOD west of Locust Street from Dodge Street north to 1st Street and
east of Locust Street from Dodge Street north to 3rd Street extending west to
Freeway 61/151; and
      3.   Area Z on the official zoning map generally described as all the
land in the SOD east of Freeway 61/151 from the 3rd Street Overpass, including
its extension east to the corporate limits, north to Peosta Channel, and
extending easterly and northerly to the city's corporate limits, including all
lands within the shoreline of the Dove Harbor Peninsula, except for that land
within six hundred sixty feet (660') of the easterly edge of the Freeway 61/151
right of way from the 3rd Street Overpass north to the extension of 8th Street
(area G on the official zoning map).
   C.   Other Areas: Off premises signs in all other areas on the official
zoning map (E, F, G) in the signage overlay district (SOD) shall meet the
standards as set forth in section
16-15-12 of this title or set forth in this section, whichever are more
restrictive.
      1.   Height: No portion of any sign or sign structure within six hundred
sixty feet (660') of the Freeway 61/151 right of way shall be visible to a
person of normal visual acuity traveling on Freeway 61/151, but in no event
higher than twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Size: Three hundred (300) square feet.
      3.   Spacing: Five hundred feet (500') (linear measurement for signs
visible to oncoming traffic).
   D.   Variance: The zoning board of adjustment may grant a variance to
increase the standards pertaining to height and size or reduce spacing
requirements for any lawful sign. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-6-4: FLOOD HAZARD OVERLAY DISTRICT:
16-6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below or in Chapter 2 of this title, words or
phrases used in Section 16-6-4 shall be interpreted so as to give them the
meaning they have in common usage and to give Section
16-6-4 its most reasonable application.
APPURTENANT    A structure which is on the same parcel of the property as the principal
STRUCTURE:     structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
               principal structure.
BASE FLOOD:    The flood having one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
               given year. (Also commonly referred to as the "100-year flood").
BASE FLOOD     The elevation floodwaters would reach at a particular site during the occurrence
ELEVATION      of a base flood event.
(BFE):
BASEMENT:      Any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or lowest level below ground
               level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see "lowest floor."
               Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not
               limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
               paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
DEVELOPMENT:   "Development" does not include "minor projects" or "routine maintenance of
               existing buildings and facilities" as defined in this section. It also does not
               include gardening, plowing, and similar practices that do not involve filling or
               grading.
               The floor of the lowest enclosed area in a building when all the following
               criteria are met:
               A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic pressure
               during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions of Section
ENCLOSED AREA  16-6-4-7B.4.a. of Title 16; and
BELOW LOWEST   B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and used
FLOOR:         solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking or storage;
               and
               C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
               electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one foot
               (1') above the base flood elevation; and
               D.   The enclosed area is not a "basement" as defined in this section.
EXISTING       Any structure for which the "start of construction" commenced before the
CONSTRUCTION:  effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
               community.
               A factory-built home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
EXISTING       for servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
FACTORY-BUILT  (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
HOME PARK OR   streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
SUBDIVISION:   completed before the effective date of the first floodplain management
               regulations adopted by the community.
EXPANSION OF   The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
EXISTING       servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including
FACTORY-BUILT  at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and
HOME PARK OR   either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
               Any structure, designed for residential use which is wholly or in substantial
               part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing facilities for
FACTORY-BUILT  installation or assembly and installation, on a building site. For the purpose of
HOME:          Section 16-6-4, factory-built homes include mobile homes, manufactured homes, and
               modular homes; and also include "recreational vehicles" which are placed on a
               site for greater than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days and not fully
               licensed for and ready for highway use.
FACTORY-BUILT  A parcel or contiguous parcels of land divided into two (2) or more factory-built
HOME PARK OR   home lots for sale or lease.
SUBDIVISION:
FIVE HUNDRED   A flood, the magnitude of which has a two-tenths (0.2) percent chance of being
(500) YEAR     equaled or exceeded in any given year or which, on average, will be equaled or
FLOOD:         exceeded at least once every five hundred (500) years.
               A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
FLOOD:         dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or rivers or from the
               unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD          The official map prepared as part of (but published separately from) the Flood
INSURANCE RATE Insurance Study which delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium
MAP (FIRM):    zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD          A report published by FEMA for a community issued along with the community's
INSURANCE      Flood Insurance Rate Map(s). The study contains such background data as the base
STUDY (FIS):   flood discharge and water surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
FLOODPLAIN:    Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water as a result of a flood.
               An overall program of corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood
FLOODPLAIN     damages and promoting the wise use of floodplains, including but not limited to
MANAGEMENT:    emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodproofing and floodplain
               management regulations.
               Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or
FLOODPROOFING: adjustments to structures, including utility and sanitary facilities, which will
               reduce or eliminate flood damage to such structures.
               The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the floodplains adjoining
               the channel, which are reasonably required to carry and discharge flood waters or
FLOODWAY:      flood flows so that confinement of flood flows to the floodway area will not
               cumulatively increase the water surface elevation of the base flood by more than
               one foot (1').
FLOODWAY       Those portions of the special flood hazard area outside the floodway.
FRINGE:
HIGHEST        The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to
ADJACENT       the proposed walls of a structure.
GRADE:
               Any structure that is:
               A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places, maintained
               by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
               the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of the National
               Register;
               B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
               contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or
HISTORIC       a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
STRUCTURE:     historic district;
               C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
               historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the
               Interior; or
               D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities
               with historic preservation programs that have been certified by either: i) an
               approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior; or ii)
               directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
               The floor of the lowest enclosed area in a building including a basement except
LOWEST FLOOR:  when the criteria listed in the definition of enclosed area below lowest floor
               are met.
               Hospitals and like institutions; buildings or building complexes containing
MAXIMUM DAMAGE documents, data, or instruments of great public value; buildings or building
POTENTIAL      complexes containing materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage
DEVELOPMENT:   facilities; power installations needed in emergency or other buildings or
               building complexes similar in nature or use.
MINOR          Small development activities (except for filling, grading and excavating) valued
PROJECTS:      at less than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
NEW
CONSTRUCTION   Those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced on
(New           or after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations
buildings,     adopted by the community.
factory-built
home parks):
               A factory-built home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
NEW FACTORY-   for servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
BUILT HOME     (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
PARK OR        streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
SUBDIVISION:   completed on or after the effective date of the first floodplain management
               regulations adopted by the community.
               A vehicle which is:
               A.   Built on a single chassis;
               B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
RECREATIONAL   horizontal projection;
VEHICLE:       C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
               and
               D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a temporary
               living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
               Repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
               not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
               improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
ROUTINE        include:
MAINTENANCE OF A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing roofing tiles
EXISTING       and replacing siding;
BUILDINGS AND  B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets,
FACILITIES:    counter tops and similar finish work;
               C.   Basement sealing;
               D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes;
               E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air conditioning
               systems and repairing wells or septic systems.
SPECIAL FLOOD  The land within a community subject to the "base flood". This land is identified
HAZARD AREA    on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR,
(SFHA):        and/or A99.
               Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the development permit was
               issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
               rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement, was within one hundred
               eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
               placement or permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as pouring of
               a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the construction of columns, or any
               work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a factory-built home on
START OF       a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
CONSTRUCTION:  clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
               and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
               or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
               installation on the property of accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not
               occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
               improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
               wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building, whether or not
               that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
               Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the ground,
STRUCTURE:     including, but not limited to, buildings, factories, sheds, cabins, factory-built
               homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities and/or other similar uses.
               Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
SUBSTANTIAL    structure to its before damage condition would equal or exceed fifty percent
DAMAGE:        (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. Volunteer
               labor and donated materials shall be included in the estimated cost of repair.
               Any improvement to a structure which satisfies either of the following criteria:
               A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which
               equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
               either: (i) before the "start of construction" of the improvement; or (ii) if the
               structure has been "substantially damaged" and is being restored, before the
               damage occurred. The term does not, however, include any project for improvement
               of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary,
SUBSTANTIAL    or safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
IMPROVEMENT:   enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
               conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of an "historic
               structure", provided the alteration will not preclude the structure's designation
               as an "historic structure".
               B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building by
               twenty-five percent (25%) or more. All additions constructed after the effective
               date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community
               shall be added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase
               in original floor space would exceed twenty-five percent (25%).
VARIANCE:      A grant of relief by a community from the terms of the floodplain management
               regulations.
VIOLATION:     The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
               community's floodplain management regulations. (Ord. 24-21, 6-21-2021)
 
16-6-4-2: STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in Chapter 414, Code of Iowa,
as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning regulations to secure
safety from flood and to promote health and the general welfare.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the City of Dubuque are subject to
periodic inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare of the community.
      2.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by: (i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood damages
which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately elevated or
otherwise protected from flooding; and (ii) the cumulative effect of
obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
      3.   Section 16-6-4 relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing
flood hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the
Department of Natural Resources.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of Section 16-6-4 to protect
and preserve the rights, privileges and property of the City of Dubuque and its
residents and to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and
comfort and convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses
described in Section
16-6-4-2B.1. of Title 16 Unified Development Code with provisions designed to:
      1.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows
so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
      2.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      3.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      4.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      5.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program. (Ord. 24-21, 6-21-2021)
16-6-4-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which Unified Development Code Section
16-6-4 Apply: The provisions of Section
16-6-4 shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City of Dubuque
shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map as being within the boundaries of
the Floodway, Floodway Fringe, and General Floodplain (Overlay) Districts, as
established in Section
16-6-4-5.
   B.   Establishment Of Official Floodplain Zoning Map: The Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) for Dubuque County and Incorporated Areas, City of Dubuque,
Panels 19061C0215F, 0217F, 0220F, 0236F, 0237F, 0238F, 0239F, 0241F, 0330F,
0332F, 0335F, 0351F, 0352F, 0354F, 0358F, 0365F, 0370F, dated August 10, 2021,
and Panels 19061C0242F, 0243F, 0244F, 0356F, 0360F, dated August 19, 2013 which
were prepared as part of the Flood Insurance Study for Dubuque County, is (are)
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be the Official Floodplain Zoning
Map. The flood profiles and all explanatory material contained with the Flood
Insurance Study are also declared to be a part of Section
16-6-4.
   C.   Rules For Interpretation Of District Boundaries: The boundaries of the
zoning district areas shall be determined by scaling distances on the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map. When an interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of a boundary, the City Planner shall make the necessary
interpretation. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the City Planner in the enforcement or administration of
Section
16-6-4.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered without
full compliance with the terms of Section
16-6-4 and other applicable regulations which apply to uses within the
jurisdiction of Section
16-6-4.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: It is not intended by Section
16-6-4 to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where Section
16-6-4 imposes greater restrictions, the provision of Section
16-6-4 shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with Section
16-6-4 are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   F.   Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of Section
16-6-4 shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The standards required by Section
16-6-4 are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. Section
16-6-4 does not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay)
District areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. Section
16-6-4 shall not create liability on the part of the City of Dubuque or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
Section
16-6-4 or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   H.   Severability: If any section, clause, provision or portion of Section
16-6-4 is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of Section
16-6-4 shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 24-21, 6-21-2021)
16-6-4-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Appointment, Duties And Responsibilities Of Local Official:
      1.   The City Planner is hereby appointed to implement and administer the
provisions of Section
16-6-4 and will herein be referred to as the Administrator.
      2.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include, but
not necessarily be limited to the following:
         a.   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure
that the provisions of Section
16-6-4 will be satisfied.
         b.   Review floodplain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, state and local governmental
agencies including approval when required from the Department of Natural
Resources for floodplain construction.
         c.   Record and maintain a record of: (i) the elevation (in relation
to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of the lowest floor (including basement)
of all new or substantially improved structures; or (ii) the elevation to which
new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
         d.   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
         e.   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of Section
16-6-4.
         f.   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community's participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
         g.   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of any annexations or
modifications to the community's boundaries.
         h.   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of Section
16-6-4 and advise the Board of Adjustment of potential conflict.
         i.   Maintain the accuracy of the community's Flood Insurance Rate
Maps when:
            (1)   Development placed within the Floodway (Overlay) District
results in any of the following:
               (A)   An increase in the base flood elevations; or
               (B)   Alteration to the floodway boundary.
            (2)   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does
not include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot
(1') in the base elevation; or
            (3)   Development relocates or alters the channel.
            (4)   Within six (6) months of the completion of the development,
the applicant shall submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary
for a Letter of Map Revision.
         j.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the standards
of Section
16-6-4.
         k.   Forward all requests for variances to the Board of Adjustment for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Board of Adjustment.
   B.   Floodplain Development Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any man-
made change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited
to buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
materials or equipment, excavation or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
      2.   Application For Permit: Application shall be made on forms furnished
by the Administrator and shall include the following:
         a.   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
         b.   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(i.e., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
         c.   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
         d.   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
         e.   Elevation of the base flood.
         f.   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of
the lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to which a
structure is to be floodproofed.
         g.   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
         h.   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of Section
16-6-4.
      3.   Action On Permit Application: The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of Section
16-6-4 and shall approve or disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the
applicant shall be informed, in writing, of the specific reasons therefore. The
Administrator shall not issue permits for variances except as directed by the
Board of Adjustment.
      4.   Construction And Use To Be As Provided In Application And Plans:
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of Section
16-6-4. The applicant shall be required to submit certification by a
professional engineer or land surveyor, as appropriate, registered in the State
of Iowa, that the finished fill, structure floor elevations, floodproofing, or
other flood protection measures were accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of Section
16-6-4, prior to the use or occupancy of any structure. (Ord. 24-21, 6-21-2021)
16-6-4-5: ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICTS:
The floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of Section
16-6-4 are hereby divided into the following districts:
   A.   Floodway (Overlay) District (FW): Those areas identified as floodway on
the Official Floodplain Zoning Map;
   B.   Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District (FF): Those areas identified as Zone
AE on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map but excluding those areas identified
as floodway; and
   C.   General Floodplain (Overlay) District (GF): Those areas identified as
Zone A on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
The boundaries shall be as shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map. Within
these districts, all uses not allowed as permitted uses are prohibited unless a
variance to the terms of Section
16-6-4 is granted after due consideration by the Board of Adjustment. (Ord. 24-
21, 6-21-2021)
16-6-4-6: FLOODWAY (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FW):
   A.   Permitted Uses: All development within the Floodway District shall be
permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or
underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable performance
standards of the Floodway District.
   B.   Performance Standards: All Floodway District uses allowed as a
permitted use shall meet the following standards.
      1.   No development shall be permitted in the Floodway District that
would result in any increase in the base flood elevation. Consideration of the
effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the assumption
that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly situated
lands.
      2.   All development within the Floodway District shall:
         a.   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
         b.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage; and
         c.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      3.   No development shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the
channel or floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch, or any
other drainage facility or system.
      4.   Structures, buildings, recreational vehicles, and sanitary and
utility systems, if permitted, shall meet the applicable performance standards
of the Floodway Fringe District and shall be constructed or aligned to present
the minimum possible resistance to flood flows.
      5.   Structures, if permitted, shall have a low flood damage potential
and shall not be for human habitation.
      6.   Storage of materials or equipment that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive or injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited. Storage of
other material may be allowed if readily removable from the Floodway District
within the time available after flood warning.
      7.   Watercourse alterations or relocations (channel changes and
modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within
the altered or relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations
must be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
      8.   Any fill allowed in the floodway must be shown to have some
beneficial purpose and shall be limited to the minimum amount necessary.
      9.   Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried in the streambed
and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to channel
degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows. (Ord. 24-21, 6-
21-2021)
16-6-4-7: FLOODWAY FRINGE (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FF):
   A.   Permitted Uses: All development within the Floodway Fringe District
shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable
performance standards of the Floodway Fringe District.
   B.   Performance Standards: All development must be consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance
standards. Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no development may
increase the base flood elevation more than one foot (1'). The applicant will
be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with
sufficient technical information to make such determination.
      1.   All development shall:
         a.   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement.
         b.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         c.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      2.   Residential Structures: All new or substantially improved
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated a minimum of one foot (1') above the base flood elevation.
Construction shall be upon compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no
lower than one foot (1') above the base flood elevation and extend at such
elevation at least eighteen feet (18') beyond the limits of any structure
erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such as piers or extended
foundations) may be allowed where existing topography, street grades, or other
factors preclude elevating by fill. In such cases, the methods used must be
adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the various forces and
hazards associated with flooding. All new residential structures located in
areas that would become isolated due to flooding of surrounding ground shall be
provided with a means of access that will be passable by wheeled vehicles
during the base flood. However, this criterion shall not apply where the
Administrator determines there is sufficient flood warning time for the
protection of life and property. When estimating flood warning time,
consideration shall be given to the criteria listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa
Administrative Code.
      3.   Non-Residential Structures: All new or substantially improved non-
residential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot (1') above the base flood elevation, or together
with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level.
When floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State
of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the
base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
      4.   All New And Substantially Improved Structures:
         a.   Fully enclosed areas below the "lowest floor" (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings, with positioning on at least
two (2) walls, having a total net area of not less than one (1) square inch for
every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade.
            (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
            (4)   Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles,
building access and low damage potential storage.
         b.   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
         c.   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork) elevated to a minimum of one foot
(1') above the base flood elevation.
      5.   Factory-Built Homes:
         a.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure
is a minimum of one foot (1') above the base flood elevation.
         b.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Anchorage systems
may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to
ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
      6.   Utility And Sanitary Systems:
         a.   On-site wastewater disposal and water supply systems shall be
located or designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the
system during flooding.
         b.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well
as the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot (1') above the base flood elevation.
         c.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot (1') above the base
flood elevation.
         d.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
      7.   Storage of materials and equipment that are flammable, explosive or
injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited unless elevated a
minimum of one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. Other material and
equipment must either be similarly elevated or: (i) not be subject to major
flood damage and be anchored to prevent movement due to flood waters; or (ii)
be readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
      8.   Flood control structural works such as levees, flood walls, etc.
shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base flood with a minimum of
three feet (3') of design freeboard and shall provide for adequate interior
drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources shall approve
structural flood control works.
      9.   Watercourse alterations or relocations must be designed to maintain
the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion. In
addition, the Department of Natural Resources must approve such alterations or
relocations.
      10.   Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and subdivisions)
shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage. Development
associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation of public
utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of Section
16-6-4. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five (5) acres or fifty
(50) lots (whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those
areas located within the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District.
      11.   Accessory Structures To Residential Uses:
         a.   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are
incidental to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation
requirements where the following criteria are satisfied:
            (1)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed six hundred (600) sq. ft. in size. Those
portions of the structure located less than one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation must be constructed of flood-resistant materials.
            (2)   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure
shall not be used for human habitation.
            (3)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
            (4)   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement which may result in damage to other structures.
            (5)   The structure's service facilities such as electrical and
heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot (1')
above the base flood elevation.
            (6)   The structure's walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Section
16-6-4-7B.4.a. of Title 16 Unified Development Code.
         b.   Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
      12.   Recreational Vehicles:
         a.   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of Section
16-6-4-7B.5. of Title 16 Unified Development Code regarding anchoring and
elevation of factory-built homes when the following criteria are satisfied:
            (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for
less than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days; and
            (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
         b.   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must
satisfy requirements of Section
16-6-4-7B.5. of Title 16 Unified Development Code regarding anchoring and
elevation of factory-built homes.
      13.   Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be buried in the
streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due
to channel degradation and meandering.
      14.   Maximum Damage Potential Development: All new or substantially
improved maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated a minimum of one foot (1') above the elevation of
the 500-year flood, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be
floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional
engineer registered in the State of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing
methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities,
impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with the 0.2% annual
chance flood; and that the structure, below the 0.2% annual chance flood
elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water. A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator. Where 0.2% chance flood
elevation data has not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The
applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources
with sufficient technical information to make such determinations. (Ord. 24-21,
6-21-2021)
16-6-4-8: GENERAL FLOODPLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (GF):
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   All development within the General Floodplain District shall be
permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or
underlying zoning district) and provided they meet the applicable performance
standards of the General Floodplain District.
      2.   Any development which involves placement of structures, factory-
built homes, fill or other obstructions, storage of materials or equipment,
excavation or alteration of a watercourse shall be reviewed by the Department
of Natural Resources to determine: (i) whether the land involved is either
wholly or partly within the floodway or floodway fringe; and (ii) the base
flood elevation. The applicant shall be responsible for providing the
Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to make
the determination.
      3.   Review by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources is not required
for the proposed construction of new or replacement bridges or culverts where:
         a.   The bridge or culvert is located on a stream that drains less
than two (2) square miles; and
         b.   The bridge or culvert is not associated with a channel
modification that constitutes a channel change as specified in 567-71.2(2),
Iowa Administrative Code.
   B.   Performance Standards:
      1.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the floodway
as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the applicable
provisions and standards of the Floodway (Overlay) District Section
16-6-4-6.
      2.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the floodway
fringe as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the
applicable provisions and standards of the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District
Section
16-6-4-7. (Ord. 24-21, 6-21-2021)
16-6-4-9: APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Appointment And Duties Of Board Of Adjustment: A Board of Adjustment is
hereby established which shall hear and decide: (i) appeals; and (ii) requests
for variances to the provisions of Section
16-6-4, and shall take any other action which is required of the Board.
   B.   Appeals: Where it is alleged there is any error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of Section
16-6-4, the aggrieved party may appeal such action. The notice of appeal shall
be filed with the Board of Adjustment and with the official from whom the
appeal is taken and shall set forth the specific reason for the appeal. The
official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to the Board of
Adjustment all the documents constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
   C.   Variance: The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon request in
specific cases such variances from the terms of Section
16-6-4 that will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special
conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of Section
16-6-4 will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances granted must meet the
following applicable standards:
      1.   Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood would result. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
      3.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by Section
16-6-4, the applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the
Administrator that: (i) the issuance of a variance will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as twenty-five dollars
($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage; and (ii) such
construction increases risks to life and property.
      5.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   D.   Hearings And Decisions Of The Board Of Adjustment:
      1.   Hearings: Upon the filing with the Board of Adjustment of an appeal
or a request for a variance, the Board shall hold a public hearing. The Board
shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing and give public notice thereof, as
well as due notice to parties in interest. At the hearing, any party may appear
in person or by agent or attorney and present written or oral evidence. The
Board may require the appellant or applicant to provide such information as is
reasonably deemed necessary and may request the technical assistance and/or
evaluation of a professional engineer or other expert person or agency,
including the Department of Natural Resources.
      2.   Decisions: The Board shall arrive at a decision on an appeal or
variance within a reasonable time. In passing upon an appeal, the Board may, so
long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of Section
16-6-4, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and it shall make its decision, in
writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons for its decision.
In granting a variance, the Board shall consider such factors as contained in
this section and all other relevant sections of Section
16-6-4 and may prescribe such conditions as contained in Section
16-6-4-9B.2.
         a.   Factors Upon Which The Decision Of The Board Of Adjustment Shall
Be Based: In passing upon applications for variances, the Board shall consider
all relevant factors specified in other sections of Section
16-6-4 and:
            (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood
heights or velocities caused by encroachments;
            (2)   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others;
            (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the
ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary
conditions;
            (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
            (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the City;
            (6)   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location;
            (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use;
            (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
            (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive
plan and floodplain management program for the area;
            (10)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site;
            (12)   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer,
gas, electrical and water systems), facilities, streets and bridges; and
            (13)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of
Section
16-6-4.
         b.   Conditions Attached To Variances: Upon consideration of the
factors listed above, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of Section
16-6-4. Such conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
            (1)   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities;
            (2)   Limitation of periods of use and operation;
            (3)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions; and
            (4)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
dikes, levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of Section
16-6-4.
            (5)   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the
flood protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated
with the regulatory flood. The Board of Adjustment shall require that the
applicant submit a plan or document certified by a registered professional
engineer that the floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory
flood protection elevation and associated flood factors for the particular
area.
            (6)   Appeals To The Court: Any person or persons, jointly or
severally, aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Adjustment may present to
a court of record a petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision
is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such
petition shall be presented to the court within thirty (30) days after the
filing of the decision in the office of the Board. (Ord. 24-21, 6-21-2021)
16-6-4-10: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of Section
16-6-4, but which is not in conformity with the provisions of Section
16-6-4, may be continued subject to the following conditions:
      1.   If such use is discontinued for six (6) consecutive months, any
future use of the building premises shall conform to Section
16-6-4.
      2.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
      3.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred,
unless it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of Section
16-6-4. This limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply
with existing state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or
regulations or the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National
Register of Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude
its continued designation.
   B.   Except as provided in subsection A.2. of this section, any use which
has been permitted as a variance shall be considered a conforming use. (Ord.
24-21, 6-21-2021)
16-6-4-11: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
Violations of the provisions of Unified Development Code Section
16-6-4 or failure to comply with any of the requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of
variances) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates Section
16-6-4 or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or be imprisoned
for not more than thirty (30) days. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City
of Dubuque from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy the violation. (Ord. 24-21, 6-21-2021)
16-6-4-12: AMENDMENTS:
The regulations and standards set forth in Unified Development Code Section
16-6-4 may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No
amendment, supplement, change, or modification shall be undertaken without
prior approval of the Department of Natural Resources. (Ord. 24-21, 6-21-2021)
16-6-5: AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT:
Reserved for future use. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-6-6: OTN OLD TOWN NEIGHBORHOOD DISTRICT OVERLAY:
It is recognized that the older areas of Dubuque primarily in the downtown and
surrounding neighborhoods require site design standards that respect the
historic context of their development. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-6-6-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The OTN is characterized by older building stock and a mix of densely
developed commercial and residential structures built on small lots served by
alleys. The OTN includes Dubuque's historic downtown core, the Central Avenue
and Rhomberg Avenue business corridors, older neighborhood commercial nodes
often located on corner lots and a mix of single- and multi-family housing
located on separate lots or as upper story apartments.
   B.   The purpose and intent of the OTN is to conserve the character and
integrity of historic building stock in areas of the city where strict
application of site design standards for new commercial and multi-family
residential development are difficult to apply due to the dense development
patterns of these older areas. Often, application of such "suburban style"
standards may lead to demolition of existing structures or may limit
redevelopment of commercial and multi-family structures or properties in the
OTN. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-6-6-2: OTN BOUNDARY:
The OTN includes the city's locally designated historic districts, conservation
districts, and conservation planning areas as defined in chapter 10 of this
title, and those areas included in the city's phased historic/architectural
survey/evaluation. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-6-6-3: OTN DESIGN GUIDELINES:
OTN design guidelines enable property owners to renovate, redevelop or expand
their businesses or buildings within a framework compatible to their
neighborhood character and surrounding environs. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-6-6-4: APPLICABILITY:
This section
16-6-6 shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city shown on
the official zoning map as being within the OTN old town neighborhood district
overlay. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 7
SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
16-7-1: Home Based Businesses
16-7-1-1: General Provisions
16-7-1-2: Permitted Home Based Business Uses
16-7-1-3: Prohibited Home Based Business Uses
16-7-1-4: Home Based Businesses As Conditional Uses
16-7-2: Towers And Antennas
16-7-2-1: Definitions
16-7-2-2: Applicability
16-7-2-3: Communication Tower Standards
16-7-2-4: Antennas
16-7-2-5: Conditional Use Permit Application
16-7-2-6: Security Fencing
16-7-2-7: Exterior Finish
16-7-2-8: Landscaping
16-7-2-9: Lighting
16-7-2-10: Maintenance, Repair And Modification
16-7-2-11: Support Facilities
16-7-2-12: Removal Of Communication Towers And Antennas
16-7-2-13: Nonconforming Communication Towers And Antennas
16-7-2-14: Satellite Dish Antenna Regulations
16-7-3: Wind Energy Conversion Systems
16-7-3-1: Purpose
16-7-3-2: Definitions
16-7-3-3: Residential Wind Energy Conversion Systems (RWECS)
16-7-3-4: Small Wind Energy Conversion Systems (SWECS)
16-7-3-5: Commercial Wind Energy Conversion Systems (CWECS)
16-7-3-6: Freestanding WECS Bulk Standards
16-7-3-7: Building Mountable Wind Turbines (BMWT)
16-7-3-8: Repair; Abandonment; Removal
16-7-4: Adult Entertainment Establishments
16-7-4-1: Purpose
16-7-4-2: Siting Requirements
16-7-5: Payday Lending Establishments
16-7-5-1: Purpose
16-7-5-2: Definition
16-7-5-3: Payday Lending - Siting Requirements
16-7-1: HOME BASED BUSINESSES:
16-7-1-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Permitted As Accessory Uses; Restrictions: Home based businesses shall
be permitted as accessory uses within principal residential dwellings, provided
they meet the following provisions and the requirements of the district in
which located. A home based business shall not be permitted that:
      1.   Changes the outside appearance of the dwelling or is visible from
the street.
      2.   Generates traffic, parking, sewerage or water use in excess of what
is normal in the residential neighborhood.
      3.   Creates a hazard to person or property, results in electrical
interference, or becomes a nuisance.
      4.   Results in outside storage or display of any kind.
      5.   Employs other than self or family members residing on the premises.
      6.   Occupies more than fifty percent (50%) of the total floor area of
the dwelling unit.
      7.   Requires deliveries of materials to and from the premises involving
the use of vehicles over two (2) ton capacity, except parcel post or similar
parcel service vehicles.
      8.   Produces noise, vibration, smoke, odors, heat or glare as a result
of a home based business which would exceed that normally produced by a single
residence as determined by the city planner.
      9.   Advertises with a sign on site or off premises.
   B.   Customer And Client Contacts: Customer and client contact shall be
primarily by telephone, mail, fax, e-mail, or website and not on the premises
of the home based business, except those home based businesses such as
tutoring, teaching, childcare or personal services which cannot be conducted
without personal contact and as permitted in the following section.
   C.   Services Or Sales: Services or sales conducted on the premises shall be
by appointment only and shall not be oriented toward, or attract, off the
street customer or client traffic. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-1-2: PERMITTED HOME BASED BUSINESS USES:
The following are permitted as home based businesses, provided such
professional, business, or office activities are conducted in a manner that is
clearly accessory and incidental to the residential use of the premises:
Adult day services (not including licensed adult daycare).
Art studio.
Cake decorating.
Ceramics.
Childcare (not including licensed childcare center).
Computer programming.
Consultant services.
Dressmaking, sewing and tailoring.
Film processing.
Home cooking and preserving.
Home crafts.
Home office.
Home products distributors.
Income tax preparations.
Insurance salespersons.
Mailing services.
Online business.
Painting, sculpting and writing.
Teaching or tutoring limited to four (4) persons at one time.
Telephone answering.
Typist/stenographer. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-1-3: PROHIBITED HOME BASED BUSINESS USES:
The following uses shall be specifically prohibited as home based businesses:
Antique/furniture refinishing for resale on the premises or as a service for
the general public.
Automobile repair, except that an individual residing on the premises may
service such individual's own vehicle, providing that the provisions of section
16-7-1-1 of this chapter are met and that no repairs shall take place between
the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
Barber and beauty shops.
Contractor's shop.
Recycling or salvage operations.
Small engine repair.
Welding services. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-1-4: HOME BASED BUSINESSES AS CONDITIONAL USES:
Any proposed home based businesses not specifically prohibited or that employ
up to two (2) people who do not reside within the home herein shall be
considered a conditional use and be granted or denied by the zoning board of
adjustment upon finding that the proposed home based business can meet the
provisions of this section
16-7-1. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-2: TOWERS AND ANTENNAS:
The communications act of 1934, as amended by the telecommunications act of
1996 (act) grants the FCC exclusive jurisdiction over certain aspects of
telecommunication services. This section
16-7-2 is intended to regulate towers, telecommunications facilities and
antennas in the city in conformance with the act without prohibiting or tending
to prohibit any person from providing wireless telecommunication service. (Ord.
52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
All terms in this section which are not specifically defined herein shall be
construed in accordance with the communications act of 1934, the
telecommunications act of 1996 and the rules and regulations of the FCC. As
used in this section
16-7-2, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ACCESSORY FACILITY OR STRUCTURE: An accessory facility or structure serving or
being used in conjunction with an antenna, and located on the same property or
lot as the wireless telecommunications facilities, including, but not limited
to, utility or transmission equipment, storage sheds or cabinets.
ANTENNA: Any exterior transmitting, reception or receiving device mounted on a
tower, building or freestanding structure and used in transmission or reception
of electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunication signals or other
communication signals.
ANTENNA ARRAY: A grouping of antennas that encompasses both transmitter(s) and
receiver(s) of a single wireless telecommunication provider.
ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE: Any structure other than a communications tower
which can be used for supporting an antenna or antenna array attached to a host
structure which does not extend more than thirty feet (30') above the highest
point of the host structure.
COMMUNICATIONS TOWER: Any ground mounted structure that is designed,
constructed and used for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas,
including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers, or monopole towers.
FAA: Federal aviation administration.
FCC: Federal communications commission.
HEIGHT: When referring to a tower or structure, the distance measured from the
preexisting grade level to the highest point on the tower or structure, even if
said highest point is an antenna or lightning protection device.
SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA: An antenna consisting of a radiation element intended
for transmitting or receiving television, radio, microwave, or radiation
signals and supported by a structure with or without a reflective component to
the radiating dish, usually circular in shape.
STEALTH CONSTRUCTION: Any telecommunications facility, tower, or antenna which
is designed to enhance compatibility with adjacent land uses, including, but
not limited to, architecturally screened roof mounted antennas, antennas
integrated into architectural elements, and towers designed to look other than
a tower, such as light poles, power poles and trees.
SUPPORT FACILITIES: Support buildings, boxes, cabinets or similar structures
containing electrical or mechanical equipment and developed for the reception
or transmission of electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals,
radio frequencies (excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunication signals
or other communication signals.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The transmission and/or reception of audio, video, data and
other information by wire, radio frequency, light, and other electronic or
electromagnetic systems.
TOWER HEIGHT: The distance measured from the grade level at the base of the
tower to the highest point on the tower, including any antenna mounted on the
tower. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-2-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Nonessential Services: Wireless telecommunication towers and antennas
shall be regulated pursuant to this section
16-7-2 and not regulated as essential service, public utility or private
utility.
   B.   Exclusions: The following shall be exempted from this title:
      1.   Fire, police, transportation or other public service facilities
owned and operated by local governments.
      2.   Any facilities expressly exempt from the city's siting, building,
and permitting authority.
      3.   Over the air reception devices including the reception antennas for
direct broadcast satellites (DBS), multichannel multipoint distribution
(wireless cable) providers (MMDS), television broadcast stations (TVBS) and
other customer end antennas that receive and transmit fixed wireless signals
that are primarily used for reception.
      4.   Facilities exclusively for private, noncommercial radio and
television reception and private citizens bands, licensed amateur radio and
other similar noncommercial telecommunications.
      5.   Facilities exclusively for providing unlicensed spread spectrum
technologies where the facility does not require a new tower. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009)
16-7-2-3: COMMUNICATION TOWER STANDARDS:
   A.   No communication tower or associated support facilities shall be
constructed, except in conformance with this section
16-7-2.
   B.   Guywires and other support facilities shall conform to the setback
requirements for the underlying zoning district.
   C.   Communication towers are prohibited within POS districts.
   D.   Communication towers are prohibited within historic districts and
within one thousand feet (1,000') of a historic district.
   E.   Communication towers are subject to the following bulk regulations:
 
Zoning District      Use Type        Minimum Setback      Maximum Height
Agricultural,                                             Single user: 75 feet
residential, office, Conditional use                      or multiple user: 150
commercial,          permit          100% of tower height feet
institutional, PUD
Industrial           Permitted                            Height allowed by
                                                          underlying district
 
   F.   Site plans for communication towers shall be submitted and reviewed as
major site plans. Site plan applications shall be prepared to show all
information currently required by the city, a list of which shall be available
from the planning services department. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
   G.   Processing of major site plans generally takes ten (10) to twenty one
(21) days depending on the quality of the submitted site plan. Applicants shall
be notified within thirty (30) days of filing a site plan if the application is
incomplete. If the city of Dubuque has not approved, denied, or returned the
application as incomplete within one hundred fifty (150) days, the application
shall be deemed approved. (Ord. 25-13, 5-20-2013)
16-7-2-4: ANTENNAS:
Antennas, and their essential support facilities, shall be allowed as a
permitted use in any zoning district subject to the following:
   A.   A simple site plan shall be submitted for each antenna or antenna array
providing the following information:
      1.   Mounting location of proposed antenna or antenna array on host
structure.
      2.   Description of antenna or antenna array height and width, including
a photo (if available) or other visual representation.
      3.   Proof of ownership of the proposed site or authorization to utilize
it. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
      4.   Processing of a simple site plan generally takes one to five (5)
days depending on the quality of the submitted site plan. Applicants shall be
notified within thirty (30) days of filing a site plan if the application is
incomplete. If the city of Dubuque has not approved, denied, or returned the
application as incomplete within ninety (90) days, the application shall be
deemed approved. (Ord. 25-13, 5-20-2013)
   B.   The antenna does not extend more than thirty feet (30') above the
highest point of the host structure.
   C.   Antennas may be mounted on nonresidential structures, including, but
not limited to, existing towers, traffic signals, streetlights, water towers,
billboards, telephone tower and emergency signal poles, bridges, and parking
deck structures.
   D.   Antennas or antenna arrays shall comply with the maximum height
requirement of the zoning district in which they are located. Applicants
proposing an antenna higher than allowed by the zoning district in which it
will be located may apply for a variance to the zoning board of adjustment.
   E.   No antenna or antenna array may, by virtue of this section
16-7-2, occupy, encroach or "overhang" any public right of way without the
expressed approval of the city.
   F.   Each antenna installation shall require a separate building permit.
   G.   A building permit for the installation of an antenna in a historic
district requires the prior issuance of a certificate of appropriateness from
the historic preservation commission. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
   H.   Modification of existing facilities, including collocation, removal and
replacement of transmission equipment, that does not substantially change the
physical dimensions of the existing facility, does not require submittal of a
simple site plan. A building permit may be required. (Ord. 25-13, 5-20-2013)
16-7-2-5: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   An applicant proposing a communication tower that requires a
conditional use permit for construction in the zoning district for which it is
proposed shall submit all information currently required by the city, a list of
which shall be available from the planning services department.
   B.   After receipt of an application for a conditional use permit, the
planning services department shall schedule a public hearing before the zoning
board of adjustment, following all statutory requirements for publication and
notice, to consider such application. The zoning board of adjustment shall
receive evidence on the conditional use permit. The zoning board of adjustment
may approve the conditional use permit as requested in the pending application
with any conditions or safeguards, including stealth construction, it deems
reasonable and appropriate based upon the application and/or input received at
the public hearings or deny the application. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-2-6: SECURITY FENCING:
All self-supporting lattice or guyed communication towers shall be enclosed
within a security fence or other structure designed to preclude unauthorized
access. Monopole communication towers shall be designed and constructed in a
manner which will preclude to the extent practical, unauthorized climbing of
said structure. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-2-7: EXTERIOR FINISH:
Communication towers not requiring FAA painting or marking shall have a neutral
exterior finish which is compatible with adjacent land uses and reduces visual
impact, subject to review and approval by the zoning board of adjustment as
part of the application approval process. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-2-8: LANDSCAPING:
All tracts of land on which communication towers, antenna support structures,
support facilities and/or antennas are located shall be subject to the
following landscaping requirements:
   A.   Support facilities and communication tower bases shall be landscaped
with a buffer of plant materials that effectively screens from view the tower
base and any support facilities from adjacent property or street. The plantings
installed shall be of a size and species that can achieve a height of six feet
(6') and seventy five percent (75%) opacity within three (3) growing seasons.
   B.   In locations where the visual impact of the tower and support
facilities would be minimal, the landscape requirement may be reduced or waived
by the city planner.
   C.   Existing mature tree growth and natural landforms on the property shall
be preserved to the maximum extent possible. Natural growth around the property
perimeter may be considered a sufficient buffer for a proposed tower and
support facilities as determined by the city planner. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-2-9: LIGHTING:
Towers shall not be illuminated unless required to conform to FAA or other
governmental regulations. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-2-10: MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND MODIFICATION:
   A.   All communication towers, antenna support structures, support
facilities and antennas constructed or under construction on the date of
approval of this regulation may continue in existence as a nonconforming
structure and may be maintained or repaired without complying with any of the
requirements of this section
16-7-2. Nonconforming structures or uses may not be enlarged or the degree of
nonconformance increased without complying with this section
16-7-2. Any modification or reconstruction of a tower, antenna support
structure, support facilities and antennas constructed or under construction on
the date of approval of this regulation shall be required to comply with the
requirements of this section
16-7-2.
   B.   Communication towers, antenna support structures, support facilities
and antennas constructed under authority of this section
16-7-2 shall at all times be kept and maintained in good condition, order and
repair so that the same does not constitute a nuisance to or a danger to the
life or property of any person or the public. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-2-11: SUPPORT FACILITIES:
   A.   Support facilities shall be of a color and construction that is
compatible with surrounding development.
   B.   Support facilities shall not be more than four hundred (400) square
feet of gross floor area and more than twelve feet (12') in height.
   C.   Setbacks for support facilities shall be the same as the setbacks
required for other structures in the zoning district in which they are located.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-2-12: REMOVAL OF COMMUNICATION TOWERS AND ANTENNAS:
   A.   The operator of a communication tower shall provide the city with a
copy of any notice submitted to the FCC stating their intent to cease
operations. The operator or the landowner shall have ninety (90) days from the
last date of operations to remove the tower and support facilities.
   B.   Any antenna or communication tower that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned, and the
operator of such antenna or tower or the landowner shall remove the same within
ninety (90) days of notice from the city to remove the tower or antenna. A
maximum of two (2) 12-month extensions may be granted by the city planner if
the tower operator is actively seeking tenants for the tower.
   C.   If the operator or landowner of a tower fails, after notice, to remove
the tower, the city shall begin the civil citation process. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009)
16-7-2-13: NONCONFORMING COMMUNICATION TOWERS AND ANTENNAS:
Any existing communication tower or antenna which becomes nonconforming on the
effective date hereof or becomes nonconforming at any future date shall be
regulated according to the rules set forth in chapter 4 of this title, except
as follows:
   A.   New antennas and support facilities may be mounted on a nonconforming
communication tower.
   B.   A nonconforming communication tower within one thousand feet (1,000')
of a historic preservation district shall be considered a legal nonconforming
tower. As such, the tower may remain until it has been abandoned.
   C.   Should any lawful nonconforming communication tower be destroyed by any
means to an extent of more than seventy five percent (75%) of its replacement
cost at the time of destruction, it may only be reconstructed in conformance
with the provisions of this section
16-7-2, provided that the destruction was caused by an accident or act of God
occurring after the adoption of this section
16-7-2 and such reconstruction does not increase the degree of nonconformity
that existed prior to destruction. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-2-14: SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA REGULATIONS:
Satellite dish antennas may be permitted as accessory uses provided a site plan
is submitted and approved in accordance with chapter 12 of this title.
   A.   Not more than one ground mounted dish shall be placed on any lot less
than one-half (1/2) acre; and
   B.   Dishes shall not exceed ten feet (10') in diameter; and
   C.   Dishes shall be made of noncombustible and corrosive resistant material
and erected in a secure, wind resistant manner according to the specifications
of the building official; and
   D.   Dishes shall not be used as signs or billboards (on or off premises
signs); and
   E.   Ground mounted dishes shall only be permitted in rear yards, except
that on corner lots dishes shall be allowed in side yards; and
   F.   Roof mounted satellite dishes shall be allowed in all nonresidential
districts provided that the additional requirements shall apply:
      1.   The height does not exceed the maximum height restrictions of
buildings within the zoning district; and
      2.   The dish location is a minimum of five feet (5') from any property
line; and
      3.   In lieu of a site plan a building elevation drawing shall be
required to indicate compliance with height and setback regulations; and
      4.   Shall not exceed either ten feet (10') in diameter for circular
shapes or forty (40) square feet for other than circular shapes. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-7-3: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS:
16-7-3-1: PURPOSE:
In order to balance the need for clean, renewable energy resources and the
necessity to protect the health, safety, sustainability and welfare of the
community, the city finds these regulations are necessary to ensure that wind
energy conversion systems are appropriately sited within the community. (Ord.
52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this section
16-7-3, the following terms shall have the meaning herein ascribed to them:
BUILDING MOUNTED WIND TURBINE (BMWT): A wind energy conversion system
consisting of a wind turbine mounting system and associated control or
conversion electronics and which is mounted to a building and intended to
primarily reduce on site consumption of utility power.
COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (CWECS): An electrical generating
facility comprised of one or more wind turbines and accessory facilities
generating capacity, including, but not limited to: power lines, transformers,
substations and meteorological towers that operate by converting the kinetic
energy of wind into electrical energy. The energy generated will be used by a
utility company for off site use.
FAA: Federal aviation administration.
FCC: Federal communications commission.
HUB HEIGHT: The distance from ground level as measured to the centerline of the
rotor.
RESIDENTIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (RWECS): A wind energy conversion
system consisting of a wind turbine, tower, and associated control or
conversion electronics, and which is intended to primarily reduce on site
consumption of utility power. A system is considered a residential wind energy
system only if it supplies electrical power solely for on site use, except that
when a parcel on which the system is installed also receives electrical power
supplied by a utility company, excess electrical power generated and not
presently needed for on site use may be used by the utility company.
ROTOR DIAMETER: The diameter of the circle described by the moving rotor
blades.
SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (SWECS): A wind energy conversion system
consisting of a wind turbine, a tower, and associated control or conversion
electronics, and which will be used primarily to reduce on site consumption of
utility power.
TOTAL HEIGHT: The highest point, above ground level, reached by a rotor tip or
any other part of the wind energy conversion system.
TOWER HEIGHT: The height above grade of the fixed portion of the tower,
excluding the wind turbine itself.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS): An aggregation of parts including the
base, tower, generator, rotor, blades, supports, guywires and accessory
equipment such as utility interconnect and battery banks, etc., in such
configuration as necessary to convert the power of wind into mechanical or
electrical energy, e.g., wind charger, windmill or wind turbine.
WIND TURBINES: Any piece of electrical generating equipment that converts the
kinetic energy of blowing wind into electrical energy using airfoils or similar
devices to capture the wind. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-3-3: RESIDENTIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (RWECS):
   A.   Siting And Construction Requirements: The requirements for siting and
construction of all residential wind energy conversion systems regulated by
this section shall include the following:
      1.   Wind energy towers shall to the extent possible blend into the
surrounding environment and architecture, including painting to reduce visual
obtrusiveness. The city planner may require a photo of an RWECS system of the
same model that is the subject of the landowner's application adjacent to a
building or some other object illustrating scale (e.g., manufacturer's photo).
      2.   RWECS shall not be artificially lighted unless required by the FAA
or appropriate authority.
      3.   No tower should have any sign, writing, or picture that may be
construed as advertising.
      4.   RWECS shall not exceed sixty (60) decibels, as measured at the
closest property line. The level, however, may be exceeded during short term
events such as utility outages and/or severe windstorms.
      5.   An RWECS shall be located on a parcel that is at least one acre in
size.
      6.   The applicant shall provide evidence that the proposed height of the
RWECS does not exceed the height recommended by the manufacturer or distributor
of the system.
      7.   The applicant will provide information demonstrating that the system
will be used primarily to offset on site consumption of electricity.
      8.   The minimum distance between the ground and any protruding blades
utilized on an RWECS shall be twenty feet (20'), as measured at the lowest
point on the arc of the blades. The supporting tower shall also be enclosed
with a six foot (6') tall fence or the base of the tower shall not be climbable
for a distance of twelve feet (12').
   B.   Compliance With FAA Regulations: An RWECS must comply with applicable
regulations of the FAA, including any necessary approvals for installations
close to airports.
   C.   Compliance With International Building Code: Building permit
applications for an RWECS shall be accompanied by standard drawings of the wind
turbine structure, including the tower base, and footings. An engineering
analysis of the tower showing compliance with the international building code
and certified by a professional engineer licensed in the state of Iowa shall
also be submitted.
   D.   Compliance With National Electric Code: Building permit applications
for an RWECS shall be accompanied by a line drawing of the electrical
components in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that the manner of
installation conforms to the national electric code. This information may be
supplied by the manufacturer.
   E.   Modifications: The requirements for siting and construction of an RWECS
may be modified by special exception in accordance with section
16-8-7 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-3-4: SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (SWECS):
   A.   Siting And Construction Requirements: The requirements for siting and
construction of all small wind energy conversion systems regulated by this
section shall include the following:
      1.   Small wind energy towers shall maintain a galvanized steel finish,
unless FAA standards require otherwise, or if the owner is attempting to match
the finish on the tower to the surrounding environment and architecture, in
which case it may be painted to reduce visual obtrusion. The city planner may
require a photo of an SWECS of the same model that is the subject of the
landowner's application adjacent to a building or some other object
illustrating scale (e.g., manufacturer's photo).
      2.   An SWECS shall not be artificially lighted unless required by FAA or
appropriate authority.
      3.   No tower should have any sign, writing, or picture that may be
construed as advertising.
      4.   An SWECS shall not exceed sixty (60) decibels, as measured at the
closest property line. The level, however, may be exceeded during short term
events such as utility outages and/or severe windstorms.
      5.   The applicant shall provide evidence that the proposed height of the
SWECS tower does not exceed the height recommended by the manufacturer or
distributor of the system.
      6.   The minimum distance between the ground and any protruding blades
utilized on an SWECS shall be twenty feet (20'), as measured at the lowest
point of the arc of the blades. No blades shall extend over parking areas,
driveways or sidewalks. The supporting tower shall also be enclosed with a six
foot (6') tall fence or the base of the tower shall not be climbable for a
distance of twelve feet (12').
   B.   Compliance With FAA Regulations: An SWECS must comply with applicable
regulations of the FAA, including any necessary approvals for installations
close to airports.
   C.   Compliance With International Building Code: Building permit
applications for an SWECS shall be accompanied by standard drawings of the wind
turbine structure, including the tower, base, and footings. An engineering
analysis of the tower showing compliance with the international building code
and certified by a licensed professional engineer shall also be submitted.
   D.   Compliance With National Electric Code: Building permit applications
for an SWECS shall be accompanied by a line drawing of the electrical
components in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that the manner of
installation conforms to the national electric code. This information may be
supplied by the manufacturer.
   E.   Modifications: The requirements for siting and construction of an SWECS
may be modified by variance in accordance with section
16-8-6 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-3-5: COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (CWECS):
   A.   Siting And Construction Requirements And Application Information: A
commercial wind energy conversion system shall be allowed only as a planned
unit development district in accordance with section
16-5-24 of this title. The requirements and application information to be
supplied for the siting and construction of all CWECS regulated by this section
shall include the following:
      1.   The name(s) of project applicant.
      2.   The name of the project owner.
      3.   The legal description and address of the project.
      4.   A description of the project including number, type, name plate
generating capacity, tower height, rotor diameter, and total height of all wind
turbines and means of interconnecting with the electrical grid.
      5.   Site layout, including the location of property lines, wind
turbines, feeder lines, and all related accessory structures. This site layout
shall include distances and be drawn to scale.
      6.   Engineer's certification from an engineer certified by the state of
Iowa.
      7.   Documentation of land ownership or legal control of the property.
      8.   The latitude and longitude of individual wind turbines.
      9.   A USGS topographical map, or map with similar data, of the property
and surrounding area, including any other wind energy conversion system, within
ten (10) rotor distances of the proposed CWECS not owned by the applicant.
      10.   Location of wetlands, scenic, and natural areas (including bluffs)
within one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') of the proposed CWECS.
      11.   An acoustical analysis that certifies that the noise requirements
within this title can be met.
      12.   The applicant shall supply the emergency management agency and/or
fire department with a basic emergency response plan.
      13.   FAA and FCC permit, if necessary. Applicant shall submit permit or
evidence that the permit has been filed with the appropriate agency.
      14.   Evidence that there will be no interference with any commercial
and/or public safety communication towers.
      15.   Decommissioning plan as required by this title.
   B.   Safety And Design Standards: All towers shall adhere to the following
safety and design standards:
      1.   Clearance: Clearance of rotor blades or airfoils must maintain a
minimum of twenty feet (20') of clearance between the lowest point of their arc
and the ground.
      2.   Posting Of Sign: All CWECS shall have a sign or signs posted on the
tower, transformer and substation, warning of high voltage. Other signs shall
be posted on the turbine with emergency contact information.
      3.   Wind Turbines: All wind turbines, which are a part of a CWECS, shall
be installed with a tubular monopole type tower.
      4.   Color And Finish:
         a.   All wind turbines and towers that are part of a CWECS shall be
white, gray or another nonobtrusive color.
         b.   Blades may be black in order to facilitate deicing.
         c.   Finishes shall be matte or nonreflective.
      5.   Lighting:
         a.   Lighting, including lighting intensity and frequency of strobe,
shall adhere to but not exceed requirements established by the FAA permits and
regulations.
         b.   Red strobe lights shall be used during nighttime illumination to
reduce impacts on neighboring uses and migratory birds.
         c.   Red pulsating incandescent lights shall be prohibited.
      6.   Compliance With Sign Regulations: All signage shall comply with the
sign regulations found in these regulations.
      7.   Underground Feeder Lines: All communications and feeder lines
installed as part of a CWECS shall be buried, where feasible.
      8.   Noise: No CWECS shall exceed fifty (50) decibels at the nearest
structure or use occupied by humans.
      9.   Interference:
         a.   The applicant shall minimize or mitigate interference with any
commercial or public safety electromagnetic communications, such as radio,
telephone, microwaves, or television signals caused by any CWECS.
         b.   The applicant shall notify all communication tower operators
within five (5) miles of the proposed CWECS location upon application to the
city for permits.
      10.   Roads: Applicant shall:
         a.   Identify all county, municipal or township roads to be used for
the purposes of transporting CWECS, substation parts, cement, and/or equipment
for construction, operation or maintenance of the CWECS and obtain applicable
weight and size permits from the impacted jurisdictions prior to construction.
         b.   Conduct a preconstruction survey, in coordination with the
appropriate jurisdictions to determine existing road conditions. The survey
shall include photographs and a written agreement to document the condition of
the public road.
         c.   Be responsible for restoring the road(s) and bridges to
preconstruction conditions.
      11.   Repairs: The applicant shall be responsible for immediate repair of
damage to public drainage systems stemming from construction, operation or
maintenance of the CWECS.
   C.   Modifications: The requirements for siting and construction of a CWECS
may be modified as part of the review process to establish the PUD in
accordance with section
16-5-24 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-3-6: FREESTANDING WECS BULK STANDARDS:
 
Turbine Type Zoning District     Use Type     Minimum         Maximum
                                              Setback         Height
RWECS        Residential, office CUP required 100% of total   80 feet
SWECS        PUD, commercial,    CUP required system height   120 feet
             industrial, AG, ID
CWECS        PUD                 PUD required Pursuant to PUD Pursuant to PUD
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-3-7: BUILDING MOUNTABLE WIND TURBINES (BMWT):
A BMWT and its essential support facilities shall be allowed as a permitted
accessory use when attached to the principal structure in any zoning district
subject to the following:
   A.   A simple site plan shall be submitted for each BMWT providing the
following information:
      1.   Mounting location of the BMWT on the principal structure.
      2.   Description of the BMWT height and width, including a photo (if
available) or other visual representation.
   B.   BMWT shall not exceed sixty (60) decibels, as measured at the closest
property line. The level, however, may be exceeded during short term events
such as utility outages and/or severe windstorms.
   C.   BMWT shall comply with the maximum height requirement of the zoning
district in which it is located. Applicants proposing an installation higher
than allowed by the zoning district in which it will be located may apply for a
variance to the zoning board of adjustment.
   D.   No BMWT may occupy, encroach or "overhang" any public right of way
without the expressed approval of the city.
   E.   Each BMWT installation shall require a separate building permit.
   F.   A building permit for the installation of a BMWT in a historic district
requires the prior issuance of a certificate of appropriateness from the
historic preservation commission. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-3-8: REPAIR; ABANDONMENT; REMOVAL:
   A.   Small Wind Energy Conversion Systems: Any SWECS found to be unsafe by
the building official shall be repaired by the owner to meet federal, state and
local safety standards, or removed within six (6) months. If any SWECS is not
operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, the city shall notify
the landowner by registered mail that such SWECS is deemed abandoned, and
provide forty five (45) days for a response. In their response, the landowner
shall set forth reasons for the operational difficulty and provide a timetable
for corrective action not exceeding six (6) months. If the corrective action is
not completed within six (6) months, the city shall notify the landowner that
such SWECS shall be removed within twelve (12) days of receipt of the notice.
   B.   Commercial Wind Energy Conversion Systems: A CWECS shall be considered
a discontinued use after twelve (12) months without energy production, unless a
plan is developed and submitted to the city outlining the steps and schedule
for returning the CWECS to service. All CWECS and accessory facilities shall be
removed to four feet (4') below ground level within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the discontinuation of use. Additional time may be granted upon
acceptable proof of weather delays. Each CWECS shall have a decommissioning
plan outlining the anticipated means and cost of removing CWECS at the end of
their serviceable life or upon becoming a discontinued use. The cost estimates
shall be made by a competent party, such as a professional engineer, a
contractor capable of decommissioning or a person with suitable expertise or
experience with decommissioning. The plan shall also identify the financial
resources that will be available to pay for decommissioning and removal of the
WECS and accessory facilities. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-4: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS 1 :
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapter 8 of this code.
16-7-4-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The special provisions of this section
16-7-4 are intended to regulate the location of adult entertainment
establishments as herein defined, by specifying districts in which such uses
may be permitted and requirements for spatial separation of such uses. Nothing
in this title shall be construed or interpreted to permit adult entertainment
establishments in areas other than those set forth herein.
   B.   Adult entertainment establishments are hereby acknowledged to have
special characteristics and impacts upon their surroundings, and upon the use
and enjoyment of adjacent property. It is the intent of these regulations to
provide for the confinement of adult entertainment establishments to those
commercial and industrial areas in which these special impacts are judged to be
least disruptive to the use and enjoyment of adjacent properties. These
regulations are further intended to require that adult entertainment
establishments shall not be permitted to locate in such concentration that
their operational features may establish the dominant character of any
commercial or industrial area.
   C.   These regulations are further intended to protect and balance lawful
rights of expression with other lawful rights to the enjoyment and use of
property, and are made with full consideration of the legal and constitutional
issues heretofore adjudicated.
   D.   The provisions of this section
16-7-4 shall govern the location and spatial separation of adult entertainment
establishments in commercial districts and industrial districts, and no such
regulated use, as defined, may be permitted except in conformance with these
provisions. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-4-2: SITING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Adult entertainment establishments may be established within any
commercial or industrial zoning district, but shall not be located within one
thousand two hundred feet (1,200') of any residential or institutional
district, or a public or private (parochial) primary or secondary school (K -
12) property approved by the state of Iowa.
   B.   No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within two
thousand five hundred feet (2,500') of any other adult entertainment
establishment. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-7-5: PAYDAY LENDING ESTABLISHMENTS:
16-7-5-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The special provisions of this section
16-7-5 are intended to regulate the location of payday lending establishments
as herein defined, by specifying districts in which such uses may be permitted
and requirements for spatial separation of such uses. Nothing in this code
shall be construed or interpreted to permit payday lending establishments in
areas other than those set forth herein.
   B.   The provisions of this section
16-7-5 shall govern the location and spatial separation of payday lending
establishments in commercial districts and industrial districts, and no such
regulated use, as defined, may be permitted except in conformance with these
provisions. (Ord. 46-14, 7-21-2014)
16-7-5-2: DEFINITION:
PAYDAY LENDER: A company that: a) accepts a check dated subsequent to the date
it was written; and/or b) accepts a check on the date it was written and holds
the check for a period of time prior to deposit or presentment pursuant to an
agreement with, or any representations made to, the maker of the check, whether
expressed or implied. (Ord. 46-14, 7-21-2014)
16-7-5-3: PAYDAY LENDING - SITING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Establishments may be established within any commercial or industrial
zoning district, but shall not be located within one thousand two hundred feet
(1,200') of any residential district.
   B.   No payday lending establishment shall be located within two thousand
five hundred feet (2,500') of any other payday lending establishment. (Ord. 46-
14, 7-21-2014)
CHAPTER 8
ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT APPLICATIONS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
16-8-1: Zoning Board Of Adjustment
16-8-2: Reserved
16-8-3: Reserved
16-8-4: Appeal From Administrative Official
16-8-4-1: Authorization
16-8-4-2: Appeal Procedure
16-8-4-3: Effect Of Appeal
16-8-5: Conditional Use Permit Procedure
16-8-5-1: Generally
16-8-5-2: Application
16-8-5-3: Notice And Meeting Requirements
16-8-5-4: Standards For Granting Conditional Use Permit
16-8-5-5: Conditions And Restrictions On Conditional Use Permit
16-8-5-6: Decisions And Records
16-8-5-7: Period Of Validity; Expiration
16-8-5-8: Parking Regulations
16-8-5-9: Sign Regulations
16-8-5-10: List Of Conditional Uses
16-8-6: Variance Procedure
16-8-6-1: Application
16-8-6-2: Notice And Meeting Requirements
16-8-6-3: Requirements For Granting Of Variance
16-8-6-4: Conditions And Restrictions Attached To Granting Of Variance
16-8-6-5: Decisions And Records
16-8-7: Special Exceptions
16-8-7-1: Application
16-8-7-2: Notice And Meeting Requirements
16-8-7-3: Requirements For Granting Special Exception
16-8-7-4: Conditions And Restrictions Attached To Granting Special Exception
16-8-7-5: Decisions And Records
16-8-8: Appeal From Board Decision
16-8-1: ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Board Created: There is hereby created the zoning board of adjustment.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the board is to review applications regarding
criteria for granting of special exceptions, conditional use permits, or
variances; to decide citizens' appeals of orders, requirements, decisions, or
determinations made by planning services staff; and to hear cases given by
applicants and decide whether the request should be granted based on the
criteria set forth in the zoning ordinance.
   C.   Internal Organization And Rules: The board may adopt rules and
regulations to govern its organizational procedures as may be necessary and
which are not in conflict with this code or the Iowa Code.
   D.   Procedures For Operation: All administrative, personnel, accounting,
budgetary, and procurement policies of the city govern the board in all its
operations.
   E.   Membership:
      1.   The board comprises five (5) residents of the city, appointed by the
city council.
      2.   Two (2) members from the board must be selected by the city council
as cross representatives to the airport zoning board of adjustment.
      3.   A majority of the members of the board must be persons representing
the public at large and must not be involved in the business of purchasing or
selling real estate.
   F.   Oath: Each person, upon appointment to the board, must execute an oath
of office at the first meeting of the board following the appointment or at the
city clerk’s office any time prior to the first meeting of the board.
   G.   Terms: The term of office for members of the board is five (5) years or
until such member’s successor is appointed and qualified. The terms of the
cross representative appointees to the airport zoning board of adjustment must
serve a term on the airport zoning board of adjustment which coincides with
their terms on the zoning board of adjustment.
   H.   Vacancies: Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original
appointments.
   I.   Officers/Organization: The board must choose annually a chairperson and
vice chairperson, each to serve a term of one year. The chairperson must
appoint a secretary, who need not be a member of the board. The board must fill
a vacancy among its officers for the remainder of the officer’s unexpired term.
   J.   Meetings:
      1.   Meetings: Meetings may be called by the chairperson or at the
written request of a majority of the members.
      2.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance
with the Iowa open meetings law.
      3.   Attendance:
         a.   In the event a member of the board has been absent for three (3)
or more consecutive meetings of the board, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the board to recommend to the
city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement appointed.
         b.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
      4.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings
of the board must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working days
after approval by the board, or by the next regularly scheduled city council
meeting, whichever is later.
      5.   Quorum: The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board is
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of any
such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under any such ordinance or to effect
any variation in such ordinance.
   K.   Compensation: Members serve without compensation, provided that they
may receive reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on
official board business within the limits established in the city
administrative policies and budget.
   L.   Removal: The city council may remove any member for cause upon written
charges and after a public hearing.
   M.   Powers: The board has the following powers, duties, and
responsibilities:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of Iowa Code chapter 414, as such may be amended
from time to time, or any ordinance adopted pursuant thereto.
      2.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this code upon
which such board is required to pass under such ordinance, in accordance with
the general regulations of the zone in which the property is located and
specific standards contained herein.
      3.   To hear and decide conditional use permits under the terms of this
code upon which such board is required to pass under such ordinance, in
accordance with the general regulations of the zone in which the property is
located and specific standards contained herein.
      4.   To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the
terms of the ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where
owing to special conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of the
ordinance will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of the
ordinance must be observed and substantial justice done.
   In exercising the above mentioned powers such board may, in conformity with
the provisions of this section, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may
modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may
make such order requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made,
and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal
is taken. (Ord. 53-15, 8-17-2015; amd. Ord. 47-16, 9-19-2016; Ord. 41-24, 6-17-
2024)
16-8-2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 69-15, 11-2-2015)
16-8-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 69-15, 11-2-2015)
16-8-4: APPEAL FROM ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL:
16-8-4-1: AUTHORIZATION:
Appeals may be made by any person aggrieved or any municipal officer,
department, board or bureau affected by any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of this
title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-4-2: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Appeals may only be filed within thirty (30) days immediately following the
date of the administrative action which is the subject to the appeal. An appeal
is filed by delivering to the administrative office involved and to the board a
completed notice of appeal, together with the required fee. Official notice of
appeal forms shall be available without cost from the city planner. The notice
of appeal must, in addition to all other information required by the form,
specify the particular grounds for the appeal. The officer from whom the appeal
is taken shall forthwith transmit to the board all documents constituting the
record upon which action appealed from was taken. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-4-3: EFFECT OF APPEAL:
An appeal stays all proceedings in accordance with Iowa Code section 414.11.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-5: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURE:
16-8-5-1: GENERALLY:
The zoning board of adjustment may allow as conditional uses only those uses
classified as conditional uses in this title. No conditional use shall be
allowed in a particular district unless such use is specifically permitted as a
conditional use in the regulations for that district, except as provided in
chapter 4 of this title, and the board shall not act upon any conditional use
permit application unless and until the requirements for each conditional use
within the specific district in which it is located have been met. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-8-5-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   Any person may file an application to use property for one of the
conditional uses permitted in the district in which the property is located.
All applications for a conditional use permit shall be made upon the official
form for such applications which shall be available from the planning services
department.
   B.   Review of the application for a conditional use permit may be obtained
by delivering the completed application form to the planning services
department together with payment of the required fee.
   C.   The board may require the applicant for a conditional use permit to
supply any further information beyond that contained in the application where
it reasonably considers such information necessary to make the determinations
required by section
16-8-5-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-5-3: NOTICE AND MEETING REQUIREMENTS:
Following receipt of the completed application form the board shall, with due
diligence, hold a public meeting to consider the application for a conditional
use permit. Notice of the time and place of the public hearing shall be
published in the newspaper of general circulation at least seven (7) days and
not more than twenty (20) days prior to such hearing. The board shall direct
and require verification that notice of the time and place of the meeting has
been sent by first class mail to all owners of property within two hundred feet
(200') of the property at which the conditional use permit is sought. At the
public meeting, all interested parties shall be afforded a reasonable
opportunity to appear and express their views on the application, either in
person or by agent. A record of such meeting shall be entered into the minutes
of the board. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-5-4: STANDARDS FOR GRANTING CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
No conditional use permit shall be granted unless the board determines on the
basis of specific information presented at the public meeting or contained in
the application for such use that each of the following conditions has been
satisfied:
   A.   The proposed conditional use will comply with all applicable
regulations of this title, including lot requirements, bulk regulations, use
limitations, and all other standards or conditions contained in the provisions
authorizing such use.
   B.   Adequate utility, drainage and other necessary facilities or
improvements have been or will be provided.
   C.   Adequate access roads or entrances and exit drives will be provided and
will be designed so as to prevent traffic hazards and to minimize traffic
conflicts and congestion in public streets and alleys.
   D.   The use shall not commence until applicant has provided written
evidence that all necessary permits and licenses required for the operation of
the conditional use have been obtained.
   E.   All exterior lighting fixtures are shaded wherever necessary to avoid
casting direct light upon any property located in a residential district.
   F.   The location and size of the conditional use, the nature and intensity
of the activities to be involved or conducted in connection with it, the size
of the site in relation thereto, and the location of the site with respect to
streets giving access to the conditional use, shall be such that it will be in
harmony with the appropriate and orderly development of the district and
neighborhood in which it is located.
   G.   The location, nature and height of buildings, structures, walls, and
fences on the site and the nature and extent of landscaping and screening on
the site shall be such that the use will not reasonably hinder or discourage
the appropriate development, use and enjoyment of the adjacent land, buildings
and structures.
   H.   The proposed conditional use will not cause substantial injury to the
value of other property in the neighborhood in which it is located and will
contribute to and promote the convenience and welfare of the public. (Ord. 52-
09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-5-5: CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS ON CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Imposition Of Conditions And Restrictions: In granting a conditional
use permit, the board may impose any conditions or restrictions it reasonably
considers necessary to ensure full compliance with the standards of section
16-8-5-4 of this chapter to reduce or eliminate any detrimental effect of the
proposed conditional use permit upon the neighborhood or the district, or to
carry out the general purposes and intent of this title.
   B.   Modification Of Conditions And Restrictions: Any subsequent change or
modification of a condition or restriction imposed by the zoning board of
adjustment in granting a conditional use permit must be approved in the same
manner and with the same requirements as the original application for a
conditional use permit.
   C.   Violation Of Conditions And Restrictions: A violation of such
conditions and restrictions, when made a part of the terms under which the
conditional use permit is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-5-6: DECISION AND RECORDS:
The board shall render a written decision on an application for a conditional
use permit after the close of the meeting. The decision of the board shall
contain specific findings of fact supporting the granting or denial of the
conditional use permit and shall clearly set forth any conditions or
restrictions imposed pursuant to section
16-8-5-5 of this chapter. The board shall maintain the record of all actions
with respect to applications for conditional use permits and shall notify the
city council of their decisions on each application. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-5-7: PERIOD OF VALIDITY; EXPIRATION:
   A.   No conditional use permit granted by the board shall be valid for a
period longer than two (2) years from the date on which the board grants the
permit, unless within such two (2) year period:
      1.   A building permit is obtained and the erection or alteration of a
structure is started, or
      2.   An occupancy permit is obtained, if required, and the use is
commenced.
   B.   The board may grant a maximum of one extension not exceeding six (6)
months, upon written application, without notice of hearing. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009)
16-8-5-8: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Minimum parking requirements, where applicable, for conditional use permit uses
shall be regulated in conformance with the provisions of chapter 14 of this
title unless otherwise provided by the zoning board of adjustment. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-8-5-9: SIGN REGULATIONS:
Signs for conditional use permit uses shall be regulated in conformance with
the provisions of chapter 15 of this title unless otherwise provided by the
zoning board of adjustment. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-5-10: LIST OF CONDITIONAL USES:
Accessory dwelling unit. One accessory dwelling unit may be allowed on a lot in
the R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-3, R-4, OR, OC, and C-1 districts in accordance with the
following conditions:
   A.   Shall be located on the same zoning lot as the principal dwelling;
   B.   Either the principal dwelling or the accessory dwelling shall be owner-
occupied;
   C.   Shall be incidental and subordinate to the principal dwelling as an
accessory use;
   D.   The principal dwelling shall be a single-family detached dwelling;
   E.   Shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the building footprint of the
principal dwelling or six hundred (600) total gross square feet, whichever is
less;
   F.   Shall be in compliance with all applicable city housing, fire and
building codes for use as a complete, independent living facility with
provisions for a separate entrance, cooking, eating, sanitation, and sleeping;
   G.   Shall comply with the applicable bulk regulations for the district in
which it is located; and
   H.   Shall provide one off street parking space.
Animal hospital/clinic. An animal hospital or clinic may be allowed in the C-
2 and C-2A districts in accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   All operations and activities shall be conducted and maintained within
a completely enclosed building.
Bar or tavern.
   A.   A bar/tavern may be allowed in the CR district in accordance with the
conditions established by the zoning board of adjustment as part of the
ordinance approving such use.
   B.   A bar/tavern may be allowed in the OC district in accordance with the
following conditions:
      1.   A maximum area of two thousand two hundred (2,200) square feet in
gross floor area shall not be exceeded;
      2.   Any outdoor seating shall be accessory to the indoor operation;
      3.   Opaque screening shall be provided for adjacent first floor
residential uses in conformance with the landscaping requirements of chapter 13
of this title.
Bed and breakfast home. A bed and breakfast home may be allowed in the R-1, R-
2, R-2A, R-3, R-4, OR and OC districts in accordance with the following
conditions:
   A.   The structure is either regulated by chapter 10 of this title or is
listed on the national register of historic places;
   B.   When located within the R-1, R-2, R-2A districts, the use shall be
maintained within an owner occupied, single- family dwelling. When located
within the R-3, R-4, OR, or OC district, the use shall be maintained by a full
time resident owner or resident manager;
   C.   The structure has a minimum total floor area of four thousand five
hundred (4,500) square feet, with not more than one sleeping room for each
seven hundred fifty (750) square feet of floor area;
   D.   There shall be a maximum of three (3) sleeping rooms in the R-1 and R-
2A districts, five (5) sleeping rooms in the R-2 district; nine (9) sleeping
rooms in the R-3, R-4, OR and OC districts;
   E.   Signage shall be limited to one wall mounted sign not to exceed six (6)
square feet in area, not internally illuminated, and with direct lighting only
with a cutoff type luminaire;
   F.   The property shall not be used for rental as a private club, museum, or
tour home; and
   G.   Parking shall be provided at a rate of one space per guestroom. The
parking shall be provided on site or on a street frontage of the property, and
should not intensify parking problems in the neighborhood.
Bed and breakfast inn. A bed and breakfast inn may be allowed in the R-4, OR,
and OC districts in accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   The structure is either regulated by chapter 10 of this title or is
listed on the national register of historic places;
   B.   The property has a full time resident owner or resident manager;
   C.   The structure has a minimum total floor area of four thousand five
hundred (4,500) square feet, with not more than one sleeping room for each
seven hundred fifty (750) square feet of floor area, with a maximum of nine (9)
sleeping rooms;
   D.   Signage shall be limited to one wall mounted, projecting sign with not
more than a forty inch (40") projection, or freestanding sign, per street
frontage, not internally illuminated, and with direct lighting only with a
cutoff type luminaire. Signage in the R-4 district shall not exceed six (6)
square feet in area; signage in the OR and OC districts shall not exceed eight
(8) square feet in area;
   E.   The property shall not be used for rental as a private club, museum, or
tour home unless approved by the board; and
   F.   Parking shall be provided at a rate of one space per guestroom. The
parking shall be provided on site or on a street frontage of the property, and
should not intensify parking problems in the neighborhood.
Car wash. A car wash may be allowed in the C-4 district in accordance with the
conditions established by the zoning board of adjustment.
Car wash, self-service. A self-service car wash may be allowed in the C-
2 district in accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   A minimum of three (3) stacking spaces per bay shall be provided;
   B.   Ingress and egress traffic flow shall be acceptable to the city site
plan review team; and
   C.   Opaque screening shall be provided for adjacent residential uses in
conformance with the landscaping requirements of chapter 13 of this title.
Drive-up automated bank teller. A drive-up automated bank teller may be allowed
in the C-4 and CR districts in accordance with the conditions:
   A.   Opaque screening shall be provided to screen the use from adjacent
residential uses in conformance with the landscaping requirements of chapter 13
of this title.
Gas station.
   A.   A gas station may be allowed in the CR district in accordance with the
conditions established by the zoning board of adjustment.
   B.   A gas station may be allowed in the C-1 District in accordance with the
following conditions:
      1.   The use shall not include a service station.
Grain or barge terminal. A grain/barge terminal may be allowed in the MHI
District in accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   A site plan shall be submitted and approved as provided in chapter 12
of this title.
Group home. A group home may be allowed in the R-3, R-4, and OR Districts in
accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   Not less than six hundred fifty (650) square feet of lot area shall be
provided per resident; and
   B.   When located within the R-3 and R-4 Districts, signs shall not be
permitted.
Hospice. A hospice may be allowed in the R-2, R-2A, R-3, and R-4 Districts in
accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   Signs shall not be permitted.
Housing for the elderly or persons with disabilities. A housing facility for
the elderly or persons with disabilities may be allowed in the R-3 and R-
4 Districts in accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   The number of units shall be established by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
Individual zero lot line dwelling. A single-family dwelling may be allowed to
be built on a lot with a zero setback in the R-3 District in accordance with
the following conditions:
   A.   The adjoining property owner, on the zero lot line side, consents to
the property line location and provides written evidence of a minimum five foot
(5') maintenance easement prior to board review;
   B.   The overhang of roofs shall not extend across the property line; and
   C.   A minimum of six feet (6') shall be maintained between homes and other
structures.
Indoor restaurant. An indoor restaurant may be allowed in the C-1 District in
accordance with the conditions established by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
Keeping of horses or ponies. Horses and ponies may be allowed to be kept on
properties located in the R-1 District in accordance with the following
conditions:
   A.   They are located on the same lot as an accessory use to a single-family
residential dwelling;
   B.   A minimum of two (2) acres of property is available for the first horse
or pony;
   C.   A minimum of one and one-half (11/2) acres of additional property is
available for an additional horse or pony, up to a maximum of two (2) horses or
ponies; and
   D.   A shelter of at least one hundred fifty (150) square feet and enclosed
on at least three (3) sides shall be provided on the property.
Kennel. A kennel may be allowed in the AG District in accordance with the
conditions established by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
Licensed adult day services. A licensed adult day services facility may be
allowed in the R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-3, R-4, OR, OS, OC, C-1, C-2, C-2A, C-3, C-4,
C-5, CS, CR, LI, HI, MHI and RROD Districts in accordance with the following
conditions:
   A.   Such facility shall supply loading and unloading spaces so as not to
obstruct public streets or create traffic or safety hazards;
   B.   State certification has been granted or applied for and is awaiting the
outcome of the State's decision; and
   C.   Signage shall be limited to two (2) non-illuminated freestanding signs
not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area and ten feet (10') in height.
Licensed childcare center. A licensed childcare center may be allowed in the R-
1, R-2, R-2A, R-3, R-4, and RROD Districts in accordance with the following
conditions:
   A.   Such facility shall supply loading and unloading spaces so as not to
obstruct public streets or create traffic or safety hazards;
   B.   All licenses have been issued or have been applied for and are awaiting
the outcome of the State's decision; and
   C. When located within the R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-3, R-4, or RROD districts,
signage shall be limited to one (1) non-illuminated, wall mounted sign not to
exceed four (4) square feet in area.
Medical office. A medical office may be allowed in the C-1 District in
accordance with the conditions established by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
Mortuary, funeral home or crematorium. A mortuary, funeral home or crematorium
may be allowed in the R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4 Districts in accordance with the
conditions established by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
Multi-family dwelling thirteen (13) or more units. A multiple- family dwelling
with thirteen (13) or more units may be allowed in the R-4 District in
accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   The number of units shall be established by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
Nursing or convalescent home. A group home may be allowed in the R-3 and R-
4 Districts in accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   The number of units shall be established by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
Off premises residential garage. An off premises residential garage may be
allowed in the R-2A, R-3, R-4, and OR District in accordance with the following
conditions:
   A.   Such use shall be incidental and subordinate to a permitted residential
use and located on a lot within three hundred feet (300') of the residential
use it serves;
   B.   Such use shall be owned and maintained by the property owner of the
residential use it serves;
   C.   Such use shall be designed, constructed and maintained in harmony with
the residential setting in which it is located;
   D.   No such use shall exceed seven hundred twenty (720) square feet of
floor area per dwelling unit served, or have a height in excess of fifteen feet
(15');
   E.   No commercial storage, sales or home based business shall be permitted
within such structure;
   F.   No outside storage shall be permitted in conjunction with such use; and
   G.   A site plan shall be submitted and approved as provided in chapter 12
of this title.
Off street parking. The off street parking of operable automobiles may be
allowed in the R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-3, R-4, C-4, OR, OS, and OC districts in
accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   The off street parking shall only serve an abutting permitted or
conditional use on a lot located in any district except C-4. Off street
parking, when located in the C-4 district, shall only serve an abutting
permitted or conditional use on a lot located within the C-4 district;
   B.   No structure other than a screening or security fence or wall shall be
erected on the premises;
   C.   Signage shall be limited to one freestanding sign of no more than six
(6) square feet in size per drive opening, identifying the parking use,
providing directions or marking entrances and exits thereto;
   D.   A site plan shall be submitted and approved as provided in chapter 12
of this title;
   E.   Such use shall be compatible in design, construction and maintenance
with the residential setting in which it is located; and
   F.   No outside storage shall be permitted in conjunction with such use.
   G.   Within the OC district, the off street parking shall only serve an
abutting permitted or conditional use on a lot located in the OC district.
Signs within the OC district may be no more than eight (8) square feet in size.
Outdoor recreation or outdoor amusement center. An outdoor recreation facility
or outdoor amusement center may be allowed in the C-3 district in accordance
with the following conditions:
   A.   The hours of operation shall be limited, eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, unless further limited by the zoning board of
adjustment.
Passenger transfer facility. A passenger transfer facility may be allowed in
the C-2, C-3, C-4, and C-5 districts in accordance with the following
conditions:
   A.   Such facility shall provide for the loading and unloading of passengers
so as not to obstruct public streets or alleys or create traffic or safety
hazards; and
   B.   That adequate indoor waiting area is provided.
Pet daycare or grooming. A pet daycare may be allowed in the C-2 and C-2A
districts in accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   All operations and activities shall be conducted within a completely
enclosed building.
Photographic studio. A photographic studio may be allowed in the OR district in
accordance with the conditions established by the zoning board of adjustment.
Private club. A private club may be allowed in the OR, OS, and OC districts in
accordance with the conditions established by the zoning board of adjustment.
Quarry. A quarry may be allowed in the AG agriculture district in accordance
with the following conditions:
   A.   Submittal Requirements:
      1.   Name and address of the person/company requesting the conditional
use permit.
      2.   The legal property description and acreage of the area to be
quarried.
      3.   Submittal of an existing conditions map to include existing
vegetation, existing drainage and permanent water areas, existing structures
and existing wells.
      4.   A layout plan depicting the proposed operations to include
structures to be erected, location of sites to be excavated showing depth of
the proposed excavation, location of vehicle access to the public street
system, vehicle parking, and location of storage of explosives.
      5.   A soil erosion and sediment control plan.
      6.   A plan for dust and noise control.
      7.   Any other information requested by the zoning board of adjustment or
city staff.
   B.   New Or Expanded Quarry: The following requirements will apply to a new
or expanded quarry:
      1.   Setbacks:
         a.    Mining and quarry operations, excavation of the quarry face,
processing of materials, and material storage and equipment storage shall not
be conducted closer than one hundred feet (100') to the property line or closer
than three hundred feet (300') to any residential district.
         b.    Mining or quarry operations, and excavation of the quarry face,
shall not be conducted closer than one hundred feet (100') to the right of way
line of an existing or platted street, road or highway, except that excavating
may be conducted within such limits in order to reduce the elevation thereof in
conforming to the existing or platted streets, roadway or highway.
      2.   Storage: All materials storage and equipment storage and/or use
shall be a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from any public road right of
way.
      3.   Parking: The minimum required off street parking will be one space
for each employee plus one space for each vehicle used on site.
      4.   Access Gates: All access points shall be gated and signed with
appropriate warning messages.
      5.   Paving Requirements: All access drives and vehicle parking and
circulation areas connecting the quarry operation with public streets must be
paved in a manner acceptable to the city engineer and city planner. This
requirement is necessary to prevent quarry material from being deposited on
public streets.
      6.   Water Resources:
         a.    The quarry operation shall not be allowed to interfere with
surface water drainage beyond the boundaries of the operation.
         b.    Surface water originating outside and passing through the quarry
shall, as point of departure from the site, be of equal quality of the water
where it enters the site.
      7.   Site Plan Approval: A site plan shall be submitted for review and
approval as provided in chapter 12 of this title with the following conditions:
         a.    After receiving approval for a conditional use permit,
         b.    Prior to the issuance of any building permit,
         c.    Prior to commencement of any construction, grading or other land
development activity.
      8.   State Code Compliance: Applicants desiring to operate a quarry must
meet all requirements from chapters 208 and 101A of the code of Iowa as well as
all other pertinent rules, regulations, or administrative policies as
administered by the office of state fire marshal or other state or federal
agencies.
      9.   Land Rehabilitation: Rehabilitation shall be completed within the
standards prescribed by the Iowa department of natural resources in compliance
with provisions set forth in the code of Iowa.
Recreational use. Recreational uses may be allowed in the POS district in
accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   The use shall not be of a nature which would attract large numbers of
participants requiring the provisions of off street parking; and
   B.   The use may provide permanent equipment or facilities.
Residential use. A residential use may be allowed in the HI, MHI and LI
districts in accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   The building in which the residential use is to be located contains no
existing industrial use and will be prohibited from having an industrial use as
long as the residential use is active; and
   B.   A minimum of six hundred fifty (650) square feet of area be provided
for each unit.
Residential wind energy conversion system. A residential wind energy conversion
system may be allowed in a residential or office district in accordance with
the requirements established in section
16-7-3 of this title.
Restaurant. A restaurant may be allowed in the OC district in accordance with
the following conditions:
   A.   Carryout items shall not be dispensed through any drive-through or
walk-up window;
   B.   Any outdoor seating shall be accessory to the indoor operation; and
   C.   Opaque screening shall be provided for adjacent first floor residential
uses in conformance with the landscaping requirements of chapter 13 of this
title.
Restaurant, drive-in or carryout:
   A.   A drive-in/carryout restaurant may be allowed in the CR district in
accordance with the conditions established by the zoning board of adjustment.
   B.   A drive-in/carryout restaurant may be allowed in the C-2 and C-
4 districts in accordance with the following conditions:
      1.   Opaque screening shall be provided for adjacent residential uses in
conformance with the landscaping requirements of chapter 13 of this title.
Retail sale of agricultural products. The retail sale of agricultural products
may be allowed in the AG district in accordance with the conditions established
by the zoning board of adjustment.
Retail sales and service. A retail sales and service use may be allowed in the
HI district in accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   Retail sales and service activities shall not be permitted in an area
where parking and pedestrian traffic is likely to conflict with on site or
adjacent industrial users; and
   B.   If located within an actively used industrial building, the retail use
is fully separated from any industrial uses.
Rooming or boarding house. A rooming/boarding house may be allowed in the R-3,
R-4, and OR districts in accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   The house provides an on site resident manager; and
   B.   The number of units shall be determined by the zoning board of
adjustment.
Small wind energy conversion system. A small wind energy conversion system may
be allowed in a commercial, industrial, agricultural, planned unit development,
or institutional district in accordance with the requirements established in
section
16-7-3 of this title.
Tour home. A tour home may be allowed in the R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-3, R-4, OR, and
OC districts in accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   The structure is either regulated by chapter 10 of this title or listed
in the national register of historic places; and
   B.   Signage shall be limited to one wall mounted sign, not to exceed six
(6) square feet in area, not internally illuminated, and with direct lighting
only with a cutoff type luminaire.
Tourist home. A tourist home may be allowed in the R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-3, R-4,
and OR districts in accordance with the following conditions:
   A.   Signs shall not be permitted; and
   B.   Maximum occupancy of two (2) persons per bedroom.
Vehicle body shop. A vehicle repair/body shop may be allowed in the C-
4 District in accordance with the conditions established by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
Vehicle sales or rental. A vehicle sales or rental facility may be allowed in
the C-4 District in accordance with the conditions established by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment.
Vehicle service or repair. A vehicle service or repair facility may be allowed
in the C-4 District in accordance with the conditions established by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment.
Winery. A winery may be allowed in the AG District in accordance with the
conditions established by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009; amd. Ord. 47-14, 7-21-2014; Ord. 35-15, 5-18-2015; Ord. 38-17, 8-21-2017;
Ord. 54-19, 12-16-2019; Ord. 20-22, 5-20-2022; Ord. 44-23, 9-18-2023)
16-8-6: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
16-8-6-1: APPLICATION:
   A.   Any person owning property may apply for a variance from the literal
enforcement of the bulk regulation provisions including parking and sign
requirements of this title for the property or structure involved. All
applications for a variance shall be made on the official form for such
applications which shall be available from the Planning Services Department.
   B.   Review of the application for a variance may be obtained by delivering
the completed application form to the Planning Services Department together
with payment of the required fee.
   C.   Prior to its review, the board may require the applicant for a variance
to supply any further information beyond that contained in the application
where it reasonably considers such information necessary to make the
determination. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-6-2: NOTICE AND MEETING REQUIREMENTS:
Following receipt of a completed application the board shall, with due
diligence, consider such application at a public meeting. Notice of the time
and place of the public hearing shall be published in the newspaper of general
circulation at least seven (7) days and not more than twenty (20) days prior to
such hearing. The board shall direct and require verification that notice of
the time and place of the meeting has been sent by first class mail to all
owners of property within two hundred feet (200') of the property for which the
variance is sought. At the public meeting, all interested parties shall be
afforded a reasonable opportunity to appear and express their views on the
application, either in person or by agent. A record of such meeting shall be
entered into the minutes of the board. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-6-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTING OF VARIANCE:
   A.   The board shall grant a variance only under exceptional circumstances
where practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship is so substantial, serious
and compelling that relaxation of the general restrictions ought to be granted.
No variance shall be granted unless the applicant shall show and the board
shall find that:
      1.   The particular property, because of size, shape, topography or other
physical conditions, suffers singular disadvantage, which disadvantage does not
apply to other properties in the vicinity; and
      2.   Because of this disadvantage, the owner is unable to make reasonable
use of the affected property; and
      3.   This disadvantage does not exist because of conditions created by
the owner or previous owners of the property; and
      4.   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant any
special privilege that is denied to other lands, structures, or buildings in
the same district; and
      5.   Granting of the variance will not be contrary to the public
interest, will not adversely affect other property in the vicinity, and will be
in harmony with the intent and purpose of the provision waived.
   B.   In passing a variance, the board shall not consider prospective
financial loss or gain to the applicant.
   C.   A variance shall not be allowed within the RHOD Restricted Height
Overlay District. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-6-4: CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS ATTACHED TO GRANTING OF VARIANCE:
In granting a variance, the board may impose any conditions or restrictions it
reasonably considers necessary to ensure full compliance with the intent and
regulations of the provision waived, to reduce or eliminate any detrimental
effect of the proposed variance upon the neighborhood or the public welfare, or
to carry out the general purposes and intent of the provision waived. Violation
of such conditions and restrictions, when made a part of the terms under which
a variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-8-6-5: DECISIONS AND RECORDS:
The board shall render a written decision on an application for a variance
after the close of the meeting. The decision of the board shall contain
specific findings of fact supporting the granting or denial of the variance and
shall clearly set forth any conditions or restrictions imposed. The board shall
maintain complete records of all action with respect to applications for a
variance. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-7: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS:
16-8-7-1: APPLICATION:
Any person owning property used solely for residential purposes may apply for a
special exception from the literal enforcement of the bulk regulation
requirements for the property or structure involved. All applications for a
special exception shall be made on the official form for such applications
which shall be available without cost from the planning services department.
The applicant shall be required to supply all pertinent items of information
contained on the official application form as a condition to review of such
application. Review of the application for a special exception may be obtained
by delivering the completed application form to the planning services
department together with payment of the required fee. Upon receipt of the
completed forms and the required fee, the planning services department shall
forthwith transmit a copy of the completed form to the board, retaining the
original form as part of the planning services department's permanent records.
Prior to its review, the board may require the applicant for a special
exception to supply any further information beyond that contained in the
application form where it reasonably considers such information necessary to
make the determination. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-7-2: NOTICE AND MEETING REQUIREMENTS:
Following receipt of a completed application the board shall, with due
diligence, consider such application at a public meeting. The board shall
direct and require verification that the applicant, or their agent has sent
notice of the time and place of the meeting by first class mail to all owners
of property abutting the property for which the special exception is sought,
including property directly across the street. At the public meeting, all
interested parties shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to appear and
express their views on the application, either in person or by agent. A record
of such meeting shall be entered into the minutes of the board. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-8-7-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTING SPECIAL EXCEPTION:
The board shall grant a special exception when the applicant has shown that the
following standards have been met or are not applicable:
   A.   That the specific proposed exception will not be detrimental to or
endanger public health, safety, comfort or general welfare.
   B.   That the specific proposed exception will not be injurious to the use
and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes
already permitted, and will not substantially diminish and impair property
values within the neighborhood.
   C.   That establishment of the specific proposed exception will not impede
the normal and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property
for uses permitted in the zone in which such property is located.
   D.   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities are being provided.
   E.   That, except for the specific exception being proposed, any structure
shall in all other respects conform to the applicable regulations or standards
of the zone in which it is to be located. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-7-4: CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS ATTACHED TO GRANTING SPECIAL EXCEPTION:
In granting a special exception, the board may impose any conditions or
restrictions it reasonably considers necessary to ensure full compliance with
the standards of this title, to reduce or eliminate any detrimental effect of
the proposed special exception on the neighborhood or the public welfare, or to
carry out the general purpose and intent of this title. Violation of such
conditions and restrictions, when made a part of the terms under which a
special exception is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title. (Ord.
52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-7-5: DECISIONS AND RECORDS:
The board shall render a written decision on an application for a special
exception after the close of the public meeting. The decision of the board
shall contain specific findings of fact supporting the granting or denial of
the special exception and shall clearly set forth any conditions or
restrictions imposed pursuant to this title. The board shall maintain complete
records of all action with respect to applications for a special exception.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-8-8: APPEAL FROM BOARD DECISION:
Appeals from action or decision of the board shall be made in the manner
provided by state law. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 9
ZONING ADVISORY COMMISSION APPLICATIONS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
16-9-1: Zoning Advisory Commission
16-9-2: General Powers
16-9-3: Organization, Meetings
16-9-4: Procedures Of Operation
16-9-5: Zoning Reclassification
16-9-5-1: Application Requirements
16-9-5-2: Zoning Advisory Commission Action
16-9-5-3: City Council Action
16-9-6: Text Amendment Procedure
16-9-6-1: Text Amendment
16-9-6-2: Application Requirements
16-9-6-3: Zoning Advisory Commission Action
16-9-6-4: City Council Action
16-9-7: Public Hearings
16-9-8: Notice Of Zoning Advisory Commission Hearings
16-9-1: ZONING ADVISORY COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Created: There is hereby created the zoning advisory
commission.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the commission is to make recommendations to
the city council on applications for rezoning, subdivision plat approval, and
text amendments to the zoning ordinance; to receive input from applicants,
neighboring property owners, citizens, and city staff; to review applications
in terms of their impact on the neighborhood, community, environment, and the
city's utilities and transportation systems; and to forward to the city council
the commission's recommendations with the assistance of planning services
staff.
   C.   Internal Organization And Rules: The commission may adopt rules and
regulations to govern its organizational procedures as may be necessary and
which are not in conflict with this code or the Iowa Code.
   D.   Procedures For Operation: All administrative, personnel, accounting,
budgetary, and procurement policies of the city govern the commission in all
its operations.
   E.   Membership:
      1.   Number Of Commissioners: The commission comprises seven (7)
residents of the city, appointed by the city council.
      2.   Qualifications:
         a.   Members must be qualified by knowledge, experience, and ability
to act in matters pertaining to short range planning and zoning, none of whom
hold an elective position in the city.
         b.   Two (2) members of the zoning advisory commission must be
selected by the city council to serve on the airport zoning advisory
commission.
   F.   Oath: Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an
oath of office at the first meeting of the commission or at the city clerk's
office any time prior to the first meeting of the commission.
   G.   Terms: The term of office for commissioners is three (3) years or until
such commissioner's successor is appointed and qualified. The terms of the
cross representative appointees to the airport zoning advisory commission must
coincide with their terms on the Airport Zoning Advisory Commission.
   H.   Vacancies: Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original
appointments.
   I.   Officers/Organization: The Commissioners must choose annually a
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson, each to serve a term of one year. The
Chairperson must appoint a Secretary, who need not be a member of the
commission. The Commissioners must fill a vacancy among its officers for the
remainder of the officer's unexpired term. (Ord. 43-15, 7-6-2015)
   J.   Meetings:
      1.   Meetings: Meetings may be called by the Chairperson or at the
written request of a majority of the Commissioners.
      2.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance
with the Iowa Open Meetings Law.
      3.   Attendance:
         a.   In the event a Commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
Chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the City Council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
         b.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
      4.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings
of the commission must be filed with the City Council within ten (10) working
days after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled City
Council meeting, whichever is later.
      5.   Quorum: Four (4) Commissioners constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the
Commissioners present and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or
resolution.
   K.   Compensation: Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that
they may receive reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on
official commission business within the limits established in the City
administrative policies budget.
   L.   Removal: The City Council may remove any Commissioner for cause upon
written charges and after a public hearing.
   M.   Powers: The commission has the following powers, duties, and
responsibilities:
      1.   To prepare and recommend a zoning ordinance to exercise the powers
conferred by State law. Such zoning ordinance must include the boundaries of
the various zoning districts; the height, number of stories, and size of
buildings and other structures in each district; the percentage of ground that
may be occupied; setback requirements; the size of yards, courts, and other
open space; the density of population; the location and use of buildings,
structures, and land for trade, industry, commercial, residential, or other
purposes; and such regulations and restrictions necessary to enforce such
zoning provisions. To this end the commission must prepare a preliminary zoning
ordinance and hold public hearings thereon and after such hearings have been
held, and submit a final zoning ordinance and its recommendations to the City
Council;
      2.   To recommend to the City Council, from time to time, as conditions
require, amendments, supplements, changes, or modifications to the zoning
ordinance but only after a public hearing;
      3.   To make such surveys, studies, maps, plans, or plats of the whole or
any portion of the City and of any land outside thereof, which in the opinion
of the commission are consistent with the comprehensive plan and are necessary
to carry out the purposes of the commission;
      4.   To make recommendations to the City Council upon plans, plats, or
replats of subdivisions or resubdivisions within the City which show streets,
alleys, or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated for public use;
      5.   To make recommendations to the Long Range Planning Advisory
Commission on the preparation and maintenance of the comprehensive plan;
      6.   To fulfill those duties and responsibilities assigned to a City
Planning Commission in State law; and
      7.   To undertake from time to time other specific short range planning
projects which may be referred to it by the City Council.
   N.   Waiver From Site Design Standards: The commission has the power to
grant such waivers from the site design standards of this Code, as may be
reasonable and within the general purpose and intent of the site plan review
and approval provisions of this Code if the literal enforcement of one or more
provisions of this Code is impracticable or will exact an undue hardship
because of peculiar conditions pertaining to the land in question. The
affirmative vote of at least four (4) Commissioners shall be necessary to grant
a waiver. The waiver may be granted subject to such conditions as the
commission may establish to ensure the general purpose and intent of the
provisions of this Code are followed. At the commission meeting, the applicant
and all other interested parties must be presented a reasonable opportunity to
present their views. Decisions of the commission may be appealed to the Zoning
Board of Adjustment in the same manner as appeals from a decision of an
Administrative Officer. (Ord. 43-15, 7-6-2015; amd. Ord. 48-16, 9-19-2016; Ord.
2-19, 1-22-2019; Ord. 40-24, 6-17-2024)
16-9-2: GENERAL POWERS:
   A.   The Zoning Advisory Commission shall concern itself with short range
physical planning and shall have and possess the following powers, duties and
responsibilities:
      1.   To prepare and recommend a zoning ordinance by exercising the powers
conferred by State law. Such zoning ordinance shall include the boundaries of
the various zoning districts; the height, number of stories and size of
buildings and other structures in each district; the percentage of ground that
may be occupied; setback requirements; the size of yards, courts and other open
space; the density of population; the location and use of buildings,
structures, and land for trade, industry, commercial, residential or other
purposes; and such regulations and restrictions necessary to enforce such
zoning provisions. To this end the Zoning Advisory Commission shall prepare a
preliminary zoning ordinance and hold public hearings thereon and after such
hearings have been held, shall submit a final zoning ordinance and its
recommendations to the City Council.
      2.   To recommend to the City Council, from time to time, as conditions
require, amendments, supplements, changes or modifications to the zoning
ordinance but only after a public hearing.
      3.   To make such surveys, studies, maps, plans or plats of the whole or
any portion of the City and of any land outside thereof, which in the opinion
of the Zoning Advisory Commission are consistent with the comprehensive plan
and are necessary to carry out the purposes of the commission.
      4.   To make recommendations to the City Council upon plans, plats or
replats of subdivisions or resubdivisions within the City which show streets,
alleys or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated for public use.
      5.   To make recommendations to the Long Range Planning Advisory
Commission on the preparation and maintenance of the comprehensive plan.
      6.   To fulfill those duties and responsibilities assigned to a City
Planning Commission in State law.
      7.   To undertake from time to time other specific short range planning
projects which may be referred to it by the City Council.
   B.   The City Council shall have the authority to establish or revise the
priorities of the commission. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-9-3: ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS:
   A.   The Zoning Advisory Commission shall choose annually, at its first
regular meeting of the fiscal year, one of its members to act as Chairperson,
and another of its members to act as Vice Chairperson, to perform all of the
duties of the Chairperson during the Chairperson's absence or disability. The
commission shall adopt such rules and regulations governing its operation and
procedure as may be deemed necessary.
   B.   Meetings of the Zoning Advisory Commission shall be held the first
Wednesday of the month or at the call of the Chairperson and at such other
times as the commission may determine.
   C.   Members of the Zoning Advisory Commission shall attend at least two-
thirds (2/3) of all regularly scheduled meetings within any twelve (12) month
period. If any member fails to attend such prescribed number of meetings, such
failure shall constitute grounds for the commission to recommend to the City
Council that said member be replaced. Attendance of all members shall be
entered on the minutes.
   D.   All meetings shall be held in conformance with the provisions of the
Iowa Open Meetings Law.
   E.   The Zoning Advisory Commission shall file with the City Clerk a copy of
the minutes of each regular and special meeting of the commission within ten
(10) working days after each such meeting. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-9-4: PROCEDURES OF OPERATION:
All administrative, personnel, accounting, budgetary and procurement policies
of the City shall govern the Zoning Advisory Commission in all its operations,
except as herein provided. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-9-5: ZONING RECLASSIFICATION:
   A.   The City Council finds that the reclassification of property is a
sensitive and important legislative function which, in the interest of
maintaining uniform zoning policies and the integrity of the comprehensive
plan, should only be exercised sparingly and under proper conditions. For this
reason, and because the original zoning district boundaries under this title
are presumed to be correct and appropriate, it shall hereafter be the policy of
the City to reclassify property only where a clear showing has been made that
the original classification was a mistake or that circumstances and conditions
affecting the property in question have so materially changed so as to demand
reclassification in the public interest.
   B.   The reclassification procedures outlined herein should not be confused
with, or used in place of, the amendment process or the variance process. Thus,
the Council intends that reclassification of property should not be entertained
where: 1) an alleged hardship peculiar to the property is claimed, which is
more properly the subject of a variance request; or 2) it is alleged that the
provisions themselves as applied to similar properties are unreasonable, which
is more properly the subject of a text amendment proposal. In all cases, the
burden shall be upon the person(s) seeking reclassification to demonstrate that
the requested reclassification is more appropriate than the present
classification, in light of the characteristics of the property and the public
welfare.
   C.   Furthermore, it is contemplated under this title that the Long Range
Planning Advisory Commission is, in the first instance, the body responsible
for the formulation and continuing review of the comprehensive plan, as
expressed herein, and this commission shall be charged with the duty of
periodically reviewing the policies and provisions of this title in light of
its purposes and changing conditions, and proposing on its own initiative such
district reclassifications or Code amendments as may be deemed appropriate to
secure the public welfare. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-9-5-1: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any person may request a reclassification of property to another
district, regardless of such person's interest in the property, by submitting a
completed zoning reclassification application together with the required fee,
to the Planning Services Department.
   B.   The applicant may submit a written request to withdraw the
reclassification application at any time prior to final action by the City
Council. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-9-5-2: ZONING ADVISORY COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   The Zoning Advisory Commission shall consider a reclassification
request at a public hearing. Following the public hearing, the Zoning Advisory
Commission shall act to recommend approval or denial of the request or table
the request. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
   B.   The recommendation of the commission shall forthwith be transmitted to
the Council for its action. (Ord. 2-19, 1-22-2019)
16-9-5-3: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
   A.   Public Hearing: Following receipt of any recommendation of the
commission, the City Clerk shall cause a notice to be published of the date,
time and place for the City Council to hold a public hearing on the requested
reclassification.
   B.   Adopt, Table Or Reject Request: Following the public hearing, the
Council shall act to adopt, table or reject the reclassification request. In
cases where the commission has recommended disapproval of the reclassification,
the vote of at least three-fourths (3/4) of the Council shall be required to
enact the reclassification.
   C.   Written Protest Against Request: Furthermore, in case of a written
protest against the reclassification request which is filed with the City Clerk
and signed by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of the area of the
lots included in the request, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more
of the property which is located within two hundred feet (200') of the exterior
boundaries of the property being considered for reclassification, such request
shall not be enacted except by the favorable vote of at least three-fourths (3/
4) of the Council. Property owned by the City or located in the public right-
of-way shall not be considered in the above calculation of twenty percent (20%)
area of property ownership. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 7-11, 1-18-2011;
Ord. 11-21, 4-19-2021)
16-9-6: TEXT AMENDMENT PROCEDURE:
16-9-6-1: TEXT AMENDMENT:
Text amendments are intended for wholesale changes to the zoning regulations,
as a means for the City to respond to changing conditions and emerging trends
in the community. Text amendments are not property specific. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009)
16-9-6-2: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Any person may propose amendments to the provisions of this title by delivering
a copy of the proposed amendment to the Planning Services Department. The
applicant may submit a written request to withdraw the text amendment
application at any time prior to final action by the City Council. (Ord. 2-19,
1-22-2019)
16-9-6-3: ZONING ADVISORY COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   The Zoning Advisory Commission shall consider a text amendment request
at a public hearing. Following the public hearing, the Zoning Advisory
Commission shall act to recommend approval or denial of the request, or table
the request.
   B.   The commission's recommendations shall be forthwith transmitted to the
Council for its action. (Ord. 2-19, 1-22-2019)
16-9-6-4: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
   A.   Following receipt of the Zoning Advisory Commission's recommendation,
the City Council shall act to hold its own public hearing on the proposed
amendment.
   B.   Following the public hearing, the Council shall adopt, table or reject
the proposed amendment. In those cases where the Zoning Advisory Commission has
recommended disapproval of the amendment, the affirmative vote of at least
three-fourths (3/4) of the City Council shall be required to enact the
amendment. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-9-7: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
At all public hearings required by this title to be held by the Zoning Advisory
Commission or City Council, all interested persons shall have an opportunity to
express their opinions on the subject matter at hand, either in person or by
agent, subject in all cases to reasonable rules of procedure. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009)
16-9-8: NOTICE OF ZONING ADVISORY COMMISSION HEARINGS:
   A.   Notice of the time and place of all public hearings to be held by the
Zoning Advisory Commission shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City at least seven (7) days and not more than twenty (20)
days prior to the date of the hearing.
   B.   A reasonable effort shall be made to notify by mail those property
owners whose property is being considered for reclassification and those owners
of adjacent property and other parcels within two hundred feet (200')
therefrom, prior to the first public hearing in which the reclassification
request will be considered. Where the commission has a public hearing on a
reclassification request, the commission shall direct and require verification
that the applicant or their agent has taken responsible steps to give notice of
the time, place, and subject of the hearing by first class mail to all property
owners within two hundred feet (200') of the property for which
reclassification is requested, and to the owner(s) of the property included in
such request. The commission may require, at its discretion and at the
applicant's expense, notification of owners of property located more than two
hundred feet (200') from the subject property and of other parties with a
direct interest in the reclassification requested.
   C.   Only one mailing shall be required in any event, and mail notice by the
Council shall not be required. In all cases, however, the notice shall be
mailed not less than seven (7) days and not more than twenty (20) days prior to
the public hearing announced therein. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 10
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION APPLICATIONS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
16-10-1: Historic Preservation Commission
16-10-2: Definitions
16-10-3: Identification And Designation Of Landmarks, Sites And Historic
Districts
16-10-4: Designated Landmarks, Sites And Historic Districts
16-10-5: Demolition Of Landmarks, Landmark Sites And Structures In Historic
Districts And Conservation Districts
16-10-6: Alteration Of Landmarks, Historic Properties And Sites
16-10-7: Standards For Design Review
16-10-8: Conservation Districts
16-10-9: Conservation Planning Areas
16-10-10: Appeals From Commission Action
16-10-11: Inspection
16-10-12: Violations; Penalties
16-10-1: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Created: There is hereby created the historic preservation
commission.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the commission is to:
      1.   Promote the educational, cultural, economic, and general welfare of
the public through the protection, enhancement, and perpetuation of districts,
individually designated historic properties, landmarks, and landmark sites of
prehistoric, historic, architectural, archaeological, and cultural
significance;
      2.   Safeguard the city's prehistoric, historic, aesthetic,
architectural, archaeological and cultural heritage by preserving historic
properties, districts, landmarks, and landmark sites of historical,
architectural, and cultural significance;
      3.   Stabilize and improve property values;
      4.   Foster civil pride in the legacy of beauty and achievements of the
past;
      5.   Protect and enhance the city's attractions to tourists and visitors
and the support and stimulus to business thereby provided;
      6.   Strengthen the economy of the city; and
      7.   Promote the use of properties, districts, landmarks, and landmark
sites of prehistoric, historic, architectural, archaeological, and cultural
significance as sites for the education, pleasure, and welfare of the people of
the city.
   C.   Internal Organization And Rules: The commission may adopt rules and
regulations to govern its organizational procedures as may be necessary and
which are not in conflict with this code or the Iowa Code.
   D.   Procedures For Operation: All administrative, personnel, accounting,
budgetary, and procurement policies of the city govern the commission in all
its operations.
   E.   Membership:
      1.   Number: The commission comprises nine (9) residents of the city,
appointed by the city council.
      2.   Special Qualifications:
         a.   One resident from each designated historic preservation district,
including historic districts hereinafter established.
         b.   Four (4) at large members.
         c.   Each member must possess qualifications evidencing expertise or
interest in architecture, history, archaeology, law, construction, building
rehabilitation, city planning, or conservation in general.
         d.   One member must be a licensed architect.
      3.   Compliance With Iowa Code: Membership on the commission must comply
with the provisions of Iowa Code section 303.34, subsection 3, relating to
establishment of a commission to deal with matters involving areas of
historical significance.
   F.   Oath: Each person, upon appointment to the commission, must execute an
oath of office at the first meeting of the commission following the appointment
or at the city clerk's office any time prior to the first meeting of the
commission.
   G.   Terms: The term of office for a commissioner is three (3) years or
until such commissioner's successor is appointed and qualified.
   H.   Vacancies: Vacancies must be filled in the same manner as original
appointments. In the event that a vacancy occurs in a seat which requires that
the appointee be a resident of a historic preservation district and for which
there is no application from a qualified resident, the city council must
appoint a tenth commissioner, which appointment is temporary, and upon
appointment of a qualified resident to the vacancy, the temporary appointment
terminates.
   I.   Officers/Organization: The commissioners must elect from its membership
a chairperson and vice chairperson, whose terms of office are fixed by bylaws
adopted by the commission. The chairperson presides over the meetings of the
commission and has the right to vote. The vice chairperson, in cases of absence
or disability of the chairperson, may perform the duties of the chairperson.
The city manager must designate a city employee to serve as secretary to the
commission. The secretary must keep a record of all resolutions, proceedings,
and actions of the commission.
   J.   Meetings:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The commission must meet at least three (3) times
in a calendar year to maintain certified local government status.
      2.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the chairperson
or at the written request of a majority of the commissioners.
      3.   Open Meetings: All meetings must be called and held in conformance
with the Iowa open meetings law.
      4.   Attendance:
         a.   In the event a commissioner has been absent for three (3) or more
consecutive meetings of the commission, without being excused by the
chairperson, such absence will be grounds for the commission to recommend to
the city council that the position be declared vacant and a replacement
appointed.
         b.   Attendance must be entered upon the minutes of all meetings.
      5.   Minutes: A copy of the minutes of all regular and special meetings
of the commission must be filed with the city council within ten (10) working
days after approval by the commission, or by the next regularly scheduled city
council meeting, whichever is later.
      6.   Quorum: Five (5) commissioners constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the
commissioners present and voting is necessary for the adoption of any motion or
resolution.
   K.   Compensation: Commissioners serve without compensation, provided that
they may receive reimbursement for necessary travel and other expenses while on
official commission business within the limits established in the city
administrative policies and budget.
   L.   Removal: The city council may remove any commissioner for cause upon
written charges and after a public hearing.
   M.   Powers: The commission has the following powers, duties, and
responsibilities:
      1.   To promote and conduct educational and interpretive programs on
historic properties within its jurisdiction.
      2.   To develop and adopt specific standards for review and design
guidelines, in addition to those set forth in section
16-10-4 of this chapter, for the alteration of landmarks, landmark sites,
individually designated historic properties and property and structures within
historic districts.
      3.   To adopt its own bylaws.
      4.   To identify, evaluate, register, manage and protect significant
prehistoric and historic archaeological sites.
      5.   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify historically,
archaeologically and architecturally significant properties, structures and
areas that exemplify the cultural, social, economic, political, archaeological
or architectural history of the nation, state or city.
      6.   To research and recommend to the city council the adoption of
ordinances designating areas as having historic, architectural, archaeological
or cultural value or significance as historic districts.
      7.   To research and recommend to the city council the adoption of
ordinances designating properties or structures having historic, architectural,
archaeological or cultural value or significance as landmarks or landmark
sites.
      8.   To research and recommend to the city council the adoption of
ordinances designating properties as having historic, architectural,
archaeological or cultural value or significance as individually designated
historic properties.
      9.   To research and recommend to the city council the adoption of
ordinances designating areas as having historic, architectural, archaeological
or cultural value as "conservation districts".
      10.   To research and recommend to the city council the adoption of
ordinances designating areas as having historic, architectural, archaeological
or cultural value as "conservation planning areas".
      11.   To maintain a register of all properties and structures which have
been designated as landmarks, landmark sites or historic districts, including
all information required for each designation.
      12.   To assist and encourage the nomination of landmarks, landmark sites
and historic districts to the national register of historic places, and review
and comment at a public hearing on any national register nomination submitted
to the commission upon the request of the mayor, city council or the state
historic preservation office.
      13.   To confer recognition upon the owners of landmarks, individually
designated historic properties or of property or structures within historic
districts.
      14.   To review in progress or completed work to determine compliance
with specific certificates of appropriateness or certificates of economic
nonviability.
      15.   To serve as an advisory design review body to the city council for
review of public works projects which have historic preservation implications
in historic districts, individually designated historic properties, or for
alteration of landmarks, landmark sites or structures, that would result in a
material change in appearance or be visible from the public way.
      16.   To serve as an advisory review body to the city council for the
review of public planning, design, construction, and maintenance needs in
conservation planning areas upon request from the city council. (Ord. 40-15, 6-
1-2015; amd. Ord. 31-24, 6-17-2024)
16-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them below:
ALTERATION: Any act or process which changes the exterior architectural
appearance or exterior feature of a structure, site or area, including, but not
limited to, the erection, construction, reconstruction, restoration, removal or
demolition of any structure or part thereof, excavation, or the addition of an
improvement.
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: A determination based on the following criteria:
   A.   The site is associated with events that have made a significant
contribution to, and are identified with, or that outstandingly represent, the
broad cultural patterns of U.S. history and from which an understanding and
appreciation of those patterns may be gained; or
   B.   The site is associated importantly with the lives of persons nationally
significant in U.S. history; or
   C.   The site represents some great idea or ideal of the American people; or
   D.   The site embodies the distinguishing characteristics of an
architectural type or specimen exceptionally valuable for a study of a period,
style or method of construction, or that represents a significant, distinctive
and exceptional entity whose components may lack individual distinction; or
   E.   The site is composed of integral parts of the environment not
sufficiently significant by reason of historical association or artistic merit
to warrant individual recognition, but collectively compose an entity of
exceptionally historical or artistic significance, or outstandingly commemorate
or illustrate a way of life or culture; or
   F.   The site has yielded or may be likely to yield information of major
scientific importance by revealing new cultures, or by shedding light upon
periods of occupation over large areas of the U.S. Such sites are those which
have yielded, or which may reasonably be expected to yield data affecting
theories, concepts and ideas to a major degree.
ARCHITECTURAL INTEREST: A determination that a building, structure, property,
object, site or area that has sufficient integrity of location, design,
materials and workmanship to make it worthy of preservation or restoration.
ARCHITECTURAL SIGNIFICANCE: A determination based on the following criteria:
   A.   The structure(s) is (are) the work of, or associated with, a nationally
or locally noted architect, architectural firm, engineer, builder or craftsman;
or
   B.   The structure(s) is (are) an example of a particular period of
architecture or architectural style in terms of detail, material, method of
construction or workmanship, with no or negligible irreversible alterations to
the original structure; or
   C.   The structure(s) is (are) one of the few remaining examples of a
particular architectural style; or
   D.   The structure(s) is (are) one of a contiguous group of structures which
have a sense of cohesiveness which is expressed through a similarity of
characteristics, a similarity of a style, a similarity of period, a similarity
of method of construction or which accent the architectural significance of the
area.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy, typically for any form of human activity. A building also may
refer to a historically and functionally related unit, such as a courthouse and
jail or a house and barn. Examples of buildings include: carriage house,
church, garage, hotel, house, library, school, shed, store or theater.
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS: A document issued by the historic preservation
commission indicating its approval of plans for an alteration or activity which
will:
   A.   Create a material change in appearance, or the removal or demolition,
of a landmark, landmark site or of a structure within a historic district; and
   B.   Require a regulated permit.
CERTIFICATE OF ECONOMIC NONVIABILITY: A document issued by the historic
preservation commission which acknowledges an exception as herein defined and
which authorizes an alteration or activity:
   A.   Which creates a material change in appearance, or the removal or
demolition, of a landmark, landmark site or of a structure within a historic
district;
   B.   Which requires a regulated permit; and
   C.   For which a certificate of appropriateness has been or would be denied;
however, a certificate of economic nonviability may be issued only upon a
showing that the property owner will be deprived of any reasonable economic
return on the property if not allowed to proceed with the requested alteration
or activity.
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE: A prominent or distinctive aspect, quality, or
characteristic of a cultural landscape or historic building, site, structure,
object, or district that contributes significantly to its physical character.
COMMISSION: The Dubuque historic preservation commission, as established by
this chapter.
CONSERVATION DISTRICT: An area designated by ordinances of the city council
which:
   A.   Has defined geographic boundaries;
   B.   Contains contiguous pieces of property under diverse ownership;
   C.   Encompasses areas of historically and architecturally significant
buildings, sites, structures, objects, or districts, including potential
national or local historic districts; and
   D.   Is important to maintain and preserve for its economic and social value
and as a neighborhood or area of affordable housing.
CONSERVATION PLANNING AREA: An area designated by ordinances of the city
council which:
   A.   Has defined geographic boundaries;
   B.   Contains areas within a historical, architectural or archaeological
survey;
   C.   Has a history of good overall maintenance and where architectural
interest is high; and
   D.   The city of Dubuque has undertaken the study of the area.
CONTRIBUTING BUILDING: A contributing building, site, structure, or object adds
to the historic architectural qualities, historic or traditional cultural
associations, or archaeological values for which a property is significant
because:
   A.   It was present during the period of significance or does not relate to
the documented significance of the property; or
   B.   Despite alterations, disturbances, additions, or other changes, it
still possesses historical integrity or is capable of yielding important
information about the period; or
   C.   It independently meets one or more of the national register of historic
places criteria; or
   D.   It has been identified as contributing in a historical, architectural,
or archaeological survey.
CULTURAL SIGNIFICANCE: A determination based on the following criteria:
   A.   The role a property, cultural landscape, building, site, structure,
object, or district plays in a community's historically rooted beliefs,
customs, and practices; or
   B.   Its association with events, or series of events, significant to the
cultural traditions of a community.
DEMOLITION: Any act or process which destroys in part or in whole a landmark or
a structure.
DESIGN GUIDELINE: A standard of acceptable activity which will preserve the
prehistoric, historic, architectural, archaeological and cultural character of
a building, district, landmark, site, object or structure.
DETERMINATION OF NO MATERIAL EFFECT: A document issued by the city planner
indicating approval for any normal "repair" or act of maintenance as defined by
this chapter, which:
   A.   Is not an "alteration", construction, removal, "demolition" or
"excavation" as defined by this chapter;
   B.   Does not create a material change in the exterior architectural
appearance or exterior features of a structure or site; and
   C.   Nonetheless does require a regulated permit.
DISTRICT: A definable geographic area that can be distinguished from
surrounding properties, and which possesses a significant concentration,
linkage, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures or objects united
historically or aesthetically by plan or physical development.
EXCAVATION: The digging out or removal of earth, soil.
EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE: The architectural style and character and
the general composition and arrangement of the exterior of a building or
structure, including character defining features.
EXTERIOR FEATURES: The architectural style and the general design and
arrangement of the exterior of a structure, including, but not limited to, the
kind and texture of the building material(s), and the type, style and
arrangement of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs and other appurtenant
elements, or the natural features of a landmark, landmark site or structure. In
the case of outdoor advertising signs, "exterior feature" includes the style,
material, size and location of the sign.
HISTORIC DISTRICT: An area designated by ordinances of the city council which:
   A.   Has defined geographic boundaries;
   B.   Contains contiguous pieces of property under diverse ownership; and
   C.   Is one or more of the following:
      1.    Significant to American history, architecture, prehistoric or
historic archaeology or culture; or
      2.    Possesses integrity of location, design, setting, materials,
workmanship, feel and association; or
      3.    Associated with events that have been a significant contribution to
the broad patterns of prehistory or history; or
      4.    Associated with the lives of persons significant with the past; or
      5.    Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or
method of construction; or
      6.    Represents the work of a master; or
      7.    Possesses high artistic values; or
      8.    Represents a significant and distinguishable entity whose
components may lack individual distinction; or
      9.    Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important to
prehistory and history.
HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE: A determination based on the following criteria:
   A.   The structure(s) or site(s) has (have) a strong association with the
life or activities of a person or persons who have contributed to or
participated in the historic events of the nation, state or community; or
   B.   The structure(s) or site(s) is (are) associated with an association or
group (whether formal or informal) which has contributed to or participated in
historic events of the nation, state or community; or
   C.   The structure(s) or site(s) or object(s) is (are) associated with an
antiquated use due to technological or social changes in the nation, state or
community, such as, but not limited to, a blacksmith's shop or railroad
trestle; or
   D.   The site(s) or object(s) is (are) a monument to or a cemetery of
historic personages.
IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, parking facility, fence, gate, wall, work
of art or other object constituting a physical betterment of real property, or
part of such betterment.
INDIVIDUALLY DESIGNATED HISTORIC PROPERTIES: Historical designation offered for
individual properties determined to have prehistoric, historic, architectural,
archaeological and cultural significance and which are not of a landmark status
or located within a historic district.
INTEGRITY: The original, unaltered or historically altered appearance of a
structure, site or area when taken as a whole.
LANDMARK: A property or structure designated by ordinance of the city council
pursuant to procedures described herein, that is worthy of preservation,
rehabilitation or restoration because of its prehistoric, historic,
architectural, archaeological or cultural significance to the city, the state
or nation.
LANDMARK SITE: Any parcel of land of prehistoric or historic archaeological
significance, or historic significance due to its substantial value in tracing
the prehistory or history of Native Americans, or upon which a historic event
has occurred, and which has been designated as a landmark site under this
chapter, or an improvement parcel, or part thereof, on which is situated a
landmark and any abutting improvement parcel, or part thereof, used as and
constituting part of the premises on which the landmark is situated.
MATERIAL CHANGE OF APPEARANCE: Any change, alteration or modification of the
external architectural appearance or exterior features of a building,
improvement, structure or property which is visible from the public way and for
which a regulated permit is required for compliance with applicable local
codes, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Changes in the exterior size, configuration, fenestration or other
structural features of the property; or
   B.   Construction or reconstruction; or
   C.   Demolition; or
   D.   Any alteration in the size, location or appearance of any sign on the
property; or
   E.   Any excavation on property or the deposit of any waste, fill or other
material on property.
   F.   For individual historic districts, the definition of "material change
of appearance" may be expanded to include additional activities for which a
certificate of appropriateness is required. Such additional activities shall be
delineated in the ordinance designating an individual district or by amending
the district designating ordinance, in the case of a district that has been
previously designated.
NONCONTRIBUTING BUILDING: A noncontributing building, site, structure, or
object does not add to the historic architectural qualities, historic or
traditional cultural associations, or archaeological values for which a
property is significant because:
   A.   It was not present during the period of significance or does not relate
to the documented significance of the property; or
   B.   Due to alterations, disturbances, additions, or other changes, it no
longer possesses integrity or is incapable of yielding important information
about the period; or
   C.   It does not independently meet one or more of the national register of
historic places criteria.
OBJECT: As distinguished from buildings and structures, objects are those
constructions that are primarily artistic in nature or are relatively small in
scale and simply constructed. Although it may be, by nature or design, movable,
an object is associated with a specific setting or environment. Examples of
objects include: fountain, milepost, monument, sculpture or statuary.
OWNER OF RECORD: Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity listed as
owner on the records of the Dubuque County recorder.
PREHISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE: A determination based on the following criteria:
   A.   That a property, cultural landscape, building, site, structure, object,
or district has yielded or may be likely to yield, information important in
prehistory; or
   B.   That property, cultural landscape, building, site, structure, object,
or district provides a diagnostic assemblage of artifacts for a particular
cultural group or time period or that provides chronological control (specific
dates or relative order in time) for a series of cultural groups.
PRESERVATION ALTERNATIVES: Financial incentives and restoration alternatives
sufficient for the property owner to earn a reasonable economic return.
Financial incentives include, but are not limited to, financing, tax credits,
tax abatements, preservation grants or other similar incentives. Restoration
alternatives include, but are not limited to, different materials, techniques
or methods for rehabilitation of historic buildings and structures, or
archaeological sites.
REGULATED PERMIT: An official document or certificate issued by the building
official, city engineer or other official of the city pursuant to provisions of
the building code or other ordinance or regulation, and which authorized the
performance of a specified activity.
REPAIR: Any change which does not require a building permit, and which is not
construction, removal or demolition.
SCALE: In a building or structure, the relationship of the vertical, horizontal
and volume measurements; the relationship of the parts to one another within a
building, or structure or in comparison to other buildings or structures within
that vicinity.
SITE: The location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historic occupation
or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined, or vanished,
where the location itself possesses historic, cultural, or archaeological value
regardless of the value of any existing structure. Examples of sites include:
cemetery, designed landscape, habitation site, natural feature having cultural
significance, rock carving, rock shelter, ruins, trail or village site.
STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICE: State agency which identifies, records,
collects, preserves, manages, and provides access to Iowa's historical
resources and educates, conducts and stimulates research, disseminates
information, and encourages and supports historic preservation and education
efforts of others throughout the state.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
permanent or temporary location on or in the ground, including, but not limited
to, the following: earthwork, fences, gazebos, advertising signs, billboards,
backstops for tennis courts, radio and television antennas, including
supporting towers, and swimming pools. As distinguished from buildings,
structures are those functional constructions made usually for purposes other
than creating human shelter.
VISIBILITY FROM THE PUBLIC WAY: Any portion of a building or structure that is
visible to a person while standing on an adjacent improved public street,
alley, sidewalk or step. Temporary structures or vegetation shall not be
considered as obstructions to the visibility from the public way. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
16-10-3: IDENTIFICATION AND DESIGNATION OF LANDMARKS, SITES AND HISTORIC
DISTRICTS:
   A.   Generally: The commission conducts studies for the identification and
nomination of landmarks, landmark sites, "individually designated historic
properties" and historic districts, as defined by this chapter. The commission
may proceed on its own initiative or upon a petition from any person, group or
association.
   B.   Nomination:
      1.   Landmarks And Landmark Sites: The nomination of landmarks and
landmark sites shall be initiated by an application submitted to the commission
by the property owner on a form supplied by the commission.
      2.   Historic Districts: The designation of historic districts must be
initiated by a nomination for such designation. A nomination is made to the
commission on a form prepared by the commission and may be submitted by a
member of the commission, the owner of record of property within a proposed
historic district, the city council, or any other person or organization. When
a commissioner, as a private citizen, nominates a historic district for
designation, the nominating commissioner shall abstain from voting on the
designation. This provision does not extend to a designation motion presented
by a commissioner as part of commission proceedings.
      3.   Individually Designated Historic Properties: The nomination of
individually designated historic properties must be initiated by an application
submitted to the commission by the property owner on a form supplied by the
commission.
   C.   Criteria For Consideration Of Nomination: The commission will, upon
such investigation as it deems necessary, make a determination as to the
following:
      1.   Whether the nominated property, structure, object, site or area:
(Ord. 25-14, 3-17-2014; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
         a.   Is of "architectural significance", as defined by this chapter;
or
         b.   Is associated with events that have made a significant
contribution to the broad patterns of the history of the city of Dubuque,
Dubuque County, the state of Iowa or the nation; or
         c.   Is associated with the lives of persons significant in the past
of the city of Dubuque, Dubuque County, the state of Iowa or the nation; or
         d.   Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
prehistory or history; and (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
      2.   Whether the structure, property, object, site or area has sufficient
integrity of location, design, materials and workmanship to make it worthy of
preservation or restoration; and/or
      3.   Whether the structure, property, object, site or area is at least
fifty (50) years old, unless the commission determines that it has achieved
significance within the past fifty (50) years and is of exceptional importance.
   D.   Notification Of Nomination: Within sixty (60) days after receipt of a
completed nomination in proper form, the commission must meet to review the
nomination. Notice that a nomination for designation is being considered and
the date, time, place and purpose of the meeting must be sent by certified
mail, at least fourteen (14) days prior to the date of the hearing, to the
owner(s) of record of the nominated landmark or landmark site, nominated
individually designated historic property, or property within the nominated
historic district and to the nominator(s). Notice must also be published in a
newspaper having general circulation in the city. The notice must state the
street address and legal description of a nominated landmark or landmark site
or the boundaries of a nominated district.
   E.   Meeting: The commission may, at its discretion, accept oral or written
testimony concerning the significance of the nominated landmark, landmark site
or historic district from any interested person. The commission may request
expert testimony, consider staff reports or present its own evidence regarding
the compliance of the nominated landmark, landmark site, individually
designated historic property or historic district with the criteria set forth
in subsection C of this section. The owner of any nominated landmark, landmark
site, individually designated historic property or of any property within a
nominated historic district shall be allowed a reasonable opportunity to
present evidence regarding the nomination.
   F.   Determination By Commission, Recommendation And Report: Within thirty
(30) days following the commission's meeting, the commission will determine
whether the nominated landmark, landmark site, individually designated historic
property or historic district meets the criteria for designation. Such
determination is made in an open meeting by resolution of the commission, in
the form of a written recommendation and a written report in support of the
nomination. The commission's recommendation on the nomination of a landmark,
landmark site, individually designated historic property or historic district,
and its supporting report, will be transmitted to the city council, with a
proposed ordinance or amendment establishing such landmark, landmark site,
individually designated historic property or historic district and describing
its location and boundaries by address and legal description.
   G.   Action By City Council:
      1.   The city council must submit the proposed ordinance or amendment to
the state historic preservation office for review and recommendations at least
thirty (30) days prior to the date of any public hearing conducted by the city
council. The city will make any recommendations made by the state historic
preservation office available to the public for viewing during normal working
hours at a city government place of public access.
      2.   Upon receipt of the recommendation and report of the commission, and
after having received a recommendation from the state historic preservation
office or if the thirty (30) day waiting period has lapsed since submission of
the request for such recommendation, the city council will conduct a public
hearing on the ordinance or amendment establishing the proposed landmark,
landmark site, individually designated historic property or historic
preservation district. After public hearing, the city council will approve or
disapprove the ordinance or amendment, or refer the nomination back to the
commission for modification. A modified nomination requires compliance with the
same procedure for designation as set forth above.
      3.   City council approval of the ordinance or amendment constitutes
designation of the landmark, landmark site, individually designated historic
property or historic district.
   H.   Amendment And Rescission Of Designation: A designation may be amended
or rescinded upon petition to the commission and compliance with the same
procedure and criteria as set forth above for designation. (Ord. 25-14, 3-17-
2014; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
16-10-4: DESIGNATED LANDMARKS, SITES AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS:
   A.   Historic Districts:
      1.   Langworthy Historic Preservation District: The properties
hereinafter described are hereby designated as a historic preservation
district, according to the provisions of this chapter:
All of Lots 1 through 3, inclusive; all of Lot 4 excepting the northerly ten
(10) feet thereof, all of the south half of Lot 6; all of Lots 12 through 16,
inclusive; and all of Lots 12A through 16A, inclusive; all being in Paulina
Langworthy's Addition. The west fifteen (15) feet of lot 4; all of Lot 5, and
Lot 6; all being in McCoy Subdivision. All of Lots 1 through 6, inclusively, of
Lot 2 and Lot 3; all of Lot 4; and all of Lots 5 through 8, inclusive,
excepting the northerly twelve (12) feet of all of them; all being in Mrs. L.
A. Langworthy's Addition. All of Lots 1 through 12, inclusive; all of Lots 17
through 21, inclusive; and all of Lots 9 through 53, inclusive; all being in
Julia Langworthy's Addition. Lots 1 through 4, inclusive; Lot 1 of Lot 6; Lots
28 through 32, inclusive; Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 33; and Lot 1 of Lot 2
of Lot 2 of Lot 33; all being in T. S. Nairn's Dubuque Addition.
      2.   Old Main Historic Preservation District: The properties hereinafter
described are hereby designated as a historic preservation district, according
to the provisions of this chapter:
All of city Lots 1 through 12, inclusive; all of city Lots 69 through 80,
inclusive; and the south sixty-four (64) feet of Lot 1 Block XV of Dubuque
Downtown Plaza.
      3.   Jackson Park Historic Preservation District: The properties
hereinafter described are hereby designated as a historic preservation
district, according to the provisions of this chapter:
Beginning at the intersection of West 17th and Heeb Streets, north along Heeb
Street to the south line of M.A. Rebman's Sub.; west along said line and the
south line of Duncan's Sub. to the west line of Lot 4-C.L. six hundred seventy-
four (674) feet; south along said line to the south line of Lot 2-5-C.L. 674;
west along said line and along the south line of Lot 1-5-C.L. 674 to Main
Street; west across Main Street and Madison Avenue to the north line of Lot 5-
2-C.L. 673; continuing west along said line to the west line of said lot; south
along said line to Dorgan Place; west along Dorgan Place to the east line of
Lot 1-1A-Dorgan's Sub.; southwest along said line and along the east line of
Lot 1-1-Dorgan's Sub. and its extension of West 17th Street; first south then
in a counterclockwise manner along the westerly line of D.N. Cooley's Sub. and
its southerly extension to the north line of Lot 1-1-C.L. 667; east along said
line to the east line of said lot; south along said line and the east line of
Lot 2-3-C.L. 667 to the south along said line of Lot 2-1-C.L. 667; east along
said line to Bluff Street; south along Bluff Street to the south line of A.L.
Brown's Sub.; west along said line to the east line of Lot 769B of A.
McDaniel's Sub.; south along said line and the east right-of-way line of Grove
Terrace and the east line of Corkery's Sub. to the north line of Lorimer's
Sub.; east along said line to the east line of Lot 1-1-1 and 11 of Lorimer's
Sub.; south along said line and its extension to West 9th Street; east along
West 9th Street to Locust Street; north along Locust Street to West 10th
Street; east along West 10th Street to the alley between Locust and Main
Streets; north along said alley to West 13th Street; east along West 13th
Street to Main Street; south along Main Street to the south line of the north
1/5-C.L. 465; east along said line and its extension to the east line of the
west 33 feet, north 1/5-C.L. 460; north along said line to West 13th Street;
east along West 13th Street to Iowa Street; north along Iowa Street to West
14th Street; east along West 14th Street to the alley between Iowa Street and
Central Avenue; north along said alley to West 17th Street; east along West
17th Street to Heeb Street, the point of beginning.
      4.   Cathedral Historic Preservation District: The properties hereinafter
described are hereby designated as a historic preservation district, according
to provisions of this chapter:
Beginning at the intersection of Locust Street and West 7th Street; southwest
along West 7th Street to Bluff Street; northwest along Bluff Street to the
northwest line of Lot 5-C.L. 653A; southwest along said line to the southwest
line of said lot; southeast along said line to the northwest line of the north
fifty (50) feet of Lot 1-1-C.L. 653; southwest along said line to the northeast
line of Coriell's Dubuque Sub.; first southeast then in a clockwise manner
along said line to West 5th Street; southeast along West 5th Street; to the
northwest line of the west one hundred seven and five-tenths (107.5) feet-west
one hundred seventy (170) feet- C.L. 624; southwest along said line to the
northeast line of Cooper Heights Sub.; southeast along said line and along the
northeast line of Lot 1-1-1-1C.L. 692 to the north right-of-way line of West
4th Street; southwest along said right-of-way line and along the northwest line
of Lot 2-1-1-1-C.L. 692 to Raymond Place; southeast along Raymond Place to the
northwest line of Fenelon Point Sub.; first northeast then in a clockwise
manner along said line to the southwest line of Lot 1-E. seventy-eight and
five-tenths (78.5) feet south one hundred (100) feet-C.L. 692; southeast along
said line to West 3rd Street to the southwest line of Saint Raphael's Add.;
southwest along said line to the northwest line of Lot 1-2-C.L. 694; first
northeast then in a clockwise manner along said line to the northwesterly most
line of Pixler Place; northeast along said line to the west right-of-way line
of Bluff Street; southeast across Bluff Street to the northeast line of C.L.
589A; continuing southeast along the northeast line of C.L. 589A and the
northeast line of C.L. 589 and the northeast line of the north twenty-one (21)
feet-north 1/2 C.L. 572 to Locust Street; northeast along Locust Street to the
southwest line of the south fifty (50) feet-C.L. 568; northwest along said line
to Bissell Lane; north along Bissell Lane to West 4th Street; northeast along
West 4th Street to Locust Street; northwest along Locust Street to West 7th
Street, the place of beginning as described herein.
      5.   West 11th Street Historic Preservation District: The properties
hereinafter described are hereby designated as a historic preservation
district, according to provisions of this chapter:
Beginning at the intersection of Loras Boulevard and Bluff Street; south along
Bluff Street to the south line of A.L. Brown's Sub.; west along said south line
to the east line of Lot 769B of A. McDaniel's Sub.; south along said east line
and along the east right-of-way line of Grove Terrace and along the east line
of Corkery's Sub. to the north line of Lorimer's Sub.; east along said north
line to the east line of Lot 1-1-1-11-Lorimer's Sub.; south along said east
line and its southerly extension to West 9th Street; west along West 9th Street
to the west line of Central Addition; north along said west line to the south
line of the east twenty-seven (27) feet-Lot 3-C.L. 703; west along said south
line to the west line of said lot; north along said west line to the north line
of the west one hundred thirty-nine (139) feet-Lot 3-C.L. 703; west along said
north line to the east line of Lot 2-46A-Farley's Sub.; north along said east
line to Wilbur Street; west along Wilbur Street to the west line of Lot 2-46A-
Farley's Sub.; south along said west line to the south line of Lot 1-46-
Farley's Sub.; west along said south line and along the south line of Lot 1-45-
Farley's Sub. to the west line of said Lot 1-45; north along said west line to
Wilbur Street; west along Wilbur Street to Spruce Street; south along Spruce
Street to the south line of Lot 2-43-Farley's Sub.; west along said south line
to the east line of the south eighty (80) feet-Lot 37-Farley's Sub.; north
along said east line to the north line of said lot; west along said north line
to the east line of Lot 38-Farley's Sub.; north along said east line to
Jefferson Street; west along Jefferson Street and along the south line of Lot
2-1-1-3-C.L. 738 to the west line of Lot 2-1-1-3-C.L. 738; north along said
west line and along the west line of Lot 1-1-1-3-C.L. 738 and along the west
line of Lot 2-1-3-C.L. 738 and along the west line of Lot 1-2-1-C.L. 738; to
West 11th Street; east along West 11th Street to the west line of Lot 12 of
Cummin's Sub.; north along the west lines of Lots 11, 10, 9 and 8 of Cummin's
Sub.; north across Race Street; north along the west line of Lot 6 of Cummin's
Sub. to Chestnut Street; west along Chestnut Street to the west property line
of Lot 8 of Bissell's Dubuque; north along the west property lines of Lots 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of Bissell's Dubuque and the E. 150' of Lot 5 of C.L.
740; east along the north line of the E. 150' of Lot 5 of C.L. 740 to Walnut
Street; north along Walnut Street to Loras Boulevard; east along Loras
Boulevard to Henion Street; north along Henion Street to Pickett Street; east
along Pickett Street to the east line of Lot 2-7-C.L. 667; south along said
east line to the south line of Lot 1-4-C.L. 667; first east line then in a
counter-clockwise manner along the southerly lines of Lot 1-4-C.L. 667 and Lot
1-3-C.L. 667 to the west line of Lot 2-1-C.L. 667; south along said west line
of the south line of Lot 2-1-C.L. 667; east along said south line to Bluff
Street; south along Bluff Street to Loras Boulevard, the place of beginning.
   B.   Landmarks And Landmark Sites:
      1.   William M. Black Landmark: The structure hereinafter described is
hereby designated as a landmark, according to the provisions of this chapter:
Sidewheeler Dredge William M. Black moored at Inner Levee of the Mississippi
River, commonly known as the Ice Harbor.
      2.   Dubuque City Hall Landmark: The property hereinafter described is
hereby designated as a landmark, according to the provisions of this chapter:
The building situated on the N 2/5 of City Lot 448 and the N 2/5 of City Lot
457, commonly known as 50 West 13th Street.
      3.   Dubuque County Courthouse Landmark: The property hereinafter
described is hereby designated as a landmark, according to the provisions of
this chapter:
The building situated on part of City Lot 286 and City Lots 287 to 288,
commonly known as 720 Central Avenue.
      4.   Dubuque County Jail Landmark: The property hereinafter described is
hereby designated as a landmark, according to the provisions of this chapter:
The building situated on City Lots 284 to 285 and part of City Lot 286,
commonly known as 36 West 8th Street.
      5.   Julien Dubuque Monument Landmark: The property hereinafter described
is hereby designated as a landmark, according to the provisions of this
chapter:
The structure situated on Pt. Lot 1, Government Lots 1 and 2, located at
terminus of Monument Drive.
      6.   Mathias Ham House Landmark: The property hereinafter described is
hereby designated as a landmark, according to the provisions of this chapter:
The building situated on Lot 1 of Lot 531 Ham's Addition, commonly known as
2241 Lincoln Avenue.
      7.   Shot Tower: The property hereinafter described is hereby designated
as a landmark, according to the provisions of this chapter:
The Shot Tower structure situated on River Front Sub 1, located at terminus of
Commercial Street.
      8.   Four Mounds Estate Landmark Site: The property hereinafter described
is hereby designated as a landmark site, according to the provisions of this
chapter:
The buildings, structures, objects, sites, and property situated on Lot 1-1-2-
1 & Lot 1-1-2-1-1 of SW-NW & Gov 1 & min Lot 331 & Lot 1-7-SW & Lot 2-NW-NW all
in Sec 1 of T89N-R2E & Lot 1 & Lot 2-1-1-1 of Sub of 1-7 SW and SW of NW Sec 1
T89N-R2E & Gov Lot 1 a/k/a min Lot 331 & Lot 1-1-4, 2-2-4, 2-1-2-4, Lot 2 & 3
of SW Sec 1 of T89N-R2E & Lot 1 Fountain Hill re-sub & Lot 16 John Deere Dub
Tractor Works & Lot 2-1-1-2-2 of SE 1/4 NE 1/4 Sec 2 of T89N-R2E 5th, commonly
known as 4900 Peru Road.
      9.   Carnegie Stout Public Library: The property hereinafter described is
hereby designated as a landmark, according to the provisions of this chapter:
The buildings situated on City Lot 658A, City Lot 659, City Lot 660, balance of
City Lot 658, commonly known as 360 West 11th Street.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
      10.   White Water Creek Bridge: The property hereinafter described is
hereby designated as a landmark, according to the provisions of this chapter:
The span of bridge situated on Lot H Dubuque Industrial Center West Final Plat,
commonly known as the Bergfeld Recreation Area, 7600 Chavenelle Drive.
(Ord. 4-12, 2-6-2012; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
      11.   Eagle Point Park: The property hereinafter described is hereby
designated as a landmark site, according to the provisions of this chapter:
The buildings, structures, objects, sites, and property situated on Lot 2-1-2,
Lot 1-1-1-1-2-3, Lot 2-1-1-2-3, Lot 2-1-2-3, Lot 1, Lot 2-2-2-3 All of Mineral
Lot 310; Lot 1 of Mineral Lot 308; Lot 1 & 2 of Subdivision of 3 of Mineral Lot
305a; Lot 4, Lot 1-1-1-1-1-1-1 of Mineral Lot 305a; Lot 1-1-1-1 of 305a Except
That Part That Lies Easterly of the Railroad Tracks And Westerly of the Lock
and Dam & Riverlot 2-4 of Eaglepoint #2; Lot 2-221, Lot 1-222 & Lots 223 & 224
Julien Addition; Lots 529 Thru 534 Hams Addition; Lots 2-6, Lot 2-1-6 and Parts
of Lots 107 to 124 All In Fountain Hill Resubdivision; Lot 1, Lot 1a, Lot 2-3-
2, Lot 2-1-4, Lot 2-6, Lot 7, Lot 2-2-3, Lot 2-4, Lot 2-1-3, Lot 3-1-4, And Lot
2-1-2-3 All of Mineral Lot 312; Lot 2-1 Block 3 Orchard Hills; Lot 2-2 of
Mineral Lot 305a; All in Section 7 - Township 89 North - Range 3 East, commonly
known as 2601 Shiras Avenue.
(Ord. 32-19, 7-15-2019)
   C.   Individually Designated Historic Properties: The properties hereinafter
described are hereby designated as individually designated historic properties,
according to provisions of this chapter:
      1.   The buildings, structures, objects, sites, and property situated on
E 1/2 Lot 36, E 15' W 1/2 Lot 36, Lot 37 Prospect Hill Addition, commonly known
as 565 Fenelon Place.
      2.   The buildings, structures, objects, sites and property situated on
Lots 22 & 23 and the N 46 feet of Lot 25 LH Langworthy's Sub, also known as 216
Clarke Drive.
      3.   The buildings, structures, objects, sites and property situated on
Lots 16 and 17 of the West 1/2 of Block 1 of Dubuque Harbor Company Addition to
the City of Dubuque, Iowa, also known as 40 & 42 Main Street. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
      4.   The buildings, structures, objects, sites and property situated on
Lot 20 Staffords Add., also known as 2537 Windsor Avenue.
      5.   The buildings, structures, objects, sites and property situated on
Lots 13, 14 & 15 of W 1/2 Blk 1 Dubuque Harbor Co. Add., also known as 44 Main
Street. (Ord. 3-10, 1-19-2010; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
16-10-5: DEMOLITION OF LANDMARKS, LANDMARK SITES AND STRUCTURES IN HISTORIC
DISTRICTS AND CONSERVATION DISTRICTS:
   A.   Demolition Generally: Demolition of landmarks, landmark sites,
individually designated historic properties or structures within historic
districts, and structures in conservation districts is prohibited unless, upon
application and after hearing, the commission issues a certificate of
appropriateness or a certificate of economic nonviability pursuant to this
section.
   B.   Demolition By Neglect Prohibited: The owner of a building or structure
in any historic or conservation district, or of a landmark or landmark site, or
individually designated historic property must keep in good repair all the
exterior portions of such buildings or structures and all interior portions
thereof whose maintenance is necessary to prevent deterioration and decay of
any exterior portion and comply with all other provisions of law requiring
property and improvements to be kept in good repair. The owner must repair the
building or structure to correct any of the following defects as determined by
the city building official: (Ord. 26-14, 3-17-2014; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
      1.   Parts which are improperly or inadequately attached so that they may
fall and injure persons or property;
      2.   A deteriorated or inadequate foundation;
      3.   Defective or deteriorated floor supports or floor supports that are
insufficient to carry the loads imposed;
      4.   Walls, partitions, or other vertical supports that split, lean,
list, or buckle due to defect or deterioration or are insufficient to carry the
load imposed;
      5.   Ceilings, roofs, ceiling or roof supports, or other horizontal
members which sag, split, or buckle, due to defect or deterioration or are
insufficient to support the load imposed;
      6.   Fireplaces and chimneys which list, bulge, or settle due to defect
or deterioration or are of insufficient size or strength to carry the loads
imposed;
      7.   Deteriorated, crumbling, or loose exterior stucco or mortar;
      8.   Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs,
foundations, or floors, including broken windows and doors;
      9.   Defective or lack of weather protection for exterior wall coverings,
foundations or floors, including broken windows and doors;
      10.   Any default, defect, or condition in the structure which renders it
structurally unsafe or not properly watertight;
      11.   Deterioration of any exterior feature so as to create a hazardous
condition which could make demolition necessary for the public safety;
      12.   Deterioration or removal after the effective date hereof of any
unique architectural feature which would detract from the original
architectural style;
      13.   Deterioration of exterior stairs, porches, handrails, window and
door frames, cornices, wall facings, and architectural details that cause
instability, loss of shape and form, or crumbling;
      14.   Rotting, holes, and other forms of decay; or
      15.   Leaving a building or structure open or vulnerable to vandalism,
decay by the elements, or animal and/or insect infestation.
   C.   Emergency/Hazard Removal: In the event that a building or structure
becomes damaged by fire, or other calamity or disaster, to such an extent that
the building official determines it cannot reasonably be repaired and restored,
or it poses an immediate risk to public safety and well being, after
consultation with a licensed architect or engineer in determining whether a
building or structure can be reasonably repaired, stabilized or restored, any
portion thereof may be removed in conformance with applicable laws. (Ord. 52-
09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
   D.   Review Of Demolition Permits: Upon receiving an application for a
demolition permit for any building subject to this section, the building
official must immediately notify the planning services department of such
application. If the application is for any building with one or more dwelling
units, the building official must also immediately notify the housing and
community development department. The applicant must file the information
required in this section with the historic preservation commission at the
office of the planning services department by the application deadline
established by the commission. If the application is for any building with one
or more dwelling units, the planning services department must provide the filed
information to the housing and community development department.
      1.   At its next regular meeting, the commission will approve or deny the
application, or table the application for additional information for a
specified period not to exceed ninety (90) days from the date of application
with the commission. Failure of the commission to take action on the
application within the ninety (90) day period, unless the applicant requests
and the commission grants an extension of such time, constitutes commission
approval thereof.
      2.   The commission will review all information submitted by the
applicant and, if the application is for any building with one or more dwelling
units, all information submitted by the housing and community development
department, and make a determination as to the following:
         a.   Whether the building proposed for demolition has historic or
architectural significance to the community; and
         b.   Whether denial of the proposed demolition permit would prevent
the property owner from earning a reasonable economic return on the property.
      3.   If the commission finds that denial of the application would prevent
the property owner from earning a reasonable economic return on the property,
or that the building does not have any historical or architectural significance
to the community, the commission will approve the application.
      4.   If the commission finds that denial of the application would not
prevent the property owner from earning a reasonable economic return on the
property, and that the building has historical or architectural significance to
the community, the commission will deny the permit application.
      5.   If the applicant is the state of Iowa or a political subdivision of
the state, the city council will also make a determination as to whether the
denial of the application would prevent the state or the political subdivision
from accomplishing its governmental functions as follows:
         a.   If, after weighing the interests and attempting to accommodate
all conflicting governmental interests, the city council finds that denial of
the application would prevent the state or the political subdivision from
accomplishing its governmental functions, the city council will approve the
application.
         b.   If, after weighing the interests and attempting to accommodate
all conflicting governmental interests, the city council finds that denial of
the application would not prevent the state or the political subdivision from
accomplishing its governmental functions, the city council may deny the
application.
      6.   If the city council denies the application, it will state its
findings in writing and shall transmit a copy of such findings to the
applicant.
   E.   Standards For Demolition Review:
      1.   The report, "Heritage Of Dubuque", dated March 1974, and filed on
record on January 27, 1975, is a comprehensive study for the historical
preservation and conservation of the city and one of the guides to be
considered at such time as a demolition permit is applied for under this
section. The city of Dubuque's historic property inventory and any subsequent
official architectural/historical surveys/evaluations and nominations to the
national register of historic places prepared for any buildings located within
the conservation districts described in subsection A of this section are also
guidelines at such time.
      2.   In determining whether a building has historic or architectural
significance, the commission considers an application for a demolition permit
in accordance with the standards for review set forth in the secretary of the
interior's "standards for identification and evaluation", and any subsequent
revisions of these standards and guidelines by the secretary of the interior.
The commission also considers a determination from the state historical
preservation office as to the potential eligibility for listing of the building
proposed for demolition on the national register of historic places.
   F.   Economic Guidelines And Review Criteria:
      1.   In determining whether to approve or deny the application, the
commission may consider the information set forth in this subsection. The
commission may also investigate strategies which would allow the property owner
to earn a reasonable economic return on the property, may solicit expert
testimony, and may require that the applicant make submissions concerning any
or all of the following information:
         a.   A bid from a qualified contractor showing the cost of the
proposed demolition.
         b.   A report from a licensed engineer, architect or contractor with
experience in rehabilitation as to the structural integrity of the structure(s)
that the applicant proposes to demolish.
         c.   The appraised value of the property by a licensed appraiser for
the following conditions:
            (1)   In the property's current condition;
            (2)   After completion of the proposed demolition;
            (3)   After rehabilitation of the existing property for continued
use by providing sales for the previous six (6) months for at least three (3)
comparable properties. If there are not sales for the previous six (6) months
at comparable properties, sales for the previous year at comparable properties
may be used; and
            (4)   If the property is an income producing property, such
valuation must include the rent scheduled and anticipated income after such
rehabilitation, and the same for at least three (3) comparable properties to
substantiate the information provided for the property in question.
         d.   An estimate from an architect, developer, contractor, or
appraiser experienced in rehabilitation as to the cost to rehabilitate the
building to the point of which a reasonable use or a reasonable profit can be
realized from the property, including, but not limited to, bringing a building
up to code so it can be occupied, not necessarily its "highest and best use",
preferred use, or a restoration project.
         e.   The amount paid for the property, the date of purchase, and the
person from whom the property was purchased, a description of the relationship,
if any, if any between the owner of record, the applicant and the person from
whom the property was purchased or is being purchased, and the terms of the
purchase or proposed purchase, including financing.
         f.   If the property is income producing, copies of the 1040 schedule
E or other appropriate forms and/or schedules filed with the IRS for the
previous two (2) years. Such forms must include operation and maintenance
expenses, depreciation deduction and annual cash flow before and after debt
service, if any. Such forms must be signed by the current property owner to
certify their authenticity. If such forms/statements are not available, income
statements from a certified public accountant or licensed public accountant on
letterhead and signed may be substituted.
         g.   The name of all mortgagees and the balance of all mortgages or
other financing secured by the property and annual debt service, if any, for
the previous two (2) years. Debt service is the amount of principal and
interest payments paid annually on the property.
         h.   All appraisals obtained within the previous two (2) years by the
owner or applicant in connection with the purchase, financing and ownership of
the property.
         i.   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, the price asked and
offers received for sale or rent, if any, within the previous five (5) years.
         j.   The assessed value of the property for the previous two (2)
assessment years.
         k.   The amount of real estate taxes assessed for the previous two (2)
assessment years and whether or not they have been paid.
         l.   The form of ownership or operation of the property, whether sole
proprietorship, for profit or not for profit corporation, limited partnership,
joint venture or other.
         m.   Any other information considered necessary by the commission to
determine whether the property yields or may yield a reasonable economic return
to the property owner(s). A "reasonable economic return" is defined as the cost
to rehabilitate the building to the point at which a reasonable use or a
reasonable profit can be realized from the property. This may mean bringing a
building up to code to the point at which it can be occupied, not necessarily
to its "highest and best use", preferred use or a restoration project.
         n.   Proof of the applicant's efforts to obtain financing, tax
incentives, preservation grants and other incentives to allow the applicant to
earn a reasonable economic return from the property.
         o.   Documents detailing the applicant's efforts in ongoing
maintenance and repair. This may include, but is not limited to, tax statements
and/or copies of invoices.
      2.   If the application is for any building with one or more dwelling
units, the housing and community development department may also make
submissions concerning any or all of the above information, including
strategies which would allow the property owner to earn a reasonable economic
return on the property. The commission will consider such information.
   G.   Guidelines And Review Criteria For Applications By State Or Political
Subdivision Of State:
      1.   In determining whether to approve or deny the application, the
commission may consider the information set forth in this subsection and any
other information the commission considers relevant to balancing any
conflicting governmental interests.
      2.   The commission may require that the applicant make submissions
concerning the following information for the proposed site and suitable
alternative location(s), including, but not limited to:
         a.   Fair market value of property.
         b.   Estimate of the cost of the proposed demolition, including
hazardous material removal and remediation.
         c.   Fair market value of any property owned by the governmental body
that could be sold if that site is not chosen for the project.
         d.   Property tax impact of removing private property from the tax
rolls at the proposed location and all alternative locations.
         e.   Any other factors that contribute to making one location more
suitable than others for the proposed use.
         f.   Any other information appropriate to evaluating how all
conflicting governmental interests may be accommodated.
         g.   The need for the use in question, the effect on neighboring
property, and the environmental impact of the proposed use.
   H.   Action: If the commission fails to take action to approve, deny or
withhold action on the application within the ninety (90) day period, or such
extension as requested by the applicant, the building official will issue the
permit forthwith. (Ord. 26-14, 3-17-2014; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
16-10-6: ALTERATION OF LANDMARKS, HISTORIC PROPERTIES AND SITES:
   A.   No regulated permit or site plan approval for the alteration of
landmarks, individually designated historic properties, landmark sites or
structures in historic districts may be issued prior to review and action by
the commission unless a determination of no material effect has been made in
accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-
2015)
   B.   Nothing in this chapter may be construed to prevent ordinary
maintenance or repair of any landmark, landmark site or structure or site
within a historic district where such maintenance or repair does not involve a
material change of appearance which necessitates issuance of a regulated permit
or site plan approval.
   C.   An application for a regulated permit or site plan approval must be
made to the appropriate city official. The application must state or the
appropriate city official will determine whether the proposed work or activity
is to be done on a landmark, landmark site, individually designated historic
property or on a structure within a historic district.
   D.   If the application demonstrates no material effect as recognized by
this chapter, then the city planner may issue a determination of no material
effect, which authorizes the proposed work or activity to proceed. If a permit
application does not demonstrate compliance with the standards for a
determination of no material effect, then an application must be made for
commission review of the proposed work or activity. The application for
commission review will be filed in the planning services department.
   E.   Unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the
commission, the commission will, within sixty (60) days after submittal of a
complete application, review the proposed work or activity to determine whether
it complies with the standards specified in this chapter. In the event the
commission does not approve or deny an application within sixty (60) days after
submittal of a complete application, such application is deemed approved by the
commission, unless the applicant has consented to an extension of the sixty
(60) day period. The commission will issue a certificate of appropriateness if,
after conducting a review of the application, it finds: (Ord. 27-14, 3-17-2014;
amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
      1.   That the property owner or the property owner's representative has
established that the proposed work or activity complies with the standards
specified in this chapter and conforms to the purpose and intent of this
chapter; and
      2.   That creating, changing, destroying or affecting the exterior
architectural features of the structure, improvement or site upon which the
work is to be done will not have a substantial adverse effect on the aesthetic,
historic or architectural significance and value of either the property itself
or of the neighboring improvements in a district.
      3.   In reviewing the proposed work or activity, the commission may
confer with the applicant or the applicant's authorized representative. The
commission may require submission of such additional drawings, sketches,
photographs or other exhibits, as it deems reasonably necessary for
consideration of the application. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-
1-2015)
   F.   The issuance of a certificate of appropriateness enables the applicant
to obtain a regulated permit or site plan approval and to proceed with the
proposed work or activity.
   G.   If the commission denies the proposed work or activity, it must state
its reasons and transmit to the applicant a written record of its denial. The
commission may propose revisions to the applicant's proposal, which, if adopted
by the applicant, may cause the commission to reconsider its denial. The
applicant may modify the proposed project and resubmit a modified proposal at
any time.
   H.   The commission will also issue a certificate of appropriateness, if,
after conducting a review of preservation alternatives, it finds: (Ord. 27-14,
3-17-2014; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
      1.   That the property owner or the property owner's representative has
established that the preservation alternatives for the proposed work or
activity conform to the purpose and intent of this chapter; and
      2.   That creating, changing, destroying or affecting the exterior
architectural features of the structure, improvement or site upon which the
work or activity is to be done will not have a substantial adverse effect on
the aesthetic, historic or architectural significance and value of either the
property itself or of the neighboring improvements in a district. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
   I.   Prior to filing an application for a certificate of economic
nonviability, as provided for in subsection J of this section, the applicant
must file an application for a review of preservation alternatives. This
application documents the applicant's attempts to evaluate and obtain
"preservation alternatives", including, but not limited to, financing, tax
incentives, preservation grants, restoration alternatives and other incentives
sufficient to allow the applicant to earn a reasonable economic return from the
property.
      1.   After a review of the preservation alternatives, the commission
approves or denies the proposed project.
      2.   If the proposed project is approved, the commission issues a
certificate of appropriateness.
      3.   If the commission denies the proposed project, it must state its
reasons and transmit to the applicant a written record of its denial. The
commission may propose appropriate revisions of the applicant's proposal that,
if adopted by the applicant, may cause the commission to reconsider its denial.
The applicant may modify the proposed project and resubmit a modified proposal
at any time.
   J.   If the commission denies such proposed project after a review of
preservation alternatives, it may, upon application or on its own motion, issue
a certificate of economic nonviability.
      1.   Certificate Of Economic Nonviability: Upon application or motion for
a certificate of economic nonviability, the commission will schedule a public
meeting on that application or motion.
      2.   Data To Be Provided By Applicant: Before rendering its decision, the
commission may solicit expert opinion or require that the applicant for a
certificate of economic nonviability submit the following information,
including, but not limited to: (Ord. 27-14, 3-17-2014; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-
2015)
         a.   Estimate of the cost of the proposed work or activity and an
estimate of any additional cost that would be incurred to comply with the
recommendations of the historic preservation commission for changes necessary
for the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness.
         b.   A report from a licensed engineer or architect with experience in
rehabilitation as to the structural soundness of any structures and their
suitability for rehabilitation. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-
2015)
         c.   Estimated market value of the property in its current condition;
after completion of the proposed construction or alteration; and after any
changes recommended by the commission.
         d.   The amount paid for the property, the date of purchase and the
person from whom purchased, including a description of the relationship, if
any, between the owner of record or the applicant and the person from whom the
property was purchased, and any terms of financing between the seller and
buyer.
         e.   If the property is income producing, the annual gross income from
the property for the previous two (2) years.
         f.   Itemized operating and maintenance expenses for the previous two
(2) years; and depreciation deduction and annual cash flow before and after
debt service, if any, during the same period.
         g.   The remaining balance on any mortgage or other financing secured
by the property and annual debt service, if any, for the previous two (2)
years.
         h.   All appraisals obtained within the previous two (2) years by the
owner or applicant in connection with the purchase, financing or ownership of
the property.
         i.   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous two (2) years.
         j.   The assessed value of the property according to the two (2) most
recent assessments.
         k.   The amount of real estate taxes for the previous two (2) years
and whether or not they have been paid.
         l.   The form of ownership or operation of the property, whether sole
proprietorship, for profit or not for profit corporation, limited partnership,
joint venture or other.
         m.   Any other information considered necessary by the commission to
make a determination as to whether the property yields or may yield any
reasonable economic return to the property owner(s), including, but not limited
to, the income tax bracket of the owner(s) or applicant(s) or of the principal
investor(s) in the property.
         n.   Proof of the applicant's efforts to obtain financing, tax
incentives, preservation grants and other incentives sufficient to allow the
applicant to earn a reasonable and an economic return from the property.
         o.   A showing of the applicant's efforts in ongoing maintenance and
repair.
      3.   Issuance Or Postponement Of Certificate: If the commission, after
review of the evidence submitted, finds that denial of the proposed work would
prevent the property owner from earning any reasonable economic return from the
property, the commission will:
         a.   Immediately issue a certificate of economic nonviability; or
         b.   At its discretion, postpone, for a period not to exceed one
hundred eighty (180) days, the issuance of a certificate of economic
nonviability. During this time, the commission will investigate strategies for
the property owner to earn a reasonable economic return from the property. No
regulated permit will be issued during this time unless a certificate of
appropriateness has been secured. If, at the end of the one hundred eighty
(180) day period, the commission, after a public meeting, finds that the
property owner still cannot earn any reasonable economic return from the
property, it will issue a certificate of economic nonviability.
      4.   Denial Of Certificate: If the commission finds, after initial review
or after the one hundred eighty (180) day period of postponement, that the
property owner has earned or is able to earn a reasonable economic return from
the property, then the commission will deny the application for a certificate
of economic nonviability.
   K.   The failure of the commission to approve or deny an application for a
certificate of appropriateness within sixty (60) days from the date of the
filing of the application for a certificate of appropriateness, unless an
extension is agreed upon mutually by the applicant and the commission,
constitutes approval, unless within such sixty (60) days the commission has
made a determination of economic nonviability and has suspended its decision
regarding a certificate of economic nonviability pursuant to subsection J3b of
this section.
   L.   The certificate of appropriateness expires and becomes null and void
unless the regulated permits are secured within sixty (60) days from the date
of its issuance.
   M.   All required permits must be secured and work must commence within
sixty (60) days from the date of the issuance of the certificate of
appropriateness and be completed within such time as the building official
determines is reasonable under the circumstances, but not longer than two (2)
years after its issuance. The building official may grant, in writing, one or
more extensions of time, for periods not to exceed one hundred eighty (180)
days each. The extensions must be requested in writing and justifiable cause
for the extension must be demonstrated. (Ord. 27-14, 3-17-2014; amd. Ord. 40-
15, 6-1-2015)
   N.   The transfer of a determination of no material effect, a certificate of
appropriateness or a certificate of economic nonviability from one structure,
improvement or site to another structure, improvement or site or from one
person to another is prohibited. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-
2015)
   O.   Each determination of no material effect, certificate of
appropriateness or certificate of economic nonviability issued under the
provisions of this chapter expires and becomes null and void if the work or
activity for which the determination of no material effect, certificate of
appropriateness or certificate of economic nonviability was issued is not
commenced within one year of its issuance. (Ord. 27-14, 3-17-2014; amd. Ord.
40-15, 6-1-2015)
16-10-7: STANDARDS FOR DESIGN REVIEW:
   A.   The commission considers each design review on the merits of the
individual case, with due deliberation given to each proposed change(s) and its
sympathetic relationship to the specific historic setting, architectural or
historic significance, extent of previous alteration, use of original materials
and quality of design of the existing structure or site. Commission approval of
a particular type of alteration or activity does not establish a binding
precedent for future commission action, but may constitute an additional factor
to be considered in subsequent design reviews involving the same type of
alteration or activity.
   B.   The "secretary of interior's standards and guidelines for archaeology
and historic preservation", the "secretary of interior's standards and
guidelines for the treatment of historic properties", codified as 36 CFR 68, as
amended, and the "secretary of the interior's standards for rehabilitation and
guidelines for rehabilitating historic buildings", provide the guidelines by
which the commission reviews an application for a certificate of
appropriateness or certificate of economic nonviability, and any subsequent
revisions of these standards and guidelines by the secretary of the interior
will be adopted by the commission.
   C.   The commission shall also be guided by the architectural guidelines and
any design standards specified in the ordinance or amendment designating the
landmark, landmark site or historic district.
   D.   The commission considers the factors of architectural style, scale,
mass, arrangement, texture, materials, and any other pertinent factors. The
proposed work must be appropriate for and must restore, preserve, or enhance
features of buildings or structures. The proposed work shall not adversely
affect the exterior architectural features of the building or structure, nor
shall the proposed work adversely affect the character or special historical,
architectural or aesthetic value of the property and its setting. The proposed
work also must conform to such further standards as may be embodied in the
ordinance. (Ord. 44-16, 9-19-2016)
16-10-8: CONSERVATION DISTRICTS:
   A.   Application Of Section: The provisions of this section apply to all
buildings located in whole or in part within the following described
conservation districts: (Ord. 29-14, 3-17-2014; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
      1.   4th Street Neighborhood Conservation District: Beginning at the
intersection of 7th and Bluff Streets, thence southerly along Bluff Street to
its intersection with West 5th Street; thence westerly along West 5th Street to
its intersection with the northerly extension of Raymond Street; thence
southerly along Raymond Street and its northerly and southerly extensions to
its intersection with West 3rd Street; thence easterly along West 3rd Street to
its intersection with St. Mary's Street; thence southerly along St. Mary's
Street to its intersection with Emmett Street; thence easterly along Emmett
Street to its intersection with Bluff Street; thence southerly along Bluff
Street to its intersection with 1st Street; thence easterly along 1st Street to
its intersection with the alley between Bluff and Locust Streets; thence
northerly along the alley between Bluff and Locust Streets to its intersection
with West 5th Street; thence easterly along West 5th Street to its intersection
with Locust Street; thence northerly along Locust Street to its intersection
with 7th Street; thence westerly along 7th Street to its intersection with
Bluff Street which is the point of beginning.
      2.   Fenelon Place Neighborhood Conservation District: Beginning at the
intersection of West 5th and Burch Streets, thence southerly along Burch Street
to its intersection with West 3rd Street; thence easterly along West 3rd Street
to its intersection with the southerly extension of Raymond Street; thence
northerly along Raymond Street and its southerly and northerly extensions to
its intersection with West 5th Street; thence westerly along West 5th Street to
its intersection with Burch Street which is the point of beginning.
      3.   3rd Street Neighborhood Conservation District: Beginning at the
intersection of West 3rd and Hill Streets thence southwesterly along Hill
Street to its intersection with Langworthy Street; thence northwesterly along
Langworthy Street to its intersection with Alpine Street; thence northeasterly
along Alpine Street to its intersection with West 3rd Street; thence
northwesterly along West 3rd Street to its intersection with Nevada Street;
thence northeasterly along Nevada Street to its intersection with West 5th
Street; thence southeasterly along West 5th Street to its intersection with
Alpine Street; thence southerly along Alpine Street to its intersection with
Melrose Terrace; thence southeasterly along Melrose Terrace and its
southeasterly extension to its intersection with Winona Street; thence
southwesterly along Winona Street to its intersection with West 3rd Street;
thence southeasterly along West 3rd Street to its intersection with Hill Street
which is the point of beginning.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
      4.   Washington Street Neighborhood Conservation District: Beginning at
the intersection of E. 22nd Street and Kniest Street, thence southeasterly
along Kniest Street to its intersection with Garfield Avenue, thence
southwesterly along Garfield Avenue to its intersection with the City alley
located between Elm Street and Kniest Street, thence southeasterly along the
City alley to its intersection with E. 18th Street, thence southwesterly along
E. 18th Street to its intersection with the City alley located between the Iowa
Chicago and Eastern Railroad right-of-way and Elm Street, thence southeasterly
along the City alley to its intersection with E. 17th Street, thence
northeasterly along E. 17th Street to its intersection with the Iowa Chicago
and Eastern Railroad right-of-way, thence southeasterly along the Iowa Chicago
and Eastern Railroad right-of-way to its intersection with E. 16th Street,
thence southwesterly along E. 16th Street to its intersection with Elm Street,
thence southeasterly along Elm Street to its intersection with E. 15th Street,
thence northeasterly along E. 15th Street to its intersection with the City
alley located between Elm Street and Pine Street, thence southeasterly along
the City alley located between Elm Street and Pine Street to its intersection
with E. 14th Street, thence southwesterly along E. 14th Street to its
intersection with the City alley located between Elm Street and Pine Street,
thence southeasterly along the City alley located between Elm Street and Pine
Street to its intersection with E. 12th Street, thence southwesterly along E.
12 Street to its intersection with Elm Street, thence southeasterly along Elm
Street to its intersection with E. 11th Street, thence southwesterly along E.
11th Street to its intersection with W. 11th Street, thence southwesterly along
W. 11th Street to its intersection with the City alley located between Central
Avenue and Iowa Street; thence northwesterly along the City alley to its
intersection with the City Hall access driveway, thence southwesterly along the
City Hall access driveway to its intersection with Iowa Street, thence
northwesterly along Iowa Street to its intersection with Loras Boulevard;
thence northeasterly along Loras Boulevard to its intersection with the City
alley located between Iowa Street and Central Avenue, thence northwesterly
along the City alley to its intersection with W. 17th Street, thence
northeasterly along W. 17th Street to its intersection with Heeb Street; thence
northwesterly along Heeb Street to its intersection with the northern boundary
of Parcel #10-24-252-018; thence northeasterly along the northern boundary of
Parcel #10-24-252-018 to its intersection with the west boundary of Parcel #10-
24-252-017; thence northwesterly along the west boundary of Parcel #10-24-252-
017 to its intersection with the south boundary of Parcel #10-24-252-015,
thence northeasterly along the south boundary of Parcel #10-24-252-015 to its
intersection with the west boundary of Parcel #10-24-252-013, thence
northwesterly along the west boundary of Parcel #10-24-252-013 to its
intersection with Heeb Street, thence northwesterly along Heeb Street to its
intersection with Kaufmann Avenue, thence northeasterly along Kaufmann Avenue
to its intersection with 22nd Street thence northeasterly along 22nd Street to
its point of origin at the intersection of E. 22nd Street and Kniest Street
excluding the area beginning at the intersection of E. 14th Street and Jackson
Street, thence southeasterly along Jackson Street to its intersection with E.
13th Street, thence southwesterly along E. 13th Street to its intersection with
White Street, thence northwesterly along White Street to its intersection with
E. 14th Street, thence northeasterly along E. 14th Street to its point of
origin at the intersection of E. 14th Street and Jackson Street.
This subsection shall not apply to an application for a demolition permit for
properties being acquired and demolished for the Bee Branch Creek restoration
project. (Ord. 15-11, 2-22-2011; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
      5.   Jackson Park Neighborhood Conservation District: Beginning at the
intersection of 14th Street and Central Avenue thence westerly along 14th
Street to its intersection with Iowa Street; thence southerly along Iowa Street
to its intersection with 10th Street; thence westerly along 10th Street to its
intersection with Bluff Street; thence northerly along Bluff Street to its
intersection with Locust Street; thence northwesterly along Locust Street to
its intersection with Ellis Street; thence northerly along Ellis Street and its
northerly extension to its intersection with Clarke Drive; thence northwesterly
along Clarke Drive to its intersection with Paul Street; thence northeasterly
along Paul Street to its intersection with Lowell Street; thence southeasterly
along Lowell Street to its intersection with North Main Street; thence
southerly along North Main Street to its intersection with Clarke Drive; thence
southeasterly along Clarke Drive and its southeasterly extension to its
intersection with Central Avenue; thence southerly along Central Avenue to its
intersection with 14th Street which is the point of beginning.
      6.   West 11th Street Neighborhood Conservation District: Beginning at
the intersection of 9th and Bluff Streets thence westerly along 9th Street to
its intersection with University Avenue; thence westerly along University
Avenue to its intersection with Spruce Street; thence northerly along Spruce
Street to its intersection with West 11th Street; thence westerly along West
11th Street to its intersection with Walnut Street; thence northerly along
Walnut Street to its intersection with Loras Boulevard; thence westerly along
Loras Boulevard to its intersection with Cox Street; thence northerly along Cox
Street to its intersection with the westerly extension of West 16th Street;
thence easterly along West 16th Street and its westerly extension to its
intersection with Montrose Terrace; thence northerly along the northeasterly
extension of Montrose Terrace to its intersection with West Locust Street;
thence southeasterly along West Locust Street to its intersection with Bluff
Street; thence southerly along Bluff Street to its intersection with 9th Street
which is the point of beginning.
      7.   Broadway Street Neighborhood Conservation District: Beginning at the
intersection of West 23rd Street and Central Avenue thence westerly along West
23rd Street to its intersection with Lewis Street; thence northwesterly along
Lewis Street to its intersection with Fulton Street; thence northerly along
Fulton Street to its intersection with King Street; thence easterly along King
Street and its easterly extension to its intersection with Central Avenue;
thence southerly along Central Avenue to its intersection with West 23rd Street
which is the point of beginning.
      8.   Downtown Neighborhood Conservation District: Beginning at the
intersection of White Street and 11th Street, thence southerly along White
Street to its intersection with 5th Street; thence easterly along 5th Street to
its intersection with the railroad tracks; thence easterly along the railroad
tracks to their intersection with the Mississippi River; thence southerly along
the riverfront across the Ice Harbor to the eastern terminus of 1st Street;
thence westerly along 1st Street to its intersection with U.S. Highway 61/151;
thence southerly along U.S. Highway 61/151 to its intersection with the Locust
Street Connector; thence westerly along the Locust Street Connector and across
Locust Street to Jones Street; thence westerly along Jones Street to its
intersection with Bissell Lane; thence northerly along Bissell Lane extended to
1st Street; thence westerly along 1st Street to its intersection with Bluff
Street; thence northerly along Bluff Street to its intersection with 5th
Street; thence easterly on 5th Street to its intersection with Locust Street;
thence northerly on Locust Street to its intersection with 8th Street; thence
westerly on 8th Street to its intersection with Bluff Street; thence southerly
on Bluff Street to its intersection with 5th Street; thence westerly along 5th
Street to the bluff line; thence northerly along the bluff line to 9th Street;
thence easterly along 9th Street to its intersection with Bluff Street; thence
northerly along Bluff Street to its intersection with 10th Street; thence
easterly along 10th Street to its intersection with Iowa Street; thence
northerly along Iowa Street to its intersection with 14th Street; thence
easterly along 14th Street to its intersection with White Street, thence
southerly along White Street to its intersection with 13th Street, thence
westerly along 13th Street to its intersection with Central Avenue, thence
southerly along Central Avenue to its intersection with 11th Street, thence
easterly along 11th Street to its intersection with White Street, which is the
point of beginning.
      9.   Brewery Conservation District: Lot 2-7 of Mineral Lot 322, Lot 1-1-
3-8 of Mineral Lot 322, and Lot 2-1 of Liebe's Subdivision No. 3 in the City of
Dubuque, Iowa.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
   B.   Process For Establishment, Expansion Or Alteration Of Conservation
District: Any person may request that the city council establish, expand or
alter a conservation district. The process for establishment, expansion or
alteration of a conservation district is as follows:
      1.   A written request for the establishment, expansion or alteration of
a conservation district must be submitted to the city clerk. At its next
regular meeting following receipt of the request by the city clerk, the city
council may approve or deny the request, set the request for consideration at a
subsequent meeting, set the request for a public hearing, or refer the request
to the commission for a recommendation before voting on the request.
      2.   At its next regular meeting, if a referral is made to it by the city
council, the commission will review the request, and make a recommendation to
the city council to approve or deny the request, or to table the request for
additional information for a specified period not to exceed sixty (60) days.
Failure of the commission to act on the request within the sixty (60) day
period, unless the applicant requests and the commission grants an extension of
such time, constitutes commission approval thereof. The recommendation of the
commission will be transmitted to the city clerk. The city clerk will promptly
transmit the recommendation and the application to the city council for its
consideration. In determining whether to recommend approval or denial of the
request, the commission will consider whether the proposed conservation
district, or the expansion or alteration of the district, has historic or
architectural significance to the community.
      3.   At its next regular meeting following receipt of the recommendation
of the commission by the city clerk, the city council will approve or deny the
request, or refer the nomination back to the commission for modification. (Ord.
29-14, 3-17-2014; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
   C.   Historic And Architectural Significance Guidelines And Review Criteria:
      1.   The report, "Heritage Of Dubuque", dated March 1974, and filed on
record on January 27, 1975, shall be considered as a comprehensive study for
the historical preservation of the city and as one of the guides to be
considered at such time as a demolition permit is applied for in a reference
conservation district. The city of Dubuque's historic property inventory and
any subsequent official architectural/historical surveys/evaluations and
nominations to the national register of historic places prepared for any
buildings located within the conservation districts described in subsection A
of this section also shall be considered as guidelines at such time.
      2.   In determining whether a building has historic or architectural
significance, the commission shall consider an application for a demolition
permit in accordance with the standards for review set forth in the secretary
of the interior's "standards for identification and evaluation", and any
subsequent revisions of these standards and guidelines by the secretary of the
interior. The commission shall also consider a determination from the state
historical preservation office as to the potential eligibility for listing of
the building proposed for demolition on the national register of historic
places.
   D.   Economic Guidelines And Review Criteria:
      1.   In determining whether to approve or deny the application, the
commission may consider the information set forth in this subsection. The
commission may also investigate strategies which would allow the property owner
to earn a reasonable economic return on the property, may solicit expert
testimony, and may require that the applicant make submissions concerning any
or all of the following information:
         a.   A bid from a qualified contractor showing the cost of the
proposed demolition.
         b.   A report from a licensed engineer, architect or contractor with
experience in rehabilitation as to the structural integrity of any structure
that the applicant proposes to demolish.
         c.   An opinion of the market value and the appraised value of the
property by a realtor or appraiser: 1) in its current condition; 2) after
completion of the proposed demolition; 3) after renovation of the existing
property for continued use; and 4) all appraisals obtained within the last five
(5) years for the property.
         d.   An estimate from an architect, developer, real estate consultant,
appraiser or other real estate professional experienced in rehabilitation of
the cost: 1) to perform the repairs identified by the building services
department and the housing and community development department if the
structure contains one or more dwelling units; and 2) to rehabilitate the
structure.
         e.   The amount paid for the property, the date of purchase and the
person from whom the property was purchased, a description of the relationship,
if any, between the owner of record, the applicant and the person from whom the
property was purchased, and the terms of the purchase or proposed purchase,
including financing.
         f.   If the property is income producing, form 1040 schedule E or
equivalent for the previous two (2) years.
         g.   Itemized operating and maintenance expenses for the previous two
(2) years, and the depreciation deduction and annual cash flow before and after
debt service, if any, during the same period.
         h.   The name of all mortgagees and the balance of all mortgages or
other financing secured by the property and annual debt service, if any, for
the previous two (2) years.
         i.   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, the price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous five (5) years.
         j.   The assessed value of the property for the previous two (2)
assessment years.
         k.   The amount of real estate taxes assessed for the previous two (2)
assessment years and whether or not they have been paid.
         l.   Any other information considered necessary by the city council to
make a determination as to whether the property does or may yield a reasonable
economic return to the property owner(s).
         m.   A statement of the applicant's efforts to obtain financing, tax
incentives, preservation grants and other incentives sufficient to allow the
applicant to earn a reasonable economic return from the property in its current
condition, and after renovation of the existing property for continued use.
         n.   A statement of the applicant's current maintenance and repair
activities.
      2.   If the application is for any building with one or more dwelling
units, the housing and community development department may also make
submissions concerning any or all of the above information, including
strategies which would allow the property owner to earn a reasonable economic
return on the property. The commission shall consider such information.
   E.   Guidelines And Review Criteria For Applications By State Or Political
Subdivision Of State:
      1.   In determining whether to approve or deny the application, the
commission may consider the information set forth in this subsection and any
other information the commission considers relevant to balancing any
conflicting governmental interests.
      2.   The commission may require that the applicant make submissions
concerning any or all of the following information for the proposed site and
suitable alternative location(s):
         a.   Fair market value of property.
         b.   Estimate of the cost of the proposed demolition, including
hazardous material removal and remediation.
         c.   Fair market value of any property owned by the governmental body
that could be sold if that site is not chosen for the project.
         d.   Property tax impact of removing private property from the tax
rolls at the proposed location and all alternative locations.
         e.   Any other factors that contribute to making one location more
suitable than others for the proposed use.
         f.   Any other information appropriate to evaluating how all
conflicting governmental interests may be accommodated.
         g.   The need for the use in question, the effect on neighboring
property, and the environmental impact of the proposed use.
   F.   Action: If the commission fails to take action to approve, deny or
withhold action on the application within the ninety (90) day period, or such
extension as requested by the applicant, the building official shall issue the
permit forthwith.
   G.   Process For Establishment, Expansion Or Alteration Of Conservation
District: Any person may make a request to the city council for establishment,
expansion or alteration of a conservation district. The process for
establishment, expansion or alteration of a conservation district shall be as
follows:
      1.   A written request for the establishment, expansion or alteration of
a conservation district shall be submitted to the city clerk. At its next
regular meeting following receipt of the request by the city clerk, the city
council may approve or deny the request, set the request for consideration at a
subsequent meeting, set the request for a public hearing, or refer the request
to the commission for a recommendation before voting on the request.
         a.   If the city council considers the request at a public hearing, a
notice of the date, time and location of the hearing shall be published in
accordance with Iowa Code section 362.3.
         b.   The city council may also direct the city clerk to mail a notice
of the date, time and location of the meeting at which the city council will
consider the request to the property owners of record in the district.
         c.   If the city council refers the request to the commission, the
city council may also direct the secretary of the commission to mail a notice
of the date, time and location of the meeting at which the commission will
consider the request to the property owners of record in the district.
      2.   At its next regular meeting, if a referral is made to it by the city
council, the commission shall review the request, and make a recommendation to
the city council to approve or deny the request, or to table the request for
additional information for a specified period not to exceed sixty (60) days. A
failure of the commission to take action on the request within the sixty (60)
day period, unless the applicant requests and the commission grants an
extension of such time, shall constitute commission approval thereof. The
recommendation of the commission shall be transmitted to the city clerk. The
city clerk shall promptly transmit the recommendation and the application to
the city council for its consideration. In determining whether to recommend
approval or denial of the request, the commission shall consider whether the
proposed conservation district, or the expansion or alteration of the district,
has historic or architectural significance to the community.
      3.   At its next regular meeting following receipt of the recommendation
of the commission by the city clerk, the city council shall approve or deny the
request.
   H.   Demolition By Neglect Prohibited: The owner of a building or structure
in any conservation district shall preserve and keep in good repair all of the
exterior portions of such buildings and structures and all interior portions
thereof whose maintenance is necessary to prevent deterioration and decay of
any exterior portion. This shall be in addition to all other provisions of law
requiring property and improvements to be kept in good repair. The owner shall
repair the building or structure to correct any of the following defects as
determined by the building official:
      1.   Parts which are improperly or inadequately attached so that they may
fall and injure persons or property;
      2.   A deteriorated or inadequate foundation;
      3.   Defective or deteriorated floor supports or floor supports that are
insufficient to carry the loads imposed;
      4.   Walls, partitions, or other vertical supports that split, lean,
list, or buckle due to defect or deterioration or are insufficient to carry the
load imposed;
      5.   Ceilings, roofs, ceiling or roof supports, or other horizontal
members which sag, split, or buckle, due to defect or deterioration or are
insufficient to support the load imposed;
      6.   Fireplaces and chimneys which list, bulge, or settle due to defect
or deterioration or are of insufficient size or strength to carry the loads
imposed;
      7.   Deteriorated, crumbling, or loose exterior stucco or mortar;
      8.   Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs,
foundations, or floors, including broken windows and doors;
      9.   Defective or lack of weather protection for exterior wall coverings,
foundations, or floors, including broken windows and doors;
      10.   Any default, defect, or condition in the structure which renders it
structurally unsafe or not properly watertight;
      11.   Deterioration of any exterior feature so as to create a hazardous
condition which could make demolition necessary for the public safety;
      12.   Deterioration or removal after the effective date hereof of any
unique architectural feature which would detract from the original
architectural style;
      13.   Deterioration of exterior stairs, porches, handrails, window and
door frames, cornices, wall facings, and architectural details that cause
instability, loss of shape and form, or crumbling;
      14.   Rotting, holes, and other forms of decay; or
      15.   Leaving a building or structure open or vulnerable to vandalism,
decay by the elements, or animal and/or insect infestation. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015; Ord. 40-22, 11-21-2022)
16-10-9: CONSERVATION PLANNING AREAS:
At the request of the city council, the commission shall conduct studies and
encourage special attention to the public planning, design, construction, and
maintenance needs with respect to land use, transportation, public utilities,
public facilities, housing, open space, historic preservation, urban design,
and other elements of the comprehensive plan in the following conservation
planning areas:
   A.   Phase I Historic And Architectural Survey Area: An area located in the
Washington/Jackson/Elm Street area north of the central business district in
the Couler Valley, which consists primarily of the Central Avenue, White
Street, Jackson Street, Washington Street, Elm Street, Pinard Street, and
Kniest Street corridors between 8th and 26th Streets.
   B.   Phase II Historic And Architectural Survey Area: An area northeast of
the original plat of the city of Dubuque with two (2) distinct subareas: the
Rhomberg/Eagle Point neighborhood which consists primarily of three (3) streets
(Garfield, Rhomberg and Lincoln) running northeast and southwest from Kniest
Street to Eagle Point area; and, the Linwood district, which consists of
streets located on the hillside between 22nd Street and Linwood Cemetery, from
Queen Street to Jefferson Middle School.
   C.   Warehouse District: The area encompassed by 12th Street on the north,
White Street on the west, and U.S. 61/151 on the east. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009;
amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
16-10-10: APPEALS FROM COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   An aggrieved party may appeal the commission's action to the city
council by filing a notice of appeal with the planning services department
within thirty (30) days from the date of notice of the commission's action.
   B.   Upon filing of a notice of appeal, the planning services department
shall immediately transmit such notice and the record of the action before the
commission to the city clerk.
   C.   On appeal, the city council shall consider only the record of the
action before the commission. No new matter may be considered.
   D.   The city council shall consider whether the commission has exercised
its powers and followed the guidelines established by law and this chapter, and
whether the commission's action was patently arbitrary or capricious.
   E.   The city council may affirm or reverse the commission's action, or may
refer the matter back to the commission for such further action as may be
appropriate. The city clerk shall give written notice of the city council's
decision on appeal within seven (7) days of the city council's decision to the
appellant and the historic preservation commission.
   F.   An appellant who is not satisfied by the decision of the city council
may appeal within sixty (60) days of the city council's decision to the
district court for Dubuque County, pursuant to Iowa Code section 303.34. (Ord.
52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
16-10-11: INSPECTION:
   A.   After a certificate of appropriateness or certificate of economic
nonviability has been issued and a regulated permit granted to the applicant,
the building official, city engineer or other local authority may from time to
time inspect the work authorized and shall take such action as is necessary to
enforce compliance with the approved plans.
   B.   Historic preservation commissioners may from time to time inspect, from
the public way, the work authorized and shall advise the building official or
other enforcement authority as necessary to enforce compliance with the
approved plans. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-2015)
16-10-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to disobey, omit, neglect or refuse to
comply with any provision of this chapter, and such person shall be subject to
the provisions of sections
1-4-1 and subsections
1-4-2A through C of this code. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 40-15, 6-1-
2015)
CHAPTER 11
LAND SUBDIVISION
SECTION:
16-11-1: Purpose And Intent
16-11-2: Applicability
16-11-3: Recording Of Subdivision Plats
16-11-4: Exception Of Specific Subdivision Requirements
16-11-5: Application Fee For Subdivision Plat Review Required
16-11-6: Subdivisions Classified
16-11-7: Application Requirements And Review Process
16-11-8: Subdivision Design Standards
16-11-9: Recreational Open Space
16-11-9-1: Computation Of Recreational Open Space Required
16-11-9-2: Responsibility For Site Preparation
16-11-9-3: Ownership And Management
16-11-10: Sustainable Subdivision Development Tools
16-11-11: Conservation Subdivision
16-11-11-1: Conservation Subdivision Design Criteria
16-11-11-2: Conservation Subdivision Development Bonus
16-11-12: Solar Subdivision
16-11-13: Cottage Design Subdivision
16-11-14: Blocks And Lots
16-11-15: Streets
16-11-16: Sidewalks
16-11-17: Bikeways
16-11-18: Utility Location
16-11-19: Street Trees
16-11-20: Water Supply
16-11-21: Sanitary Sewer
16-11-22: Stormwater, Grading And Erosion Control
16-11-23: Obligation To Install Improvements
16-11-24: Improvement Guarantees
16-11-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of these regulations is to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare. These regulations are intended to facilitate and to
coordinate the subdivision of land within the city; to establish a consistent
policy for plats submitted to the zoning advisory commission and the city
council; and to enable the commission and city council to ascertain whether
such plats conform to the applicable statutes and ordinances.
   B.   The intent of these regulations is as follows:
      1.   To guide the future growth and development of the community
consistent with the city of Dubuque's adopted comprehensive plan.
      2.   To help identify those areas appropriate for development and those
areas appropriate for conservation.
      3.   To preserve open space and environmentally sensitive areas such as
wildlife habitat, riparian/wetland areas, by concentrating development, where
feasible.
      4.   To provide open space areas for passive and/or active recreational
use.
      5.   To provide for a diversity of lot sizes, housing choices and
building densities.
      6.   To provide buffering between residential development and
nonresidential uses.
      7.   To protect environmentally sensitive areas and biological diversity,
preserve existing trees, and maintain environmental corridors.
      8.   To preserve significant archaeological sites, historic buildings and
their settings. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Land Divided Within City Limits Or Within Two Miles Of The City Limits:
These regulations shall apply to all land to be divided which is within the
limits of the city or within two (2) miles of the limits of the city as
provided in Iowa Code section 354.9.
   B.   Plats Vacating Public Right Of Way: These regulations shall not apply
to plats vacating public right of way or disposal of excess right of way per
Iowa Code section 306.23. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 7-11, 1-18-2011;
Ord. 32-14, 4-21-2014; Ord. 11-21, 4-19-2021)
16-11-3: RECORDING OF SUBDIVISION PLATS:
No person shall subdivide any tract of land to which this chapter applies
without recording a plat thereof in the office of the county recorder, which
plat shall first have been prepared and approved in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter and of state law. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-4: EXCEPTION OF SPECIFIC SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The zoning advisory commission and city council, when acting upon an
application for preliminary or final subdivision approval, shall have the power
to grant such exceptions from the requirements of this chapter for subdivision
approval as may be reasonable and within the general purpose and intent of the
provisions for subdivision review and approval of this chapter if the literal
enforcement of one or more provisions of this chapter is impracticable or will
exact an undue hardship because of peculiar conditions pertaining to the land
in question. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-5: APPLICATION FEE FOR SUBDIVISION PLAT REVIEW REQUIRED:
No plat shall be considered filed for review, unless and until said plat is
accompanied by a fee in the amount as established by resolution of the city
council in an official schedule of planning and zoning fees. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009)
16-11-6: SUBDIVISIONS CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Plats: Plats vacating public right of way.
   B.   Simple Division: Any subdivision or consolidation of property in which
no new streets, public or private, are proposed, which does not require the
construction of any public improvements, and which creates fewer than three (3)
lots.
   C.   Minor Subdivision: Any subdivision or consolidation of property in
which no new streets, public or private, are proposed and which does not
require the construction of any public improvements and which creates three (3)
or more lots.
   D.   Major Subdivision: Any subdivision or consolidation of property which
is not a simple subdivision or a minor subdivision and requires the
construction of any public improvements. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-7: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   General Information:
      1.   All applications for land subdivision approval shall be prepared to
show all information currently required by the city, a list of which shall be
available from the planning services department.
      2.   Preliminary grading, not to include the removal of excavated
material from the site, may be permitted only after a grading and erosion
control plan has been submitted, reviewed and approved by the city engineer and
the city planner.
      3.   Final grading and utility construction in accordance with the city
standards and this title, and/or the removal of excavated material from the
site, may be permitted with the written approval of the city manager, provided
that the owner first waives, in writing, any claims against the city which may
result from the denial of or changes required for approval of the final plat
and/or improvement plans.
      4.   Prior to commencing any grading or construction of improvements, the
owner shall also obtain any state or federal permits which may be required.
   B.   Simple Divisions And Plats Vacating Public Right Of Way:
      1.   Simple divisions that are determined to be in compliance with this
title and plats vacating public right of way shall be reviewed and approved by
the city planner.
      2.   The city planner may set conditions to ensure that the simple
division meets the requirements of all applicable city codes.
      3.   Simple divisions that require a waiver of bulk regulations shall be
submitted to the zoning advisory commission and city council for approval.
      4.   No plats for simple divisions shall be recorded unless the city has
approved the plat.
   C.   Minor Subdivisions:
      1.   A preapplication conference shall be encouraged, but not required
for a minor subdivision.
      2.   A preliminary plat is not required for a minor subdivision. The
zoning advisory commission may require any additional information necessary to
adequately review the plat.
      3.   The owner shall submit six (6) copies of the final plat to the
planning services department. The final plat must show all information required
by the city.
      4.   The zoning advisory commission shall review final plats to determine
whether said plat is in substantial conformance with this title and the
comprehensive plan. If the commission finds that the plat conforms to all
applicable city and state codes, and the comprehensive plan, the commission
shall approve the plat. The commission shall submit its findings regarding the
final plats to the city council, who must act within sixty (60) days of the
filing of the final plat with the planning services department.
      5.   If the zoning advisory commission fails to recommend approval of the
final plat, or approves it with conditions, the commission shall transmit its
findings, required conditions and/or reasons for its denial to the owner and
city council.
      6.   The city council shall review final plats to determine conformance
to this title, state law, and the comprehensive plan. If the plat conforms, the
city council shall approve the plat and shall cause its approval to be entered
on the plat. The city council may require as a condition of approval of the
plat that the owner comply with such other reasonable requirements as the city
council may deem necessary for the protection of the public interest.
   D.   Major Subdivisions:
      1.   A preapplication conference shall be required for all major
subdivisions.
      2.   An approved preliminary plat shall be required for a major
subdivision. After the preapplication conference, the owner shall submit six
(6) copies of the preliminary plat as required by the city planner. The
preliminary plat must show all information required by the city. The
preliminary plat shall be reviewed by the zoning advisory commission only
except when a preliminary plat is submitted that includes a private street, in
which case both the zoning advisory commission and the city council shall
review and approve the submitted preliminary plat. In a case where the zoning
advisory commission votes to deny a preliminary plat, the city council shall
have the discretion to review the preliminary plat and override the
commission's denial. The review shall be to determine compliance with all
relevant sections of this title and the comprehensive plan. Approval granted by
the commission shall remain in effect for a period of two (2) years. Within
this two (2) year time frame, a final plat must be filed with the planning
services department. The zoning advisory commission shall have the authority to
grant a maximum of one 2-year extension, provided the preliminary plat is still
in compliance with all current city codes and ordinances.
      3.   The owner shall submit six (6) copies of the improvement plans to
the planning services department. The improvement plans shall include all
information required by the city. Any application for approval of improvement
plans that does not contain all required information, including a draft copy of
the final plat, shall not be accepted by the city planner. The city engineer
shall review all improvement plans to determine whether the plans are in
substantial conformance to all applicable city standards.
      4.   The owner shall submit six (6) copies of the final plat to the city
planner. The final plat must show all information required by the city. Any
application for final plat approval that does not contain all required
information, including improvement plans approved by the city engineer, shall
not be accepted by the city planner. The city planner shall review final plats
to determine whether or not said plat is in material conformance to the
preliminary plat for the property, this title and the comprehensive plan. The
city planner shall submit findings and recommendations on the final plat to the
city council. The city council shall act within sixty (60) days of the
acceptance of a complete final plat application by the city planner.
      5.   Preliminary plats shall include the entire proposed subdivision when
fully built, and shall also indicate the presence of all contiguous property
under common ownership, in order to allow the city to plan for the future
extension of streets and utilities. Proposed street names for public or private
streets shall be labeled on the submitted preliminary plat.
      6.   The city council shall review final plats to determine conformance
to this title, state law, and the comprehensive plan. If the plat conforms, the
city council shall approve the plat and shall cause its approval to be entered
on the plat. The city council may require as a condition of approval of the
plat that the owner of the land bring all streets to a grade acceptable to the
city council, and comply with such other reasonable requirements in regard to
installation of public utilities or other improvements as the city council may
deem requisite for the protection of the public interest.
      7.   Preliminary and final plats shall not be concurrently reviewed or
considered for approval.
   E.   Fringe Area Development Standards:
      1.   Fringe Area Subdivision Requirements:
         a.   All subdivisions must comply with this Chapter.
         b.   Each subdivision will be required to provide sufficient easements
for the extension of city water and sanitary sewer utility systems to serve
each individual lot within the subdivision.
         c.   Each major subdivision shall comply with the city of Dubuque
sustainability requirements for new subdivisions, including obtaining score of
forty (40) points as established in this chapter.
         d.   New streets that access city or county roadways must comply with
SUDAS for sight visibility as determined by the city engineer.
         e.   To facilitate planned and orderly growth, developers of major
subdivisions must provide a preliminary plat for the entire area anticipated to
be developed as part of the subdivision.
         f.   Subdivisions and developments which are approved prior to
annexation shall provide a mechanism for transfer of public right of way (ROW)
ownership for county roads to the city upon annexation.
         g.   Private roads and streets in subdivisions and developments that
are not under the county's ownership prior to annexation shall remain as
private roads and streets upon annexation to the city, unless and until such
time as they are brought into compliance with city standards and accepted by
the city as public streets.
         h.   Developers shall be required to utilize stormwater management and
erosion control measures, and stormwater retention/detention facilities where
appropriate in accordance with applicable federal, state, county, and city
laws, regulations and policies.
      2.   Exception Of Specific Subdivision Requirements: The zoning advisory
commission and city council, when acting upon an application for preliminary or
final subdivision approval, has the power to grant such exceptions from the
requirements of this chapter for subdivision approval as may be reasonable and
within the general purpose and intent of the provision for subdivision review
and approval of this chapter, if enforcement of one or more provisions of this
chapter are impracticable or will exact an undue hardship because of unique
conditions pertaining to the land in question. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd.
Ord. 26-13, 5-20-2013; Ord. 31-14, 4-21-2014; Ord. 32-22, 9-19-2022)
16-11-8: SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Subdivision Design:
      1.   Design of the subdivision shall be in conformance with this title,
the comprehensive plan, and all applicable city standards.
      2.   To the maximum extent practicable, the subdivision shall be designed
to preserve the natural features of the site, to avoid areas of environmental
sensitivity, and to minimize negative impacts and alteration of the natural
features.
      3.   The subdivision shall be laid out to avoid adversely affecting
groundwater and aquifer recharge; to reduce cut and fill; to avoid unnecessary
impermeable cover; to prevent flooding; to provide adequate access to lots and
sites; and to mitigate adverse effects of shadow, noise, odor, traffic,
drainage, and utilities on neighboring properties.
      4.   The subdivision shall be laid out to create lots which provide
sufficient area for development outside utility easements. No buildings, fill,
or grading shall occur within the utility easements without approval of the
city engineer.
      5.   No more than forty (40) platted lots shall be allowed in any phase,
combination of phases, or contiguous subdivisions having only one exit.
      6.   All streets, sidewalks, and bike/hike trails shall connect to other
streets, sidewalks and bike/hike trails within the subdivision, and to the
property lines, to provide for their extension to adjacent properties. Each
subdivision shall connect to the existing and planned street network of the
city to ensure connectivity between properties, distribution of traffic, and
access for public and emergency services.
   B.   Extension of Public Improvements:
      1.   Definitions: For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms have
the following meanings:
   Development: Any change to improved or unimproved real estate, including,
but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations for which necessary permits
may be required.
   Fiberoptic network conduit: A pipe, vault, or duct used to enclose
fiberoptic cable facilities buried alongside a roadway or surface mounted on a
bridge, overpass, or other facility where placement below ground is impossible
or impractical. "Fiberoptic network conduit" does not include electronics or
cable.
   Public Improvement: Streets, sanitary sewers, water mains, streetlights,
sidewalks, bike/hike trails, and fiberoptic network conduit.
      2.   Requirement of Developer: For all subdivision or site plan
developments, the developer shall extend all public improvements within and
through the subdivision or site development, and to the property lines, to
provide for their extension to adjacent properties.
   Public improvements shall be designed and installed in accordance with the
current city standards and specifications and within the time frame specified
in the resolution approving the final plat or improvement plan. The developer
shall pay the total cost of engineering and construction of extensions of such
public improvements.
   Plans for such extensions must be approved by the city engineer. The city
engineer may grant a waiver of the extension requirements on such terms and
conditions as the city engineer determines appropriate.
      3.   Water Mains:
         a.   Water mains must be sized to meet requirements for domestic plus
fire flow water demands and in accordance with city. The city may require the
design and construction of water mains with the ability to service lands other
than the immediately adjoining land and may require installation of water mains
sized larger than the minimum required to provide domestic and fire flow needs
for the development. In this circumstance, the city will consider reimbursing
the developer for the incremental difference in material cost above that of the
cost for water main materials needed to provide domestic and fire flow needs
subject to the availability of funds as determined by the city. The city will
not reimburse the developer for water mains above 8-inch if larger diameter
water main is needed to provide domestic plus fire flow water demands in the
development.
         b.   Only mains sized larger than an 8-inch main may be considered
eligible for reimbursement purposes. The reimbursement will be based on the
difference in pipe and fitting costs only, and no allowance will be made for
the difference in installation costs. The developer must provide the city
engineer with a current pipe supplier price list for the water main pipe and
appurtenances needed to serve the development and the price for the increased
pipe size and appurtenances. The city engineer will calculate the reimbursement
amount and will document the reimbursement amount in an agreement between the
city and the developer.
         c.   In areas where water main may be extended by a developer past
properties owned by others outside of the final plat so as to serve the area of
the final plat, such extension shall be at no expense to the city. The city
shall not be obligated to collect any portion of this cost for reimbursement to
the developer.
      4.   Sanitary Sewers:
         a.   All sanitary sewers mains must be a minimum of 8-inch diameter
pipe.
         b.   The sanitary sewer extension must be sized by the developer and
approved by the city engineer to serve the development and the development of
upstream sewershed property that may be served by the sewer extension.
         c.   When the upstream sewershed property would require the developer
to increase the pipe diameter, the city will consider reimbursing the developer
for the incremental cost difference in sanitary sewer pipe above the cost for
sanitary sewer pipe needed to provide service for the development, as
determined by the city engineer and subject to the availability of funds as
determined the city. The reimbursement will be based on the difference in
sanitary sewer pipe costs only and no allowance will be made for the difference
in installation costs.
         d.   The city will not reimburse developers for any increase in
sanitary sewer pipe diameter beyond 8-inch diameter if the increase in size is
a direct result of the development needs.
      5.   The developer must provide the city engineer with a current pipe
supplier price list for the sanitary sewer pipe needed to serve the development
and the price for the increased sanitary sewer pipe size. The city engineer
will calculate the reimbursement amount and will document the reimbursement
amount in an agreement between the city and the developer.
      6.   When a developer is installing a sanitary sewer lift station to
serve the development, the developer is responsible for proper capacity sizing
of the lift station and force main to serve the development to accept flow from
upstream sewershed properties.
      7.   When the upstream sewershed properties would require the developer
to increase the sanitary sewer lift station capacity, the city will consider
reimbursing the developer for the incremental cost difference in sanitary sewer
lift station capacity above the cost for the sanitary sewer lift station needed
to provide capacity for the development, as determined by the city engineer and
subject to the availability of funds as determined by the city. The
reimbursement will be based on the difference in sanitary sewer lift station
costs only and no allowance will be made for the difference in installation
costs.
      8.   The developer must provide the city engineer with a current supplier
price list for the sanitary sewer lift station and force main needed to serve
the development and a separate price list for the components needed for the
increased lift station capacity. The city engineer will calculate the
reimbursement amount and will document the reimbursement amount in an agreement
between the city and the developer.
   C.   Corners To Be Marked: Every corner of each lot shall be marked by a
land surveyor licensed in the state of Iowa.
   D.   Open Space: In subdividing property, consideration shall be given to
the dedication of suitable sites for parks, playgrounds, schools and other open
space areas, so as to conform, as nearly as possible, to the comprehensive plan
and the needs of the city and the adjacent area. Such provision may be
indicated on the preliminary and final plats for consideration by the
commission and city council when, whether, and in what manner such sites will
be dedicated to the public. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2-23, 1-17-2023)
16-11-9: RECREATIONAL OPEN SPACE:
The purpose of this section is to provide recommendations for recreational open
space in newly developing residential areas. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-9-1: COMPUTATION OF RECREATIONAL OPEN SPACE REQUIRED:
   A.   The suggested amount of recreational open space in a proposed
development generally should be five hundred (500) square feet per proposed
detached single-family home and three hundred (300) square feet per proposed
multi-family unit. The multi-family dwelling unit rate applies to any
residential dwelling unit other than detached single-family dwellings. When a
plat is requested for mixed land uses, this subsection shall apply only to
those areas of the plat devoted to residential uses.
   B.   The recreational open space may include waterways, detention/retention
areas, and ponds provided that those areas do not constitute more than fifty
percent (50%) of the amount of recreational open space required in subsection A
of this section.
   C.   Where the proposed subdivision abuts undeveloped lands, the
recreational open space land may be located adjacent to the subdivision
boundaries with the undeveloped land, at the discretion of the city council, to
allow the recreational open space to be increased in size when the adjacent
property develops. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-9-2: RESPONSIBILITY FOR SITE PREPARATION:
   A.   The subdivider or developer shall grade and seed the recreational open
space.
   B.   Where the recreational open space is located adjacent to a street, the
subdivider or developer shall be responsible for the installation of utilities
and other improvements required along that street segment. The developer shall
also provide utility service laterals for water and sewer.
   C.   The subdivider or developer shall be responsible for installing
satisfactory ground cover and controlling erosion on recreational open space
that has been disrupted as a result of development activities. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009)
16-11-9-3: OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT:
The recreational open space may be owned and managed by one or a combination of
the following:
   A.   A property owners' association.
   B.   A nonprofit conservation organization.
   C.   Public dedication. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-10: SUSTAINABLE SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT TOOLS:
   A.   After the effective date hereof, the sustainable subdivision
development tools apply to all new major subdivisions.
   B.   After a preapplication conference, the subdivider shall submit a
preliminary plat and other written or graphic materials necessary to
demonstrate what sustainable subdivision tools will be incorporated into the
proposed subdivision.
   C.   New subdivisions shall achieve a minimum score of forty (40) points by
utilizing the following list of sustainable subdivision development tools:
Conservation subdivision. Development is clustered to optimize open space,
preserve natural features, protect environmentally sensitive areas, and      40
minimize infrastructure demands.
Cottage design subdivision. Development reflects traditional neighborhood
design, with smaller lots, reduced setbacks, narrower rights of way, smaller 30
building footprints, alleys and/or clustering.
Solar subdivision. Development includes 70 percent "solar lots" that have a
minimum north-south dimension of 75 feet and a front line orientation that   30
is within 30 degrees of the true east-west axis.
Complete street design throughout the subdivision.                           15
Permeable street pavement throughout the subdivision.                        15
The development incorporates walking/bike trails. These trails should be
connected to the development and trails outside the development to the       15
greatest extent possible.
Green building code compliance for 100 percent of dwelling units throughout  10
the subdivision.
Rain gardens required by covenant for at least 80 percent of lots throughout 10
the subdivision.
Green building code compliance for 50 percent of dwelling units throughout   5
the subdivision.
Native and regionally appropriate trees and vegetation are preserved or
planted which limits turf grass, limits water demand, improves infiltration
or filtration, and enhances the natural environment. Such vegetation is      5
phased so denuded areas are quickly vegetated. Turf grass should not exceed
30 percent of the landscaped area.
No curb and gutter on city streets with appropriate bioswales and sidewalks.
The development incorporates detention basins for property on site           5
stormwater management. Retention basins can be used as an open water amenity
feature for on site stormwater management.
Parkway/street trees are planted at approximately 35 foot intervals to       5
reduce wind speeds, help stabilize the soil, and improve air quality.
Specify the planting of trees on private property to increase site shading
and reduce energy needs for houses. Place trees that lose their leaves in
the fall on the south and west sides of the house to provide shade to lower  5
cooling costs. Evergreen trees planted on the north and west sides protect
against winter winds, which can help reduce heating costs.
The development implements innovative infiltration or filtration techniques  5
such as rain gardens, bioswales, French drains, etc.
Use of any pavement that reduces the heat island effect throughout the       5
subdivision, such as light colored concrete.
Other best management practices, as per city planner or city engineer.       5
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-11: CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION:
A development that is characterized by compact lots and common open space, and
where the natural features of the land are maintained to the greatest extent
possible. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-11-1: CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Land Suitability: Land may be developed unless it is unsuitable for any
proposed use if identified as being environmentally sensitive. Areas identified
as being environmentally sensitive include, but are not limited to:
      1.   All areas mapped as floodplain by FEMA or IDNR, including a seventy
five foot (75') buffer.
      2.   All areas identified as wetlands by the IDNR, including a seventy
five foot (75') buffer.
      3.   Areas identified as wetlands by the IDNR that are known to provide
habitat for rare, threatened or endangered species.
      4.   Historic buildings and sites, archaeological sites and burial sites.
   B.   Residential Lot Requirements:
      1.   The lot configuration shall comply with the standards established by
the existing zoning district, unless a subdivision qualifies for a development
bonus.
      2.   Lots shall be configured to minimize the amount of impermeable
surfaces.
      3.   Most lots shall take access from interior local streets.
      4.   Lots shall be configured to minimize the amount of road length
required for the subdivision.
      5.   Development shall be configured to minimize loss of woodlands.
      6.   All lots within a neighborhood shall abut open space on at least one
side. A local street may separate lots from the open space.
      7.   Stormwater management best management practices (BMPs) shall be
followed in conformance with the sustainable subdivision development tools in
section
16-11-10 of this chapter.
   C.   Residential Cluster Siting Standards:
      1.   Residential lots and dwellings shall be grouped into clusters. Each
cluster shall contain no less than five (5) units.
      2.   Residential clusters shall be located to minimize negative impacts
on the natural, scenic and cultural resources of the site and conflicts between
incompatible uses.
      3.   Residential clusters shall avoid encroaching on environmentally
sensitive areas identified by the IDNR.
      4.   Whenever possible, open space shall connect with existing or
potential open space lands on adjoining parcels and local or regional
recreational trails.
      5.   Residential clusters should be sited to achieve the following goals,
to the extent practicable:
         a.   Minimize impacts to prime farmland soils and large tracts of land
in agricultural use, and avoid interference with normal agricultural practices.
         b.   Minimize disturbance to woodlands, wetlands, grasslands and
mature trees.
         c.   Minimize downstream impacts due to runoff through adequate on
site stormwater management practices.
         d.   Protect archaeological sites and existing historic buildings or
incorporate them through adaptive reuse.
   D.   Common Open Space Design:
      1.   Designated; Minimum Required: Open space may be designated as part
of the development. The minimum required open space to qualify for a
development bonus is forty percent (40%) of the subdivision.
      2.   Open Space Conservation Ranking (In Order Of Significance): The
areas to be preserved shall be identified on a case by case basis in an effort
to conserve and provide the best opportunities to restore and enlarge the best
quality natural features of each particular site.
         a.   First priority will be given to intact natural communities, rare
and endangered species, environmental corridors, natural and restored prairies,
significant historic and archaeological properties, and steep slopes.
         b.   Second priority will be given to areas providing some plant and
wildlife habitat and open space values.
         c.   Third priority will be given to areas providing little habitat
but providing viewshed, recreation, or a sense of open space.
      3.   Allowable Areas Or Structures: The following areas or structures may
be located within the open space area and shall be counted toward the overall
open space percentage required:
         a.   Parking areas for access to and use of the open space developed
at a scale limited to the potential users of the open space.
         b.   Privately held buildings or structures provided they are
accessory to the use of the open space.
      4.   Rights Of Way: Road rights of way shall not be counted towards the
required minimum open space.
      5.   Bodies Of Water: No more than fifty percent (50%) of the required
open space may consist of water bodies, ponds, floodplain or wetlands.
      6.   Plant And Animal Habitat: That portion of open space designed to
provide plant and animal habitat shall be kept as intact as possible. Trails
shall be designed to avoid fragmenting these areas.
      7.   Pathways: A pathway system connecting open space areas accessible to
neighborhood residents, and connecting these areas to neighborhood streets and
to planned or developed trails on adjacent parcels shall be identified in the
plan.
      8.   Ownership; Management: The designated common open space and common
facilities may be owned and managed by one or a combination of the following:
         a.   A property owners' association.
         b.   A nonprofit conservation organization.
         c.   Public dedication.
         d.   An individual who will use the land for open space purposes as
provided by a conservation easement.
      9.   Public Dedication Of Open Space: The city may accept the dedication
of fee title or dedication of a conservation easement to the common open space.
The city may accept the common open space provided:
         a.   The common open space is accessible to the residents of the city.
         b.   The city agrees to and has access to maintain the common open
space.
      10.   Individual Ownership: An individual may hold fee title to the land
while a nonprofit or other qualified organization holds a conservation easement
use for the common open space. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-11-2: CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT BONUS:
In consideration for setting aside areas determined as environmentally
sensitive, public park land, and common open space, a conservation subdivision
shall qualify for a development bonus.
   A.   Development Yield Analysis: The subdivider shall submit a table showing
the maximum number of dwelling units that would be permitted by the underlying
zoning designation, consistent with the minimum lot size, lot widths, setbacks
and other provisions of this title and compare it to the number of dwelling
units proposed. Land that is undeveloped because of other laws and ordinances
that prohibit development in certain areas (e.g., floodplains, wetlands, steep
slopes, and drainageways) shall be excluded from the development yield
analysis.
   B.   Development Bonus: The development bonus shall equal the overall
development density as determined by the development yield analysis, plus
twenty percent (20%).
   C.   Smaller Lot Development: To accommodate a qualified development bonus,
the subdivider may submit a plat for smaller lot development. Despite the lot
size, yard, and bulk regulations of this title, and any other applicable
requirements of the city, the zoning advisory commission and city council may
approve a development bonus for conservation subdivisions with lot area and
dimensions less than required by this title, and those lots shall be buildable,
provided that:
      1.   The purpose of creating the conservation subdivision with smaller
than normal lots is to encourage and promote flexibility, economy, and
environmental soundness in layout and design of residential developments only.
      2.   It is the intent of this section to allow lots that are smaller than
normally allowed by this title where all or most of the lots in the
conservation subdivision are of a similar size. It is not the intent of this
section to allow the creation of small remnant lots in subdivisions where most
lots meet the requirements stated herein.
      3.   No lot may be created that is so narrow, has such little area, or
that is so irregularly shaped that it would be impractical, as determined by
the zoning advisory commission at the time of the subdivision review, to
construct a principal structure on it that:
         a.   Could be used for purposes that are permissible in that zoning
district; and
         b.   Would satisfy all applicable lot coverage and setback
requirements for the zoning district in which the development is located. (Ord.
52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-12: SOLAR SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Definition: A "solar subdivision" is a development that includes at
least seventy percent (70%) "solar lots", which have a minimum north-south
dimension of seventy five feet (75') and a front line orientation that is
within thirty degrees (30°) of the true east-west axis.
   B.   Solar Access: To facilitate solar access, streets in a solar
subdivision shall be oriented in an east-west direction to the maximum extent
possible or to within twenty degrees (20°) of such orientation. This
requirement shall not apply to preliminary plats approved prior to the
effective date hereof, provided the final plat of the preliminary plat is
submitted within six (6) months, or to final plats submitted within six (6)
months of the preliminary plat approval or to portions of the subdivision where
the applicant demonstrates that:
      1.   There are other means of assuring solar access to lots in question,
including, but not limited to, cluster development on large parcels or through
the use of building setback or solar access easements.
      2.   Topographic conditions on or surrounding the land being subdivided
make such orientation unreasonable.
      3.   The shape and size of the property being subdivided make such
orientation unreasonable.
      4.   Adopted stormwater management plans or policies indicate a different
street orientation.
      5.   Existing or approved future development contiguous to the subject
property precludes adequate solar access to the portion in question.
      6.   Existing street patterns contiguous to the subject property make
such orientation unreasonable.
      7.   Specific adverse environmental impacts would occur on the site if
such orientation were achieved.
      8.   Desirable street circulation patterns require some streets to be in
a more north-south direction.
      9.   The final platting of only a portion of an approved preliminary plat
precludes changes in remaining portions of the preliminary plat which are
necessary to provide adequate solar access to the portion in question. (Ord.
52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-13: COTTAGE DESIGN SUBDIVISION:
The following regulations apply to cottage housing developments (CHDs):
   A.   Bulk Regulations:
      1.   The minimum lot area for a CHD shall be two thousand five hundred
(2,500) square feet.
      2.   The height limit permitted for structures in CHDs shall be eighteen
feet (18').
      3.   The ridge of pitched roofs with a minimum slope of six to twelve (6:
12) may extend up to twenty five feet (25'). All parts of the roof above
eighteen feet (18') shall be pitched.
      4.   The maximum lot coverage permitted for principal and accessory
structures in CHDs shall not exceed fifty percent (50%).
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yards: The front yard shall be ten feet (10').
      2.   Rear Yards: The minimum rear yard shall be ten feet (10').
      3.   Side Yards: The minimum required side yard shall be five feet (5').
      4.   Courtyards: Landscaped, usable common open space.
   C.   Number Of Units: The development shall have a minimum of six (6)
dwelling units and no more than twelve (12) dwelling units per courtyard.
   D.   Dwelling Size: Single-story dwellings in cottage developments shall not
exceed eight hundred (800) square feet. Two-story structures shall not exceed a
total square footage of one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
   E.   Required Courtyard:
      1.   A courtyard shall be provided that abuts the front, rear, or side
yards of at least fifty percent (50%) of the cottage units.
      2.   A minimum of four hundred (400) square feet per cottage unit of
courtyard is required.
      3.   All of the cottage units shall be within sixty feet (60') walking
distance of the courtyard, and the courtyard shall have cottages abutting at
least two (2) sides.
   F.   Parking:
      1.   Spaces Required: One space per dwelling unit and 0.5 space per
cottage unit for visitor parking shall be required.
      2.   Location:
         a.   Parking shall be on the CHD property.
         b.   Parking may be in or under a structure or outside a structure,
provided that:
            (1)   Visitor parking is screened from direct street view by garage
doors, or by a screening fence and/or landscaping.
            (2)   Parking between structures is only allowed when it is located
toward the rear of the principal structure and is served by a private driveway.
            (3)   Parking may not be located in the front yard.
            (4)   Parking may be located between any structure and the rear lot
line of the lot or between any structure and a side lot line which is not a
street frontage.
   G.   Project Review: Cottage housing developments are reviewed through the
city's subdivision review procedure. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-14: BLOCKS AND LOTS:
   A.   Numbering: All blocks and lots shall be numbered systematically for
identification.
   B.   Lot And Area Dimensions: The minimum area and dimensions for lots shall
conform to the applicable requirements of the area regulations of this title.
All lots shall front on a public street or an approved private street. Lots
with double frontages shall not be permitted unless one frontage is an arterial
street without access rights. Triangular lots shall be avoided whenever
possible.
   C.   Lot Lines: Insofar as practical, the side lot lines shall be
perpendicular to the street on which the lot fronts.
   D.   Remnant Lots: In cases where irregularity of ownership or street lines
would produce remnant lots less than the minimum area required by this title,
such area shall be added to adjoining lots.
   E.   Exceptional Sized Lots: When the tract is subdivided into parcels
larger than the usual building lots, such tract shall be divided so as to allow
for the opening of streets and such parcels shall be multiples, in area, of
units not less than the lot areas required by this title.
   F.   Mid Block Pedestrian Access Easements: All blocks which exceed one
thousand feet (1,000') in length shall be provided with a mid block pedestrian
access easement. Mid block pedestrian access easements shall be provided to
enhance connectivity within and between residential areas. Easements shall be
provided in all blocks where the city planner determines, that due to
topography, physical constraint, or excessive block length such easement would
benefit the health and welfare of the public. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-15: STREETS:
   A.   General: The arrangement of arterial and collector streets shall
conform to the circulation plan of the comprehensive plan. For streets not
shown in the comprehensive plan, the arrangement shall provide for the
appropriate extension of existing streets. Private streets shall conform to
city standards for private streets.
   B.   Right Of Way:
      1.   The right of way shall be measured from lot line to lot line and
shall be sufficiently wide to contain the street pavement, curbs, shoulders,
sidewalks, utilities, street lighting and street trees placed within the right
of way.
      2.   The right of way width of a new street that is a continuation of an
existing street shall in no case be continued at a width less than that of the
existing street. The right of way width shall vary with street classification
according to the city standards.
      3.   Dedication of half street right of way is discouraged but may be
approved by the commission and city council to serve the public interest. Lots
abutting on such right of way shall be nonbuildable until the remainder of the
street is dedicated to the public.
   C.   Street Classification:
      1.   Streets shall be classified by the city engineer as arterial,
collector, local or alley. The street hierarchy shall be defined by the city
engineer based on road function and average daily traffic in accordance with
the city standards.
      2.   Each street shall be classified and designed for its entire length
to meet the standards for one of the street types defined in the city
standards.
      3.   The owner shall demonstrate to the zoning advisory commission's and
city council's satisfaction that the distribution of traffic to the proposed
street system will not exceed the requirements set forth in the city standards.
   D.   Street Width: Street width shall consider possible limitations imposed
by sight distances, climate, terrain, and maintenance needs. Street widths for
each street classification shall conform to the city standards.
   E.   Pavement Standards: Street pavement thickness shall vary by street
classification, subgrade properties and pavement type as specified in the city
standards.
   F.   Street Alignment: Arterial and collector streets shall be continued in
as direct an alignment as topography and other conditions permit. Local streets
shall conform to the prevailing topography of the subdivision.
   G.   Street Grades: The minimum gradient for all streets shall be one-half
percent (1/2%). The maximum gradient for arterial streets shall be eight
percent (8%); for collector streets ten percent (10%); and for local streets
twelve percent (12%). Grades of up to fifteen percent (15%) may be allowed on
secondary access, local streets with the approval of the zoning advisory
commission and city council. The grade within the circle of a cul-de-sac shall
be no more than four percent (4%). (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
   H.   Names Of Streets: Names of streets that are aligned with existing or
platted streets, or essentially so, shall bear the names of the existing
streets. Names for new streets shall not duplicate in spelling, nor sound
phonetically similar to existing street names in the city or county of Dubuque.
Proposed street names for public or private streets shall be labeled on the
submitted preliminary plat. (Ord. 26-13, 5-20-2013)
   I.   Easements: Easements shall be provided as determined necessary for
public utility requirements. Public utility easements shall be a minimum of ten
feet (10') in width and may vary as needed. Storm sewer and sanitary sewer
easements and water main easements shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') in
width.
   J.   Curbs:
      1.   Curb requirements and construction shall be in accordance with the
city standards.
      2.   Where curbing is not required, as in planned developments or within
two (2) miles of the city limits, edge definition and stabilization shall be
furnished as recommended by the city engineer. Shoulders and swales shall be
reviewed on a case by case basis with the city engineer.
      3.   Curbing shall be designed to provide a ramp for wheelchairs and
handicapped access as required by state and federal law and city standards.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
   K.   Complete Streets Policy:
      1.   General: The city's comprehensive plan supports the development of a
comprehensive bike/hike trail system to provide multimodal transportation for
the city. Streets that are designed for only cars limit transportation choices
by making walking, bicycling and taking public transportation inconvenient,
unattractive and potentially dangerous. The city currently implements curb
ramp, sidewalk, signage and trail projects that support the implementation of
complete street design. The city's complete streets policy will take into
account the potential for additional cost associated with the construction of
complete streets and recognizes that not every new public street will be
suitable for implementing all aspects of complete street design. Planning staff
will review application of complete street design as part of the major
subdivision review process.
      2.   Complete Street Design Goals:
         a.   Design and construct new streets in anticipation of increased
demand for bicycling, walking and transit facilities.
         b.   Design and construct new streets that allow for future
improvements to accommodate complete street design attributes, such as
provision of extra right of way to accommodate an off street bike trail in the
future.
         c.   New public streets that implement all or some components of
complete street design shall utilize standards found in the following design
guidelines:
            (1)   AASHTO (American Association Of State Highway And
Transportation Officials).
            (2)   SUDAS (statewide urban design and specifications program).
            (3)   Federal highway administration.
            (4)   ITE (Institute Of Transportation Engineers).
      3.   Complete Street Applications:
         a.   Most collector and arterial streets are constructed/reconstructed
by the city of Dubuque and hence application of complete street design criteria
will be handled through the city's internal design and approval process.
         b.   Local residential streets in most new residential subdivisions
will incorporate some complete street design criteria, such as sidewalks on
both sides of the street, curb ramps at intersection corners, etc.
         c.   Collector streets within new subdivision, in addition to above,
may restrict driveway access to side streets to facilitate on street bike
trails, could include wide sidewalks and parkways to facilitate walking. (Ord.
1-12, 1-17-2012)
16-11-16: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Sidewalks shall be required on all public street frontages and
constructed of concrete or permeable pavement in accordance with the city and
ADA standards.
   B.   Sidewalks shall be placed five feet (5') behind the curb parallel to
the street, unless an exception has been permitted by the city engineer to
preserve topographical or natural features or to provide visual interest, or
unless the subdivider shows that an alternative pedestrian system provides safe
and convenient circulation.
   C.   In planned developments, sidewalks may be located away from the road
system to link dwelling units with other dwelling units, the street and on site
activity centers such as parking areas and recreational areas. They may also be
required parallel to the street for safety and other reasons.
   D.   Sidewalk installation shall be the responsibility of the owner of
property abutting the public right-of-way. This responsibility shall extend to
all successors, heirs and assignees. Sidewalk installation shall be required
when the development of a lot has been completed. All vacant lots shall have
sidewalks installed upon development of eighty percent (80%) of the lots shown
on the approved final plat. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-17: BIKEWAYS:
   A.   Separate bicycle paths shall be required in accordance with the
comprehensive plan.
   B.   Bicycle lanes, where required, shall be placed in the outside lane of a
roadway adjacent to the curb or shoulder. When on street parking is permitted,
the bicycle lane may share the parking or travel lane where feasible. Lanes
shall be delineated with markings, preferably striping. Raised reflectors or
curbs shall not be used. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-18: UTILITY LOCATION:
Utilities shall generally be located within the right-of-way on both sides of
and parallel to the street, in accordance with the City standards. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-11-19: STREET TREES:
Street trees shall be located within the right-of-way on both sides of and
parallel to the street, in accordance with subsection 6-8-1B of this Code and
the "City of Dubuque Street Tree and Landscaping On Public Right-of-Way
Policy". (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-20: WATER SUPPLY:
See title 14, chapter 15 of this Code for water regulations. (Ord. 37-15, 6-1-
2015)
16-11-21: SANITARY SEWER:
   A.   All sanitary sewer installations for major and minor subdivisions shall
be properly connected to an approved and functioning sanitary sewer system in
accordance with the City standards.
   B.   If a public sanitary sewer system will be provided to the area within a
three (3) year period as indicated in the comprehensive plan, the City Council
may require installation of a capped system within the street or road right-of-
way; or the City Council may require a payment in lieu of the improvement.
   C.   All proposals for new public sanitary sewer systems, extensions to
existing public sanitary sewer systems or the installation of a capped system,
or use of individual subsurface disposal systems, shall be approved by the City
Engineer.
   D.   The sanitary sewer system shall be adequate to handle the necessary
flow based on complete development of the subdivision and extensions of the
system to areas beyond the subdivision. Sanitary sewer system design and
placement shall comply with the City standards. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-22: STORMWATER, GRADING AND EROSION CONTROL:
   A.   Design of the stormwater, grading and erosion control management system
shall be consistent with general and specific concerns, values, and standards
of the comprehensive plan and applicable County, regional, and State storm
drainage control programs. Design shall be in accordance with the City
standards and this title.
   B.   The best available technology shall be used to minimize the impact to
adjacent properties, off site stormwater runoff, increase on site infiltration,
encourage natural filtration functions, simulate natural drainage systems, and
minimize off site discharge of pollutants to ground and surface water, in
accordance with the City standards, this title, State and Federal regulations.
   C.   Preliminary and final grading and erosion control plans shall comply
with title 14, chapter 12 of this Code and the City standards. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009)
16-11-23: OBLIGATION TO INSTALL IMPROVEMENTS:
Improvements including streets, sanitary sewers, stormwater management
facilities, water mains, streetlights, street trees, and sidewalks shall be
installed by the owner in accordance with City standards, the approved final
plat, and the approved improvement plans. Improvements shall be installed
within the time frame specified in the resolution approving the final plat and
improvement plans. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-11-24: IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES:
   A.   Application: Before the recording of final plats, or as a condition of
approval of final plats, the City Council shall require the following
guarantees:
      1.   The furnishing of a performance guarantee by the owner in an amount
not less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the cost of construction of
required improvements. Upon determination by the City Engineer that a required
improvement is substantially complete, the amount of such guarantee shall be
reduced to twenty five percent (25%) of the cost of construction of the
required improvement. "Substantially complete" shall mean that the required
improvement has been inspected by the City Engineer and determined by the City
Engineer to be constructed in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications; and
      2.   Provision for a maintenance guarantee in the amount of twenty five
percent (25%) of the cost of the required improvements by the owner for a
period of two (2) years after final acceptance of the improvements by the City
Council; and
      3.   The owner shall pay required inspection fees equal to three percent
(3%) of the construction costs of the required improvements.
   B.   Time Extension: The time allowed for installation of the improvements
for which the performance guarantee has been provided may be extended by the
City Council by resolution.
   C.   Inspection: Upon completion of all required improvements, the owner
shall notify the City Engineer in writing of the completion of improvements.
The City Engineer shall inspect all improvements of which such notice has been
given and shall file a detailed report, in writing, with the City Manager and
property owner, indicating either approval or rejection of such improvements
with a statement of reasons for any rejection.
   D.   Performance And Maintenance Guarantees: Performance and maintenance
guarantees may be provided by a variety of means subject to the approval of the
City including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Surety Bond: The owner may obtain a surety bond from a surety
bonding company authorized to do business in the State; or
      2.   Letter Of Credit: The owner may provide an irrevocable letter of
credit on a form provided by the City and from a financial institution
acceptable to the City; or
      3.   Escrow Account: The owner may deposit cash, or cash equivalent,
either with the City, or with a financial institution acceptable to the City,
pursuant to an escrow agreement acceptable to the City; or
      4.   Certificate Of Deposit: The owner may deposit a certificate of
deposit in the name of the City, with a financial institution acceptable to the
City. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 12
SITE PLANS
SECTION:
16-12-1: Purpose
16-12-2: Application And Scope Of Site Plan Review And Approval
16-12-3: Development Activities Subject To Site Plan Review
16-12-4: Administrative Waiver
16-12-5: Site Plan Review Procedures
16-12-6: Site Plan Application Requirements
16-12-7: Site Plan Appeals
16-12-1: PURPOSE:
The site plan review provisions of this chapter are intended to promote
functional and aesthetic design of property development within the city. These
provisions are intended to alleviate the potentially harmful effects on
adjoining land of new development by encouraging site plans that respect their
environmental, land use and economic context. Regulations of this chapter
should ensure that new structures, utilities, streets, parking, circulation
systems, yards and open spaces are designed in the most efficient, attractive
and harmonious manner. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-12-2: APPLICATION AND SCOPE OF SITE PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
No building permit shall be issued, and no construction, grading or other land
development activity listed in this chapter may be commenced on property unless
a site plan has been submitted and approved for such activity as set forth in
this chapter. Development activities subject to the requirements of this
chapter may hereafter be carried out only in substantial conformance with the
approved site plan and any conditions or restrictions attached thereto.
Material changes shall not be made to an approved site plan without the
approval of the city. A permanent certificate of occupancy for a new
development shall not be issued until all stormwater control, sanitary sewer,
water mains, off street parking facilities and all other site plan requirements
have been constructed and approved by the city, and are fully operational.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-12-3: DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES SUBJECT TO SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Site plan review is required for construction or expansion of any
building, structure or freestanding sign except single- family detached
dwellings, duplexes and townhouses of not more than two (2) units and permitted
accessory structures to a single-family dwelling or duplex. Driveways to said
single- family and duplex dwelling units, garages and carports shall be paved
with a hard surface as defined in chapter 2 of this title.
   B.   Any change, alteration or modification in a structure or use which
would require the provision of additional off street parking spaces, additional
lot area, or other substantial change in zoning requirements applicable to such
structure or use.
   C.   The construction or creation of any parking lot or the expansion of any
existing parking lot. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-12-4: ADMINISTRATIVE WAIVER:
The city planner may waive the requirements for site plan review for any
development activity within the scope of this chapter where the city planner
reasonably believes that such a waiver will not adversely affect the purposes
and intent of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-12-5: SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURES:
   A.   Applicants for site plan review shall meet with the city planner or
designee prior to submission of a site plan. The purpose of this meeting is to
acquaint the applicant with site development standards and procedures. This
meeting shall also serve to allow the applicant to present the scope and nature
of the proposed project to the city planner or designee.
   B.   Following the initial meeting, the applicant may submit a completed
site plan for review. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-12-6: SITE PLAN APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
All applications for site plan review shall be prepared to show all information
currently required by the city, a list of which shall be available from the
planning services department. At least six (6) copies are required for all site
plan sheets, drawings and written information. The city planner shall
coordinate review of the submitted site plan with appropriate city departments.
   A.   The city engineer shall approve and regulate the construction of new
streets, driveways, curb cuts and other paved surfaces, and stormwater
facilities, sanitary sewer and erosion control measures and facilities.
   B.   Within fourteen (14) working days of receiving a site plan, the city
planner shall notify the applicant of any approval, conditional approval or
disapproval. In cases of conditional approval or disapproval, written
notification shall be given for the reasons of such action.
   C.   Site plan approvals are valid for a period of two (2) years from the
date of approval, during which time a building permit must be applied for. The
city planner shall have the authority to grant one extension for a period of up
to twelve (12) months, provided the approved site plan is still compliant with
all current city codes and ordinances.
   D.   One copy of the approved site plan shall be returned to the applicant.
One copy of the approved site plan shall remain on file in the planning
services department. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-12-7: SITE PLAN APPEALS:
   A.   The site plan review applicant, any aggrieved citizen, or any two (2)
members of the zoning advisory commission may, upon notice, appeal in whole or
in part, any determination or decision of the city planner made within the
scope of this chapter, including a decision to waive site plan review made
pursuant to section
16-12-4 of this chapter. Appeal is without cost and shall be made by delivery
of written notification of the appeal to the planning services department
within the fifteen (15) days immediately following the decision or
determination from which appeal is sought.
   B.   The zoning advisory commission shall review all appeals, and to that
end shall have all the powers and duties of the city planner relative to site
plan review. The affirmative vote of at least four (4) commissioners shall be
necessary to affirm, overturn, or modify the decision from which appeal is
sought. At the commission meeting, the appealing party or parties and all other
interested parties shall be presented a reasonable opportunity to present their
views. Following the appeals hearing, the commission must take action no later
than the next regularly scheduled commission meeting. A failure to act within
such period shall have the effect of affirming the determination from which
appeal has been made. Decisions of the zoning advisory commission may be
appealed to the zoning board of adjustment in the same manner as appeals from a
decision of an administrative officer. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 13
SITE DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
16-13-1: Intent
16-13-2: Applicability
16-13-3: Site Development Requirements
16-13-3-1: Extension Of Public Improvements
16-13-3-2: Site Lighting
16-13-3-3: Utility Locations
16-13-3-4: Stormwater Management
16-13-3-5: Parking Structures
16-13-3-6: Parking Lot Layout
16-13-3-6-1: Parking Lot Provisions For Bicycle Parking
16-13-3-6-2: Parking Lot Lighting
16-13-3-6-3: Standard Parking Space Dimensions
16-13-3-7: Sidewalks And Walkways
16-13-4: Landscaping And Screening Requirements
16-13-4-1: Intent
16-13-4-2: Application And Scope
16-13-4-3: Landscape Area Requirements
16-13-4-4: Site Landscaping
16-13-4-5: Preservation Of Existing Trees
16-13-4-6: Parking Lot Landscaping
16-13-4-7: Street Trees
16-13-4-8: Screening Requirements
16-13-4-9: Exterior Trash Collection Areas
16-13-4-10: Exterior Storage In Nonresidential Districts
16-13-4-11: Installation, Maintenance And Replacement Of Landscaping And
Screening
16-13-5: Design Standards For Big Box Retail Uses
16-13-6: Design Standards For Retail Commercial Uses And Regional Shopping
Centers
16-13-7: Design Standards For Biofuels Production Facilities
16-13-1: INTENT:
These site design standards are established in order to achieve the following
goals:
   A.   Provide standards for the orderly development of the city and the
promotion of quality sustainable development.
   B.   Implement the goals, objectives and policies of the comprehensive plan
related to quality development and neighborhood compatibility.
   C.   Maintain and protect the value of property.
   D.   Maintain a high quality of life without significantly increasing public
or private costs for development or unduly restricting private enterprise,
initiative, or innovation in design.
   E.   Ensure that the placement of buildings, structures, fences, lighting
and fixtures on each site shall not interfere with traffic circulation, safety,
appropriate use and enjoyment of adjacent properties.
   F.   Preserve and enhance property values by ensuring that yards, open
spaces, parking lots and public rights of way are designed and maintained with
respect to plants and landscape materials.
   G.   Ensure that development respects land capabilities and constraints,
minimizes erosion and destruction of natural amenities, and reduces conflicts
between lands and uses. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-13-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   New Development: Development requiring a site plan under section
16-12-3 of this title on a site that is vacant or substantially cleared real
estate, and not in a special development area, shall comply with the site
design standards set forth herein.
   B.   Redevelopment: Development requiring a site plan under section
16-12-3 of this title on a site with improved real estate, involving partial
clearance of twenty five percent (25%) or more of the building area and/or
expansion of twenty five percent (25%) or more of the building area existing at
the time of adoption of this title, and not in a special development area,
shall comply with the site design standards set forth herein.
   C.   Special Development Areas: Development requiring a site plan under
section
16-12-3 of this title that is in one of the following special development areas
may be subject to design standards or guidelines in addition to or in lieu of
the site design standards set forth herein, as follows:
      1.   Urban Renewal Districts: These districts have planning and other
criteria that may take precedence over the site design standards set forth
herein.
      2.   Port Of Dubuque Design Standards: This area has design standards
that may take precedence over the site design standards set forth herein.
      3.   Planned Unit Development (PUD) Districts: These districts may have
site development and performance standards that may take precedence over the
site design standards set forth herein.
      4.   Historic Districts: Historic districts, as regulated by chapter 10
of this title, have architectural guidelines that may take precedence over the
site design standards set forth herein.
      5.   Old Town Neighborhood Overlay District: This overlay district has
design guidelines that may take precedence over the site design standards set
forth herein.
      6.   Architectural Guidelines: These guidelines apply to the downtown
design guidelines area and historic millwork district in accordance with city
policy, and may take precedence over the site design standards set forth
herein.
   D.   Waiver From Site Design Standards: The zoning advisory commission shall
have the power to grant such waivers from the site design standards of this
chapter, as may be reasonable and within the general purpose and intent of the
site plan review and approval provisions of this chapter if the literal
enforcement of one or more provisions of this chapter is impracticable or will
exact an undue hardship because of peculiar conditions pertaining to the land
in question. The affirmative vote of at least four (4) commissioners shall be
necessary to grant a waiver. The waiver may be granted subject to such
conditions as the commission may establish to ensure the general purpose and
intent of the provisions of this chapter are followed. At the commission
meeting, the applicant and all other interested parties shall be presented a
reasonable opportunity to present their views. Decisions of the zoning advisory
commission may be appealed to the zoning board of adjustment in the same manner
as appeals from a decision of an administrative officer. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009; amd. Ord. 7-11, 1-18-2011; Ord. 45-16, 9-19-2016; Ord. 11-21, 4-19-2021)
16-13-3: SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
16-13-3-1: EXTENSION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Installation Of Improvements: Public improvements including streets,
sanitary sewers, storm sewers, stormwater management facilities, water mains,
street lighting, street trees, and sidewalks shall be installed in accordance
with the city standards.
      1.   Definitions: For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms have
the following meanings:
 
                            Any change to improved or unimproved real estate,
                            including, but not limited to, buildings or other
DEVELOPMENT :               structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
                            paving, excavation, or drilling operations for
                            which necessary permits may be required.
                            A pipe, vault, or duct used to enclose fiberoptic
                            cable facilities buried alongside a roadway or
FIBEROPTIC NETWORK CONDUIT: surface mounted on a bridge, overpass, or other
                            facility where placement below ground is impossible
                            or impractical. "Fiberoptic network conduit" does
                            not include electronics or cable.
                            Streets, sanitary sewers, water mains,
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT:         streetlights, sidewalks, bike/hike trails, and
                            fiber conduit.
 
      2.   Requirement of Developer: For all subdivision or site plan
developments, the developer shall connect all public improvements to other
streets, sanitary sewers, water mains, streetlights, and fiber network conduit,
and bike/hike trails within and through the subdivision or site development,
and to the property lines, to provide for their extension to adjacent
properties.
Public improvements shall be designed and installed in accordance with the
current city standards and specifications and within the time frame specified
in the resolution approving the final plat or improvement plan. The developer
shall pay the total cost of engineering and construction of extensions of such
public improvements.
Plans for such extensions must be approved by the city engineer. The city
engineer may grant a waiver of the extension requirements on such terms and
conditions as the city engineer determines appropriate.
      3.   Water Mains:
         a.   Water mains must be sized to meet requirements for domestic plus
fire flow water demands and in accordance with city. The city may require the
design and construction of water mains with the ability to service lands other
than the immediately adjoining land and may require installation of water mains
sized larger than the minimum required to provide domestic and fire flow needs
for the development. In this circumstance, the city shall reimburse the
developer for the incremental difference in material cost above that of the
cost for water main materials needed to provide domestic and fire flow needs.
The city will not reimburse the developer for water mains above eight inch (8")
if larger diameter water main is needed to provide domestic plus fire flow
water demands in the development.
         b.   Only mains sized larger than an eight inch (8") main may be
considered eligible for reimbursement purposes. The reimbursement will be based
on the difference in pipe and fitting costs only, and no allowance will be made
for the difference in installation costs. The developer must provide the city
engineer with a current pipe supplier price list for the water main pipe and
appurtenances needed to serve the development and the price for the increased
pipe size and appurtenances. The city engineer will calculate the reimbursement
amount and will document the reimbursement amount in an agreement between the
city and the developer.
         c.   In areas where water main may be extended by a developer past
properties owned by others outside of the final plat so as to serve the area of
the final plat, such extension shall be at no expense to the city. The city
shall not be obligated to collect any portion of this cost for reimbursement to
the developer.
      4.   Sanitary Sewers:
         a.   All sanitary sewers mains must be a minimum of eight inch (8")
diameter pipe.
         b.   The sanitary sewer extension must be sized by the developer and
approved by the city engineer to serve the development and the development of
upstream sewershed property that may be served by the sewer extension.
         c.   When the upstream sewershed property would require the developer
to increase the pipe diameter, the city shall reimburse the developer for the
incremental difference in sanitary sewer pipe cost above the cost for sanitary
sewer pipe needed to provide service for the development. The reimbursement
will be based on the difference in sanitary sewer pipe costs only and no
allowance will be made for the difference in installation costs.
         d.   The city will not reimburse developers for any increase in
sanitary sewer pipe diameter beyond eight inch (8") diameter if the increase in
size is a direct result of the development needs.
      5.   The developer must provide the city engineer with a current pipe
supplier price list for the sanitary sewer pipe needed to serve the development
and the price for the increased sanitary sewer pipe size. The city engineer
will calculate the reimbursement amount and will document the reimbursement
amount in an agreement between the city and the developer.
      6.   When a developer is installing a sanitary sewer lift station to
serve the development, the developer is responsible for proper capacity sizing
of the lift station to accept flow from upstream sewershed properties.
      7.   When the upstream sewershed properties would require the developer
to increase the sanitary sewer lift station capacity, the city shall reimburse
the developer for the incremental difference in sanitary sewer lift station
capacity cost above the cost for the sanitary sewer lift station needed to
provide capacity for the development as determined by the city engineer. The
reimbursement will be based on the difference in sanitary sewer lift station
costs only and no allowance will be made for the difference in installation
costs. (Ord. 2-23, 1-17-2023)
16-13-3-2: SITE LIGHTING:
   A.   The following site features shall be illuminated by an exterior light
source:
      1.   Driveways and loading facilities; and
      2.   Pedestrian walkway surfaces and entrances to buildings.
   B.   The location and design of site lighting shall conform to the
following:
      1.   All exterior lighting shall be designed, installed and maintained so
as not to cause glare or to shine in adjacent lots and streets;
      2.   No light sources shall provide illumination onto adjacent lots,
buildings or streets in excess of one foot-candle;
      3.   All exterior lighting luminaries shall be designed and installed to
shield light from the luminaire at angles above seventy two degrees (72°) from
vertical;
      4.   Fixtures mounted on a building shall not be positioned higher than
the roofline of the building;
      5.   Wooden utility type poles are acceptable only for temporary use
during construction; and
      6.   All electrical service lines to posts and fixtures shall be
installed underground and concealed inside the posts. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009;
amd. Ord. 2-23, 1-17-2023)
16-13-3-3: UTILITY LOCATIONS:
Service lines and mechanical equipment for utilities shall be located in
accordance with the following requirements:
   A.   Service Lines: All electrical, telephone, cable, and other similar
utility lines serving the building and other site features shall be located
underground.
   B.   Mechanical Equipment: All roof mounted and ground mounted electrical
transformers, switching gears, relay boxes, meters, air conditioning units,
heat pumps and other similar mechanical equipment shall be screened from view
to the height of the equipment. Roof mounted mechanical equipment shall be
screened in such a manner that it will appear to be an integral part of the
building's overall architectural design. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2-
23, 1-17-2023)
16-13-3-4: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
Stormwater management systems shall be designed in accordance with the
requirements of title 14, chapter 12 of this code, as amended. The site,
including parking lots, shall be developed using two (2) or more of the
following low impact development tools or other best management practices
approved by the city engineer:
   A.   Reduced Lot Grading: Ground slope reduction outside the immediate
perimeter of a building (where foundation drainage is not a concern) to promote
stormwater infiltration or filtration.
   B.   Check Dams: Where narrow areas and/or excessive grades force the
construction of less than ideal steep swales, rock check dams can be added to
slow flows, minimize erosion, and improve infiltration or filtration.
   C.   French Drains And Soak Away Pits: Rock filled trenches that promote
rapid infiltration or filtration.
   D.   Green Roofs: Vegetated roofs that reduce runoff, improve energy
efficiency, and create a green amenity.
   E.   Microbasins: Small depressions to create longer flow paths or localized
depressions to encourage longer standing water periods and infiltration or
filtration.
   F.   Permeable Pavements: Open graded, permeable asphalt pavement; open cell
unit pavers; and porous concrete – typically used in parking lots and low
traffic areas – to provide storage space and another infiltration or filtration
route for stormwater.
   G.   Rainwater Harvesting Systems: Cisterns and rain barrels that harvest
water from roof drains and downspouts for landscape watering and nonpotable
uses.
   H.   Sidewalks And Drives Sloped Toward Open Space: A tool to provide water
for site vegetation, which slows surface water flow, improving infiltration.
This technique eliminates the need for curbs, gutters, and catch basins, and
the open space slows the transport of untreated water and associated pollutants
while reducing construction costs.
   I.   Bioswales: Vegetated swales with amended soil backfill and underdrains
to improve infiltration or filtration.
   J.   Native Plantings: Use of native plants to reduce the need for
irrigation and reduce runoff. Native plants also slow runoff and improve
infiltration or filtration with their deep, fibrous root systems.
   K.   Open Water Features: To reduce runoff through evapotranspiration,
improve habitats, and create attractive community amenities.
   L.   Rain Gardens: Landscape depressions filled with amended, permeable soil
and native, deep rooted, moisture tolerant plants to promote infiltration or
filtration.
   M.   Swales: Serpentine, vegetated drainageways that convey water slowly and
improve infiltration or filtration.
   N.   Trees And Other Plantings: Landscaping to intercept rainfall, reduce
erosion, improve infiltration or filtration, slow runoff, and reduce peak
flows.
   O.   Tree Filters: Systems that divert a portion of parking lot stormwater
from gutters into tree planters, where water infiltrates amended soils and
surrounds plant roots.
   P.   Vegetative Buffers: Bands of native plantings that intercept runoff
from developed areas before it reaches detention basins or natural watercourses
(for pretreatment).
SITE LANDSCAPING
Reduced Lot Grading/Rain Gardens
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5248.png]
 
Native Landscape/Vegetative Buffers
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5246.png]
 
Green Road Medians
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5244.png]
 
Vegetative Buffer Strip
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5242.png]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2-23, 1-17-2023)
16-13-3-5: PARKING STRUCTURES:
Parking decks and ramps shall be designed in compliance with these design
standards in order to appear compatible with and similar to other
nonresidential buildings:
   A.   The ground floor facade abutting any public street or sidewalk shall be
designed and architecturally detailed to resemble a commercial or office
building.
   B.   Where possible, the ground floor abutting a public street or sidewalk
should include commercial or office uses.
   C.   The design of upper floors shall ensure that sloped floors do not
dominate the appearance of the facade.
   D.   Windows or openings shall be provided that mimic those of nearby
buildings. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2-23, 1-17-2023)
16-13-3-6: PARKING LOT LAYOUT:
   A.   All parking lots and driveways shall be hard surfaced. Parking on
gravel, dirt or unreinforced turf is prohibited.
   B.   Parking lot edges and planting islands may be defined by concrete curb
and gutter and/or incorporate approved biofiltration methods. Parking spaces
shall be defined with painted striping or other approved methods.
   C.   Off street parking shall be located to the rear and/or side of
buildings, when practical. When parking or parking access must be located in
the front yard, a landscaped buffer shall be provided.
   D.   Parking bays in excess of eleven (11) spaces in length shall provide
landscaping at the ends of each aisle in accordance with subsection
16-13-4-6C of this chapter. Parking bays in excess of twenty (20) spaces in
length shall be divided by intermediate landscaped islands, and provide
landscaping at the ends of each aisle.
   E.   Where perpendicular parking spaces are used, the space adjacent to the
closed end of an aisle shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') wide.
   F.   An adequate driveway throat length shall be provided to minimize
traffic conflicts; the driveway throat length shall be the distance between the
street and the parking lot served by a driveway. Parking spaces shall not be
permitted within the driveway throat. Driveway throat lengths for commercial
and industrial uses shall be determined by the city engineer.
   G.   Parking spaces shall be provided and located as required by the ADA
standards for accessibility.
   H.   Parking lots which will be developed in phases require a phasing plan
to identify all current and future parking lot requirements. Parking areas
should be constructed incrementally to match land use build out schedules.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2-23, 1-17-2023)
16-13-3-6-1: PARKING LOT PROVISIONS FOR BICYCLE PARKING:
   A.   Bicycle parking shall be required in accordance with section
16-14-9 of this title.
   B.   Bicycle parking spaces shall be at least as close as the closest
automobile space, except for accessible parking spaces, or as near a regularly
used building entrance as possible without interfering with pedestrian traffic.
   C.   Bicycle parking areas shall provide a minimum clearance between parked
bicycles and adjacent walls, poles, landscaping, and pedestrian walkways of at
least three feet (3'), and a minimum clearance between parked bicycles and
vehicle parking spaces and drive aisles of at least five feet (5'). (Ord. 52-
09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 60-10, 11-15-2010; Ord. 2-23, 1-17-2023)
16-13-3-6-2: PARKING LOT LIGHTING:
The location and design of parking lot lighting shall conform to the following:
   A.   All surface parking lot lighting shall be designed, installed and
maintained so that no light sources shall provide illumination onto adjacent
lots, buildings or streets in excess of one foot-candle;
   B.   All exterior lighting luminaries shall be designed and installed to
shield light from the luminaire at angles above seventy two degrees (72°) from
vertical;
   C.   Fixtures mounted on a building shall not be positioned higher than the
roofline of the building;
   D.   Wooden utility type poles are acceptable only for temporary use during
construction; and
   E.   All electrical service lines to posts and fixtures shall be installed
underground and concealed inside the posts. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord.
2-23, 1-17-2023)
16-13-3-6-3: STANDARD PARKING SPACE DIMENSIONS:
   A.   The standard size parking stall should be at least nine feet (9') wide
and eighteen feet (18') long.
STANDARD SIZE CAR REQUIREMENTS (AASHTO STANDARD)
 
Degree Of Stall Width Curb Length Stall Depth Stall      Aisle Width Island
Angle     (A)         (B)         (C)         Length (D) One-Way/    Width (F)
                                                         Two-Way (E)
0°       8.5'        23'         n/a         n/a        13'/24'     n/a
45°      9'          12.7'       19.8'       19'        13'/13'     33.2'
60°      9'          10.4'       21'         19'        18'/18'     37.4'
90°      9'          9'          18'         18'        24'/24'     36'
 
   B.   If parking stalls for compact cars are allowed, the stall dimensions
should be at least seven feet six inches (7'6") wide and sixteen feet (16')
long.
STANDARD COMPACT CAR REQUIREMENTS
 
Degree Of Stall Width Curb Length Stall Depth Stall      Aisle Width Island
Angle     (A)         (B)         (C)         Length (D) One-Way/    Width (F)
                                                         Two-Way (E)
0°       7.5'        16'         n/a         n/a        13'/24'     n/a
45°      8'          11.3'       17'         16'        13'/13'     28.3'
60°      8'          9.2'        17.8'       16'        18'/18'     31.7'
90°      8'          8'          16'         16'        24'/24'     32'
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2-23, 1-17-2023)
16-13-3-7: SIDEWALKS AND WALKWAYS:
   A.   Continuous sidewalks a minimum of four feet (4') wide shall be provided
in compliance with section
10-1-2 of this code.
   B.   Clearly defined and lighted pedestrian walkways shall extend between
parking areas and all building entrances.
   C.   All sidewalks and walkways shall meet the ADA standards for
accessibility. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 18-13, 3-18-2013; Ord. 2-23,
1-17-2023)
16-13-4: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING REQUIREMENTS:
16-13-4-1: INTENT:
The landscaping and screening requirements of this section
16-13-4 are intended to promote attractive and harmonious growth of the city.
Landscaping is a fundamental component of property development. These
provisions are intended to preserve and enhance property values by ensuring
that yards, open spaces, parking lots and public rights of way are designed and
maintained with respect to plants and landscape materials. This section
16-13-4 also intends that property development should respect land capability
and constraints, minimize erosion and destruction of natural amenities and
reduce conflicts between lands and uses. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-13-4-2: APPLICATION AND SCOPE:
No new structure, building or parking lot shall be constructed unless in
compliance with the landscape and screening standards of this section
16-13-4. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-13-4-3: LANDSCAPE AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Single-family and two-family dwellings shall maintain a minimum of
twenty percent (20%) of lot area as a permeable and uncovered surface that
contains living material. Single-family and two-family dwellings shall be
exempt from other requirements of this section
16-13-4.
   B.   All other uses shall provide and maintain a landscaped area that equals
or exceeds the requirements of this section
16-13-4. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-13-4-4: SITE LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Major site plans shall include a landscaping plan indicating how
existing topography, natural features, and vegetation will be integrated into
the overall site development. A conceptual landscape plan shall be submitted
and approved prior to final site plan approval. A detailed landscape plan shall
be submitted and approved prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
All landscape plans shall be prepared to show the information required by the
planning services department.
   B.   Street trees planted in the public right of way shall not be counted
toward fulfillment of the minimum site requirements for number of trees.
   C.   Existing trees to be retained on site may be counted toward fulfillment
of the landscaping requirements.
   D.   Parking lot landscaping requirement in section
16-13-4-6 of this chapter shall not be counted toward fulfillment of the
minimum site landscaping.
   E.   The minimum required permeable area shall be twenty percent (20%) of
the entire site under review.
   F.   The following is the minimum landscaping requirement of trees and
shrubs, by number, and the type of ground cover required for the entire site
under review. Plant species used for landscaping shall be in accordance with
street tree and plant lists approved by the city.
      1.   Minimum tree planting requirements shall be one tree per one
thousand six hundred (1,600) square feet of required permeable area. Minimum
tree size shall be at least one and one-half inch (11/2") caliper measured six
inches (6") from the base of the tree for a deciduous tree and six feet (6') in
height for a coniferous tree.
      2.   Minimum shrub requirements at the time of planting shall be six (6)
shrubs, or one shrub per one thousand (1,000) square feet of required permeable
area, whichever is greater. Shrubs shall be a minimum of eighteen inches (18")
in height or a minimum of three (3) gallon potted. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-13-4-5: PRESERVATION OF EXISTING TREES:
   A.   Existing trees, when located appropriately, may be used to comply with
the requirements for buffer yards, street trees, and to meet the tree
requirements for parking areas. Existing trees used to satisfy these
requirements shall be in good health prior to and following site development.
   B.   The same minimum separation distances that are required of new
plantings must be observed when possible; except, that existing groupings of
two (2) or more trees may be preserved. Trees or branches must be removed from
such groupings in the interest of public safety and/or to assure survival of
the specimen.
   C.   The roots of a tree must be protected during site development with
barrier fencing extending at least as far as the drip line of the tree. Any
limbs that might be damaged during construction must be pruned.
   D.   No paving or construction shall be allowed within the drip line of a
preserved tree.
   E.   Any preserved tree that dies shall be replaced by the same number of
trees for which it substituted during the same or immediately following
planting season.
   F.   The schedule below shows the acceptable substitution ratio for existing
trees to required trees:
 
Diameter Of Existing Tree Substitution Ratio
   36 inches or more      3 required trees
   12 to 36 inches        2 required trees
   2 to 12 inches         1 required tree
 
The substitution value for groupings of trees approved by the city shall be
based upon the diameter of the largest tree in the group.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-13-4-6: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING:
   A.   A landscaped buffer strip shall be provided along the frontage of all
surface parking areas at least ten feet (10') wide along the public right of
way. The buffer strip shall consist of shade trees, low shrubs, perennial
flowers, and/or other plant materials approved by the city planner. Landscaped
earth berms and/or decorative walls and fences are permitted provided they are
integrated with the landscape screening described above. The use of
biofiltration methods of landscape and drainage design is encouraged.
   B.   A landscape buffer at least seven feet (7') wide shall be provided
along the remaining sides of all surface parking lots. This area shall be
planted with any combination of shade trees, coniferous trees, and/or shrubs.
   C.   Parking lot landscaping and trees shall be dispersed throughout the
parking lot in accordance with subsection
16-13-3-5D of this chapter.
      1.   For single parking bays, landscaped islands shall provide at least
one parking space of landscape area, measuring at least nine feet by eighteen
feet (9' x 18'), and shall be planted with a combination of one tree, low
shrubs, perennial flowers, turf, and/or ground cover/ornamental grasses but
shall not be planted entirely with turf.
      2.   For double parking bays, both the end landscaped islands and the
intermediate landscaped islands shall provide a double parking space of
landscape area, measuring at least nine feet by thirty six feet (9' x 36'), and
shall be planted with a combination of one shade tree or two (2) ornamental/
dwarf trees, low shrubs, perennial flowers, turf, and/or ground cover/
ornamental grasses measuring no more than three feet (3') in height, but shall
not be planted entirely with turf.
   D.   No tree, shrub, hedge, or berm shall be placed or encroach into an area
the city engineer determines is an obstruction to visibility, or extends into a
visibility triangle affecting the public right of way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4308.gif]
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-13-4-7: STREET TREES:
   A.   Street trees shall be planted within a landscaped parkway or in tree
pits within the sidewalk area according to section
6-8-1 of this code and the "City Of Dubuque Street Tree And Landscaping On
Public Right Of Way Policy".
   B.   Street trees planted within the sidewalk area shall be planted using
best management practices. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-13-4-8: SCREENING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All commercial and industrial uses that abut residential, office, or
institutional districts, shall maintain screening not less than six feet (6')
along the abutting property line or lines.
   B.   Screening required by this section
16-13-4 shall be equivalent to the following:
      1.   Fences with at least fifty percent (50%) opaque construction; or
      2.   Hedges, shrubs or evergreen trees of at least thirty percent (30%)
opacity at the time of installation and fifty percent (50%) opacity maintained
within three (3) years of installation; or
      3.   Berms or graded slopes of not less than three feet (3') of mean
height. Such berms or graded slopes shall contain at least fifty percent (50%)
living material. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-13-4-9: EXTERIOR TRASH COLLECTION AREAS:
   A.   Exterior trash collection areas shall include collection bins,
dumpsters, and similar waste receptacles for the short term storage and
collection of trash. Trash shall include garbage, scrap, recyclables, debris
and similar materials.
   B.   The storage of trash shall be limited to that produced by the principal
permitted use and accessory uses of the lot. Exterior storage of trash, which
could be blown into the air or strewn about by the wind, shall be prohibited.
   C.   The ground area coverage of the exterior trash collection areas shall
be the area contained inside the required screening.
   D.   Exterior trash collection areas shall be located in rear or side yards
only. Exterior trash collection areas shall not encroach into a front yard. The
city planner may grant a waiver to this requirement when, due to topographic
conditions or lack of a side or rear yard, conformance with this requirement is
impractical.
   E.   All exterior trash collection areas and the materials contained therein
shall be screened from view from the adjacent public right of way.
   F.   The screening shall be a completely opaque fence, wall or other feature
of a height between six (6) and ten feet (10') measured from the ground level
outside the line of the screen. Screens built on sloping grades shall be
stepped so that their top line shall be horizontal. If a ten foot (10') high
screen fails to shield the exterior trash collection area from view of the
adjacent public right of way, evergreen plantings may be required in addition
to the screening. Evergreen plant materials shall be selected and designed so
that they will screen the area from the adjacent public right of way within
five (5) years.
   G.   Exposed materials used to construct the opaque screen shall be similar
in appearance to materials used for exterior building walls. All exterior
entrances to a screened trash area shall be provided with a gate or door of
similar design to that of the screen. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-13-4-10: EXTERIOR STORAGE IN NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
Screening for exterior storage is intended to buffer surrounding property from
the negative visual impact created by the storage of raw or finished goods,
materials and equipment that can adversely impact the value of adjacent
property. Exterior storage areas shall conform to the following:
   A.   Exterior storage of materials which could be blown into the air or
strewn about by the wind shall be prohibited.
   B.   Exterior storage, where allowed, shall be screened from view from the
adjacent public right of way and abutting residential districts or uses to a
minimum height of six feet (6').
   C.   The screening height shall be measured from the ground level outside
the line of the screening. Screens built on sloping grades shall be stepped so
that their top line shall be horizontal.
   D.   Exterior storage shall not encroach to a front yard.
   E.   All exterior entrances to a screened storage area shall be provided
with a gate or door of similar design to that of the screen.
   F.   The city planner may grant a waiver to allow screening to exceed the
maximum height allowed when topography or height of individual finished
products or equipment could make it impossible to completely screen a storage
area from every vantage point. The city planner may not grant waivers to the
maximum screening height for raw materials or stacked goods.
   G.   Long term storage of products or materials in semitrailers or shipping
containers is permitted only in accordance with title 14, chapter 8 of this
code, as amended. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-13-4-11: INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT OF LANDSCAPING AND
SCREENING:
   A.   Plantings shall be installed prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy unless seasonal conditions exist that may reduce the survivability of
the plantings, in which case the plantings shall be installed within six (6)
months of the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   B.   Plantings shall be properly maintained in a healthy manner. Plantings
that become diseased or die shall be replaced with similar plant materials.
Replacement plantings shall be installed during the same or immediately
following planting season.
   C.   All required screening and fencing shall be maintained and, whenever
necessary, replaced in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-13-5: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR BIG BOX RETAIL USES:
As part of planned unit development review in accordance with section
16-5-24 of this title for any retail commercial uses or regional shopping
centers which have over one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of building
area, the applicant shall submit building elevations for review by the city.
Any structure existing at the time of adoption of this title which is expanded
for retail commercial use to over one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of
building area and which expansion constitutes an increase of twenty five
percent (25%) or more to the building area shall be subject to these design
standards.
In addition to the site design standards set forth herein, big box retail uses
shall comply with the following standards:
   A.   Definitions Of Facades: For purposes of this section, the facades of a
building shall be defined as follows:
      FACADE: The portion of any exterior elevation on the building extending
from grade to the top of the parapet, wall or eaves and extending the entire
length of the building.
      FRONT FACADE: The front or principal face of a building, containing the
main entrance; any building face, which can be touched by a line drawn
perpendicular to street (public or private).
      REAR FACADE: The face of a building extending along the rear of the lot
or site, containing employee and service entrances, loading docks, etc.
      SIDE FACADE: The face of a building extending from the front facade to
the rear facade of the building.
   B.   Facade Design: The building facades shall be designed in a way that
will reduce the massive scale and minimize a uniform and impersonal appearance
of the building, and that will provide visual interest consistent with the
community's identity, character, and scale.
      1.   Facades of one hundred feet (100') or longer shall be broken up with
projections or recessions not less than five feet (5') in depth, and in
sufficient number, to reduce the unbroken massing into lengths of forty feet
(40') or less along all sides of the building. Projections from the facade can
be used as an alternate approach.
      2.   The front facade shall include windows, arcades, awnings, projecting
canopies, covered walkways, porticoes, or other acceptable features along at
least sixty percent (60%) of the front facade length and over at least twenty
five percent (25%) of the front facade area.
      3.   Except for entrances to the building, any part of the front facade
higher than eleven feet (11') shall give the visual exterior appearance of
having more than one floor for each additional eleven feet (11') in height,
i.e., a twenty two foot (22') high building shall give the appearance of a two-
story building.
      4.   Arcades and other weather protection features shall be of sufficient
depth and height to provide a light filled and open space along the front
facade. Architectural treatment, similar to that provided to the front facade,
shall be provided to the side facades to mitigate any negative view from any
location off site and any public area (e.g., parking lots, walkways, etc.) on
site.
      5.   A landscape buffer of evergreens approved by the city council shall
be required along the property line to screen service areas and rear facades
from the adjacent property.
   C.   Detail Features: The building shall include architectural features that
contribute to visual interest at the pedestrian scale and reduce the massive
aesthetic effect by breaking up the building wall, front, and side, with color,
texture change, wall offsets, reveals, or projecting ribs.
   D.   Roofs: The roof design shall provide variations in rooflines, add
interest to, and reduce the massive scale of, large buildings. Roofs shall
include two (2) or more roof planes. Parapet walls shall be architecturally
treated to avoid a plain, monotonous look.
   E.   Maximum Parking:
      1.   The maximum number of off street parking spaces allowed shall be
equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the required minimum number
of spaces.
      2.   Parking spaces in excess of the maximum number permitted may be
allowed, provided:
         a.   Each parking space provided in excess of the maximum number
allowed shall be paved with a permeable paving material approved by the city;
or
         b.   For each parking space provided in excess of the maximum number
allowed, three hundred (300) square feet of additional on site green space
shall be provided and maintained with landscaping; or
         c.   For each parking space provided in excess of the maximum number
allowed, three hundred (300) square feet of green roof shall be provided and
maintained. A "green roof" is herein defined as a roof of a building that is
covered with vegetation and soil, or a growing medium, planted over a
waterproofing membrane. It may also include additional layers such as a root
barrier and drainage and irrigation systems. Unhealthy or dead vegetation shall
be removed within seven (7) days and replaced with suitable new plant materials
at the earliest practical time, but not longer than nine (9) months, based on
the appropriate season.
   F.   Materials And Color: The building shall have exterior building
materials and colors that are aesthetically pleasing and compatible with
materials and colors that are used in adjoining neighborhoods. This includes
the use of high quality materials and colors that are low reflective, subtle,
neutral, or earth tone. Certain types of colors shall be avoided such as
fluorescent or metallic although brighter colors in limited quantities may be
used on building trim and as accents at the discretion of the city council.
Construction materials such as tilt-up concrete, smooth faced concrete block,
prefabricated steel panels, and other similar materials shall be avoided unless
the exterior surface incorporates an acceptable architectural treatment. Not
less than seventy five percent (75%) of the front of the building and fifty
percent (50%) of the sides of the building shall be brick or stone.
   G.   Entryways: The building design shall provide design elements which
clearly indicate to customers where the entrances are located and which add
aesthetically pleasing character to buildings by providing highly visible
customer entrances.
   H.   Amenities: The building site shall include at least one public
gathering space, such as a patio seating area, pedestrian plaza with benches,
outdoor play area, and not less than two (2) public space amenities, such as
kiosks, a water feature, a clock tower, or a landscaped site for public
artwork. Pedestrian public space shall be shaded, landscaped, and screened. The
size of the public gathering space shall not be less than one percent (1%) of
the gross enclosed building area.
   I.   Conflict; Stricter Standards Apply: Any conflict between these
standards and the PUD ordinance shall be resolved in favor of the stricter
standard.
   J.   Alternative Or Substitute Features: In determining whether the plan
complies with the above standards, the city council may accept alternative or
substitute features which have a comparable aesthetic and visual effect in
light of the location and topography of a particular site. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009)
16-13-6: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR RETAIL COMMERCIAL USES AND REGIONAL SHOPPING
CENTERS:
In addition to the site design standards set forth herein, the following
standards shall apply to retail commercial uses over sixty thousand (60,000)
square feet of building area and to regional shopping centers:
   A.   Sales And Display Areas: No area outside of the building other than the
front facade may be used for the sales or display of merchandise unless a
temporary use permit has been obtained from the city.
   B.   Sidewalks, Walkways, Entrances And Gathering Areas: Sidewalks adjacent
to the front facade shall be not less than ten feet (10') wide and shall
connect by sidewalks not less than five feet (5') wide to public sidewalks and
adjoining retail buildings. Sidewalks shall be concrete or other approved hard
surface; asphalt shall be prohibited. Walkways, entrances, and gathering areas
shall have shade features other than landscaping, such as trellis structures,
projecting canopies, covered arcades and porticoes.
   C.   Transit Facilities: The building site shall include a bus and
paratransit stop/transfer point at a location adjacent to the building approved
by the city manager. A shelter that is consistent in design and construction
with the building shall be installed at the property owner's expense at the
sole discretion of the city manager. It shall be within the sole discretion of
the city manager whether it is used as a bus and paratransit stop and/or
transfer point and at what time it shall be used. An easement or other
arrangement acceptable to the city shall be granted for location, maintenance,
and unrestricted use of said transit facilities by the city transit system.
These facilities may be installed at any point in time at the sole discretion
of the city manager.
   D.   Bicycle Paths And Parking: The building site shall include bicycle
paths connected to the city's planned and existing bike trail system.
Flexibility in the timing of construction of said bicycle paths may be allowed
at the sole discretion of the city manager. Unless the paths are exclusively
for bicycle use, they shall be appropriately marked with painted lanes. The
building site shall include sheltered bicycle areas with rack(s) for securing
bicycles located near the entrance to the building.
   E.   Maximum Parking:
      1.   The maximum number of off street parking spaces allowed shall be
equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the required minimum number
of spaces.
      2.   Parking spaces in excess of the maximum number permitted may be
allowed, provided:
         a.   Each parking space provided in excess of the maximum number
allowed shall be paved with a permeable paving material approved by the city;
or
         b.   For each parking space provided in excess of the maximum number
allowed, three hundred (300) square feet of additional on site green space
shall be provided and maintained with landscaping. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-13-7: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR BIOFUELS PRODUCTION FACILITIES:
Prior to the commencement of construction of any biofuels (including, but not
limited to, ethanol and biodiesel) production facility, the applicant shall
submit plans for construction for review by the city council. The applicant
shall not commence any such construction unless the city council determines
that the plan complies with the following standards intended to protect the
health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of Dubuque:
   A.   A traffic impact analysis shall be provided by the applicant.
   B.   Access to the facility shall be paved.
   C.   The applicant shall provide documentation sufficient to demonstrate
that the paving of public right of way between the facility and designated
truck route(s) is sufficient to carry, without damage to the roadway, the
weight, size and frequency of the loads of grain and liquid and any byproduct
entering or leaving the facility by truck.
   D.   If the public right of way is not capable of carrying the weight, size
and frequency of said loads, then the applicant may be required to make
upgrades to the paving in order for the pavement to handle the weight, size and
frequency of said loads.
   E.   The applicant shall acquire sufficient right of way and construct all
turning lanes and traffic signals necessary to handle the increase in truck
traffic.
   F.   The applicant shall attest in writing that the facility shall be
operated and maintained in compliance with all applicable federal and state
environmental standards and regulations.
   G.   The applicant shall provide a dimensioned map that indicates the
dispersal of steam, smoke, or other discharge from the facility based on the
prevailing winds, and describe what air pollution control equipment will be
provided. Biomass and natural gas fired facilities are preferred to coal fired
facilities.
   H.   The applicant shall provide a dimensioned site lighting plan indicating
proposed illumination patterns and light levels on the facility site and in the
environs surrounding the site. Illumination of parking and other on site
facilities shall be controlled by cutoff style luminaries that reduce off site
spillover of light. Illumination at the property line shall not exceed
approximately one foot-candle.
   I.   All fuel storage tanks shall be located in a manner that will not allow
for contamination of any groundwater or surface water.
   J.   All fuel storage tanks shall be within an impermeable containment levee
system, in a manner compliant with all federal, state, and local rules and
regulations. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 14
PARKING
SECTION:
16-14-1: Parking Required
16-14-2: Site Plan Required
16-14-3: Parking Space Calculations
16-14-4: Location Of Parking Spaces
16-14-5: Off Street Parking And Storage Of Vehicles In Residential Districts
16-14-6: Off Street Parking Requirements
16-14-7: Accessible Parking Space Requirements
16-14-8: Nonconforming Parking Lots
16-14-9: Bicycle Parking Required
16-14-10: Shared Parking Reduction
16-14-1: PARKING REQUIRED:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to uses within all zoning districts
of the city. No such use shall be commenced, expanded or enlarged in any manner
unless the off street parking and loading provisions of this chapter are met.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-14-2: SITE PLAN REQUIRED:
A site plan shall be required for the construction or creation of any parking
lot or the expansion of any existing parking lot in accordance with the site
plan provisions of chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-14-3: PARKING SPACE CALCULATIONS:
The following provisions shall govern the computation of required off street
parking spaces:
   A.   Where computation of required off street parking spaces results in a
fractional number, the required spaces for the use shall be the next higher
whole number.
   B.   Where more than one use is established on a single lot, the off street
parking requirements for the lot shall be the sum of the separate requirements
for each use established on the lot. A proposal for shared parking may be made
in conformance with section
16-14-10 of this chapter.
   C.   Where a lawful use exists at the time of adoption of this title that is
deficient in the provision of required off street parking, any new use
hereafter established in its place shall conform to the parking requirements of
this title. However, in computing the off street parking requirements for any
new use, such new use shall be credited for the number of off street parking
spaces that the previous use was in deficit.
   D.   No structure(s) containing lawful uses existing at the time of adoption
of this title shall hereafter be expanded by twenty five percent (25%) or more
of the building area existing at the time of adoption of this title, unless
parking spaces are provided in full so as to bring the entire expanded use into
conformity with this section. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-14-4: LOCATION OF PARKING SPACES:
All off street parking spaces required by this title shall be located on the
same zoning lot as the use for which such spaces are required, except that:
   A.   Within an office, commercial, or industrial district, when an increase
in the number of off street parking spaces is required by an alteration,
enlargement, or change of a use, the required off street parking spaces may be
located off site, provided they are not located farther than three hundred feet
(300') from the use served.
   B.   Within an ID institutional district, parking spaces may be located on a
separate lot within the ID district boundaries, unless further restricted by
the ordinance establishing the district.
   C.   Payment in lieu of parking. Reserved for future use. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009)
16-14-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND STORAGE OF VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Statement Of Intent: The intent of this section is to avoid the
obstruction of public streets and sidewalks, improve traffic visibility, ensure
the provision of necessary light and air to residential dwellings, and maintain
the visual harmony and character appropriate in residential neighborhoods
within the city.
   B.   Accessory Use: The provisions of this section shall govern the off
street parking and storage of vehicles as an accessory use within any R-1, R-2,
R-2A, R-3, R-4, or OR residential district, or for property principally used as
a residence. Accessory off street parking or storage of vehicles within any
such district shall be permitted only in conformance with these provisions.
   C.   Definitions: The following definitions shall govern the interpretation
of this section:
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any vehicle:
      1.   That does not display current state registration.
      2.   With a missing window, windshield, headlight, or any other missing
glass.
      3.   With a broken, loose, or missing fender, door, wheel, bumper, hood,
roof, steering wheel, trunk lid, muffler or tailpipe.
      4.   That is the habitat of rats, mice, snakes or any other vermin or
insects.
      5.   That lacks an engine, one or more wheels or other structural part
that renders the vehicle inoperable, such as a truck without an engine or a
trailer missing a wheel.
      6.   That is not capable of moving in both forward and reverse gears.
   PARKING: The placement on a residential lot of a vehicle for any
substantially uninterrupted period of time not exceeding forty eight (48)
hours.
   STORAGE: The substantially uninterrupted placement on a residential lot of
any vehicle for any consecutive period of time exceeding forty eight (48)
hours.
   VEHICLE: Any implement of conveyance designed or used for the transportation
of people or materials on land, water or air, including, but not limited to,
automobiles, trucks, motorized bicycles, motorcycles, snowmobiles, boats,
airplanes, helicopters, trailers, campers, tractors, equipment, etc.
   D.   Standards Governing Off Street Parking Or Storage Of Vehicles As
Accessory Use In Residential Districts:
      1.   Maximum Number Of Vehicles Allowed To Be Stored: Not more than one
vehicle may be stored outside a fully enclosed structure anywhere on a
residential lot.
      2.   Front Yard Storage Prohibited: No vehicle may be stored in the front
yard of a residential dwelling under any circumstances. Front yard parking of
vehicles may be permitted in conformance with the other standards of this
section.
      3.   Rear Yard Storage Required If Accessible: A vehicle shall be stored
only in a rear yard, where a rear yard exists. Where no rear yard exists, or
where the city planner determines that an existing rear yard is not reasonably
accessible, a vehicle may be stored in a side yard. A vehicle may not be stored
within a required side yard.
      4.   Current State Registration Required For All Vehicles Stored: No
vehicle may be stored as an accessory use on a residential lot unless such
vehicle displays a current state certificate of motor vehicle registration.
      5.   Storage In Required Parking Spaces For Multiple-Family Dwellings
Prohibited: No vehicle storage shall be permitted in required parking spaces
for a multiple-family dwelling. Off street vehicle storage space may be
provided for a multiple- family dwelling, if a site plan for such space is
approved in accordance with chapter 12 of this title.
      6.   Front Yard Setback For Garages Required: In zoning districts
requiring less than twenty foot (20') front yard setbacks, where a garage opens
onto or faces the street, a minimum setback of twenty feet (20') shall be
required.
      7.   Paved Parking And Storage Areas: All vehicles shall be parked and
stored on a hard surface driveway or pad paved as defined in chapter 2 of this
title. The paved area shall be at least the same size as the outside dimensions
of the vehicle.
      8.   Storage Of Inoperable Vehicles Prohibited: No inoperable vehicle,
vehicle parts or camper toppers may be stored outside a fully enclosed
structure anywhere on a residential lot.
      9.   Storage On Vacant Lot: No vehicle or vehicle parts shall be stored
on any vacant lot in a residential district. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-14-6: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum numbers of required off street parking spaces for this title are
shown in the following table:
Land Use Off Street Parking Spaces Required
Land Use                                        Off Street Parking Spaces Required
Agricultural supply sales                       1 space for each 250 square feet of floor area
                                                accessible to the general public
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 space for
Animal hospital or clinic                       each 100 square feet of gross floor area accessible
                                                to the general public
Appliance sales or service                      1 per 400 square feet of gross floor area accessible
                                                to the public
Art gallery, museum or library                  1 per 500 square feet of gross floor area accessible
                                                to the public
Artist studio                                   1 per tenant
Athletic field, stadium or sports arena         1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per 4 seats
                                                1 per 4 seats, plus 1 per employee on maximum shift,
Auditorium or assembly hall                     plus 1 per 100 square feet of gross floor area for
                                                assembly
Auto supply sales                               1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area accessible
                                                to the public
Automated gas station                           2 spaces for each employee on maximum shift
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per 250
Bakery (retail only)                            square feet of gross floor area accessible to the
                                                public
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per 250
Bakery (wholesale or commercial)                square feet of gross floor area accessible to the
                                                public
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per 250
Bank, savings and loan or credit union          square feet of gross floor area accessible to the
                                                public
                                                1 per 4 seats, plus 1 per employee on maximum shift,
Bar or tavern                                   plus 1 per 100 square feet of gross floor area for
                                                assembly
Barbershop or beauty shop                       3 per employee on maximum shift
Bed and breakfast home                          1 per guestroom
Bed and breakfast inn                           1 per guestroom
Bowling alley                                   1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 4 per lane
Business/secretarial school:                     
   Dormitories                               1 space for each bed
   Employees                                 0.75 space for each employee on the maximum shift
   Gymnasiums                                1 space for each 6 permanent seats
   Lecture halls                             1 space for each 6 permanent seats
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per service
Business services                               vehicle, plus 1 per 250 square feet of gross floor
                                                area accessible to the public
Campground or recreational vehicle park         As determined by the city planner
operation
Car wash                                        1 per employee on maximum shift
                                                1 space for each employee on maximum shift, plus 1
Catalog center                                  space for each 100 square feet of floor area
                                                accessible to the general public
Cemetery, mausoleum, columbarium                As determined by the city planner
Cold storage or locker plant                    1.5 per employee on maximum shift
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per service
Commercial greenhouse                           vehicle, plus 1 per 250 square feet GFA accessible
                                                to the public
                                                1 space for each employee on maximum shift, plus 1
Construction supply sales or service            space for each 250 square feet of floor area
                                                accessible to the general public
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per service
Contractor shop or yard                         vehicle, plus 1 per 250 square feet of gross floor
                                                area accessible to the public
Convenience store                               2 per employee on maximum shift
Convention center                               1 per 5 seats
Crematorium, reduction plant, foundry, forge or 1.5 per employee on maximum shift
smelter
Dental or medical lab                           1 per employee on maximum shift
Department store (60,000 square feet maximum)   1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area accessible
                                                to the public
Dog and horse racing or track operation:         
   Dog track                                 1 space for each 4 permanent seats, plus 1 space for
                                                each employee on maximum shift
   Horse track                               1 space for each 400 square feet of floor area
                                                accessible to the general public
                                                1 space for each employee on maximum shift, plus 1
Farm implement sales or service                 space for each 4,000 square feet of outdoor display
                                                area, plus 2 spaces for each service bay
Flower, garden, nursery or greenhouse           1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area accessible
                                                to the public
Flower or garden store                          1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area accessible
                                                to the public
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per service
Freight transfer facility                       vehicle, plus 1 per 250 square feet of gross floor
                                                area accessible to the public
Fuel or ice dealer                              1 space per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per
                                                company vehicle
Furniture or home furnishing sales              1 space for each 400 square feet of floor area
                                                accessible to the general public
Furniture upholstery or repair                  2 spaces for each employee on maximum shift
Gambling facility licensed by the state         As determined by the city planner
Gas station                                     2 per employee on maximum shift
Gas station (not including service station)     2 per employee on maximum shift
General office                                  1 per 400 square feet of office floor area, or 1 per
                                                employee on maximum shift, whichever is greater
Golf course                                     50 per 9 holes
Golf driving range                              1 per 2 tees
Grain or barge terminal                         1 space per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per
                                                company vehicle
Grocery or drug store (3,500 square feet        1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area accessible
maximum)                                        to the public
Grocery store                                   1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area accessible
                                                to the public
Group home                                      0.33 per tenant
Health, sports, recreation or athletic club or  1 per 100 square feet of gross floor area
organization
Hospice                                         1.5 per bed
Hotel                                           1 per room, plus 1 per employee on maximum shift
Housing for the elderly or persons with         0.5 space for each dwelling unit
disabilities
                                                1 space for each employee on maximum shift, plus 1
Indoor amusement arcade                         space for each 100 square feet of floor area
                                                accessible to the general public
Indoor recreation facility:                      
   Bowling alley                             4 spaces for each lane
   Excursion craft operation and service     1 space for each 4 permanent seats on the craft,
                                                plus 1 space for each employee on the maximum shift
   Golf course                               50 spaces for each 9 holes
   Gymnasium (with no seating provided)      1 space for each 100 square feet of athletic floor
                                                area
   Miniature golf                            15 spaces for each 9 holes
   Pleasure craft harbor                     1.5 spaces for each docking slip
                                                1 per employee on the maximum shift, plus 1 space
   Pool hall/billiard parlor                 for each 100 square feet of area accessible to the
                                                general public
   Shooting/archery range                    1 space for each firing point, plus 1 space for each
                                                employee on the maximum shift
   Swimming pool                             1 space for each 30 square feet of gross pool area
    Tennis/handball/racquetball courts      3 spaces for each court
    Weight training/exercise room           1 space for each 100 square feet of floor area
                                                devoted to such use
Indoor theater                                  1 space for each 6 permanent seats, plus 1 space for
                                                each employee on maximum shift
Junkyard or salvage yard                        1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per company
                                                vehicle
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per 100
Kennel                                          square feet of gross floor area accessible to the
                                                public
Laboratory for research or engineering          1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per company
                                                vehicle
Landfill                                        1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per company
                                                vehicle
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 space for
Landscaping services (not including retail      each service vehicle, plus 1 space for each 250
sales as primary use)                           square feet of floor area accessible to the general
                                                public
Laundromat                                      1 space per 4 washing machines
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per 250
Laundry or dry cleaner                          square feet of gross floor area accessible to the
                                                public
Licensed adult daycare                          1 per employee on maximum shift
Licensed childcare center                       1 per employee on maximum shift
                                                1 space for each employee on maximum shift, plus 1
Lumberyards or building material sales          space for each 250 square feet of floor area
                                                accessible to the general public
                                                1 space for each employee on maximum shift, plus 1
Mail order house                                space for each 100 square feet of floor area
                                                accessible to the general public
Manufacturing, primary                          1 space per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per
                                                company vehicle
Manufacturing, secondary                        1 space per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per
                                                company vehicle
Marine vehicle body shop                        1 per employee on largest shift, plus 3 per service
                                                bay
                                                1 per employee on largest shift, plus 1 per 500
Marine vehicle sales or rental                  square feet of gross floor area of indoor display
                                                area, plus 1 per 2,000 square feet of gross floor
                                                area of outdoor display area, plus 2 per service bay
Marine vehicle service or repair                1 per employee on largest shift, plus 3 per service
                                                bay
Medical office or clinic                        1 per employee, not including doctors, on maximum
                                                shift, plus 3.5 per doctor
Miniature golf                                  15 per 9 holes
Miniwarehousing                                 As determined by the city planner
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per 500
Mobile or manufactured home sales or service    square feet of gross floor area of indoor display
                                                area, plus 1 per 5,000 square feet of gross floor
                                                area of outdoor display area
Mortuary or funeral home                        1 per 50 square feet viewing area, plus 1 per
                                                employee on maximum shift
Multiple-family dwelling                        1.5 per unit
Multiple-family dwelling (3 to 12 units)        1.5 per unit
Multiple-family dwelling (maximum 6 units)      1.5 per unit
Multiple-family dwelling (more than 12 units)   1.5 per unit
Museum or library                               1 space for each 500 square feet of floor area
                                                accessible to the general public
Neighborhood shopping center                    1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area accessible
                                                to the public
Nursing or convalescent home                    0.25 per bed, plus 1 per employee on maximum shift
Nursing or convalescent home for institutional  0.25 per bed, plus 1 per employee on maximum shift
residents or affiliates
                                                1 space for each employee on maximum shift, plus 1
Office supply                                   space for each 250 square feet of floor area
                                                accessible to the general public
Offices for administrative personnel or other   1 per 4,500 square feet office floor area, or 1 per
institutional employees or affiliates           employee on largest shift, whichever is greater
Outdoor recreation or outdoor amusement center:  
   Bowling alley                             4 spaces for each lane
   Excursion craft operation and service     1 space for each 4 permanent seats on the craft,
                                                plus 1 space for each employee on the maximum shift
   Golf course                               50 spaces for each 9 holes
   Gymnasium (with no seating provided)      1 space for each 100 square feet of athletic floor
                                                area
   Miniature golf                            15 spaces for each 9 holes
   Pleasure craft harbor                     1.5 spaces for each docking slip
   Shooting/archery range                    1 space for each firing point, plus 1 space for each
                                                employee on the maximum shift
   Swimming pool                             1 space for each 30 square feet of gross pool area
   Tennis/handball/racquetball courts        3 spaces for each court
   Weight training/exercise room             1 space for each 100 square feet of floor area
                                                devoted to such use
Outpatient care facility                        1 per employee, not including doctors, on maximum
                                                shift, plus 3.5 per doctor
Parks, public or private, and similar natural   As determined by the city planner
recreation areas
                                                1 space per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 space
Passenger transfer facility                     for each 250 square feet of floor area accessible to
                                                the general public
                                                1 space for each 400 square feet devoted to office
Personnel services                              use, or 1 space for each employee on maximum shift,
                                                whichever is greater
Pet daycare                                     1 per employee on maximum shift
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per 100
Photographic studio                             square feet of gross floor area accessible to the
                                                public
Place of religious exercise or religious        1 per 4 seats
assembly
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per 250
Printing or publishing                          square feet of gross floor area accessible to the
                                                public, plus 1 per 400 square feet of gross floor
                                                area of general office space
                                                1 per 4 seats, plus 1 per employee on maximum shift,
Private club                                    plus 1 per 100 square feet of gross floor area for
                                                assembly
Processing or assembly                          1 space per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per
                                                company vehicle
Processing, packaging, or storing meat, dairy   1 space per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per
or food products                                company vehicle
Processing, packaging, or storing meat, dairy   1 space per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per
or food products, but not including             company vehicle
slaughterhouse or stockyard
Public or private/parochial schools approved by 1.5 spaces per employee on maximum shift for grades
state board of public instruction (K – 12)    K – 12, plus 1 per 10 students for grades 9 – 12
Recreational or athletic facility for the
primary use and benefit of institutional         
residents and affiliates:
   Dormitories                               1 space for each bed
   Employees                                 0.75 space for each employee on the maximum shift
   Gymnasiums                                1 space for each 6 permanent seats
   Lecture halls                             1 space for each 6 permanent seats
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per 250
Refrigeration equipment sales or services       square feet of gross floor area accessible to the
                                                public
Regional shopping center                        1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area accessible
                                                to the public
Residential care facility                       2 spaces for each employee on maximum shift
Residential uses above first floor only         1 space for each dwelling unit
Resource recovery/recycling center (indoor      1 space per employee on maximum shift
only)
                                                1 per 4 seats, plus 1 per employee on maximum shift,
Restaurant, carryout not including drive- in    plus 1 per 100 square feet of gross floor area for
                                                customer service
                                                1 per 4 seats, plus 1 per employee on maximum shift,
Restaurant, drive-in or carryout                plus 1 per 100 square feet of gross floor area for
                                                customer service
                                                1 per 4 seats, plus 1 per employee on maximum shift,
Restaurant, indoor                              plus 1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area for
                                                customer service
Retail sales and service                        1 space for each 250 square feet of floor area
                                                accessible to the general public
Rooming or boarding house with an on site       0.5 per tenant
resident manager
School of private instruction                   0.75 per student
Seminary:                                        
   Dormitories                               1 space for each bed
   Employees                                 0.75 space for each employee on the maximum shift
   Gymnasiums                                1 space for each 6 permanent seats
   Lecture halls                             1 space for each 6 permanent seats
Service station                                 2 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per service
                                                bay
Sewage treatment plant                          As determined by the city planner
Shoe repair                                     2 spaces for each employee on maximum shift
Shooting or archery range                       1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per firing
                                                station
Single-family attached dwelling                 2 per dwelling unit
Single-family detached dwelling                 2 per dwelling unit
Slaughterhouse or stockyard                     1 space per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per
                                                company vehicle
Supermarket                                     1 space for each 250 square feet of floor area
                                                accessible to the general public
Swimming pool                                   1 per 30 square feet of gross pool area
Tailor or alterations shop                      2 spaces for each employee on maximum shift
Tennis, handball or racquetball courts          3 per court
Tool, die, or pattern making                    1 space per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per
                                                company vehicle
Tour home                                       As per zoning board of adjustment as part of a
                                                conditional use permit
Tourist home                                    2 spaces per dwelling unit
Townhouse                                       2 per dwelling unit
Two-family dwelling (duplex)                    2 per dwelling unit
                                                1.5 spaces for each employee on the maximum shift,
Upholstery shop                                 plus 1 space for each service bay and/or service
                                                vehicle
Vehicle body shop                               1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 3 per service
                                                bay
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per 500
Vehicle sales or rental                         square feet of gross floor area of indoor display
                                                area, plus 1 per 2,000 square feet of gross floor
                                                area of outdoor display area, plus 2 per service bay
Vehicle service or repair                       1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 3 per service
                                                bay
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per 250
Vending or game machine sales or service        square feet of gross floor area accessible to the
                                                public
Vocational school:                               
   Dormitories                               1 space for each bed
   Employees                                 0.75 space for each employee on the maximum shift
   Gymnasiums                                1 space for each 6 permanent seats
   Lecture halls                             1 space for each 6 permanent seats
Warehousing, packaging, distribution or storage 1 space per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per
facility                                        company vehicle
Welding services                                1 space per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per
                                                company vehicle
                                                1 per employee on maximum shift, plus 1 per service
Wholesale sales or distribution                 vehicle, plus 1 per 250 square feet of gross floor
                                                area accessible to the public
Winery                                          As per zoning board of adjustment as part of a
                                                conditional use permit
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 17-13, 3-18-2013; Ord. 3-22, 1-18-2022)
16-14-7: ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
Accessible parking spaces shall be provided as required by state or federal
law. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-14-8: NONCONFORMING PARKING LOTS:
   A.   All parking lots lawfully existing on the effective date of this title
may be continued, although such parking lots do not conform to the provisions
hereof. Such lots shall be maintained in conformance with this title and any
other city regulations. Such nonconforming parking lot may not be enlarged or
extended, except as provided herein. In the event that such parking lots are
discontinued or the normal operation thereof is stopped for a period of two (2)
years, any resumption of the use of said parking lot shall thereafter conform
to all of the requirements of this title.
   B.   The following provisions shall apply to extension and enlargement of
nonconforming parking lots:
      1.   If an existing nonconforming parking lot having less than twenty
(20) spaces on the effective date of this title is expanded fifty percent (50%)
or more in area, the entire parking lot shall be surfaced in conformance with
the appropriate design standards.
      2.   If an existing nonconforming parking lot having twenty (20) spaces
or more on the effective date of this title is expanded twenty five percent
(25%) or more in area, the entire parking lot shall be surfaced in conformance
with the appropriate design standards.
   C.   In the event that the main use of a lot served by a nonconforming
parking lot is changed in whole or in part to another use, any continued use or
resumption of the use of said nonconforming parking lot for parking shall
thereafter conform to all the requirements of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009)
16-14-9: BICYCLE PARKING REQUIRED:
Within all zoning districts, each parking facility providing fifty (50) or more
motor vehicle parking spaces shall provide accommodations for bicycles as
follows:
   A.   Parking lots with fifty (50) to one hundred (100) motor vehicle parking
spaces shall provide five (5) bicycle spaces.
   B.   Parking lots with one hundred (100) to one hundred fifty (150) motor
vehicle parking spaces shall provide eight (8) bicycle spaces.
   C.   Parking lots with one hundred fifty (150) to two hundred (200) motor
vehicle parking spaces shall provide ten (10) bicycle spaces.
   D.   Parking lots with more than two hundred (200) motor vehicle parking
spaces shall provide ten (10) bicycle spaces, plus two (2) additional bicycle
spaces for each fifty (50) parking spaces over two hundred (200). (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-14-10: SHARED PARKING REDUCTION:
   A.   Where more than one use is established on a single lot or within a
single development in a nonresidential district, the total number of off street
parking spaces required for each use may be combined and shared between uses.
Where the uses have nonconcurrent parking demands, a proposal for sharing a
reduced number of off street parking spaces may be presented to the planning
services department as part of the site plan review process. Conditional use
applications for which sharing a reduced number of off street parking spaces is
being proposed shall have shared parking approved as part of the conditional
use permit.
   B.   In determining the total requirements for shared parking facilities,
the following guidelines shall be followed:
      1.   For each applicable general land use category, calculate the number
of spaces required for a use as if it were the only use (refer to the schedule
of minimum off street parking requirements).
      2.   Use the figures for each individual land use to calculate the number
of spaces required for that use for each time period specified in the table (6
time periods per use).
      3.   For each time period, add the number of spaces required for all
applicable land uses to obtain a grand total for each of the six (6) time
periods.
      4.   Select the time period with the highest total parking requirement
and use that as the total number of parking spaces required for the site on a
shared parking basis.
   C.   For general land use categories not listed below, the planning services
department shall determine the required parking for the six (6) time periods.
             Weekday                       Weekend
General Land Midnight  7:00 A.M. 6:00 P.M. Midnight  7:00 A.M. 6:00 P.M.
Use Category To        To        To        To        To        To
             7:00 A.M. 6:00 P.M. Midnight  7:00 A.M. 6:00 P.M. Midnight
                  Weekday                       Weekend
General Land      Midnight  7:00 A.M. 6:00 P.M. Midnight  7:00 A.M. 6:00 P.M.
Use Category      To        To        To        To        To        To
                  7:00 A.M. 6:00 P.M. Midnight  7:00 A.M. 6:00 P.M. Midnight
Hotel             100%      65%       100%      100%      65%       100%
Office and        5%        100%      5%        0%        5%        0%
industrial
Place of assembly 0%        30%       50%       0%        100%      75%
Residential       100%      50%       80%       100%      75%       75%
Restaurant        50%       70%       100%      70%       50%       100%
Retail            5%        100%      80%       5%        100%      60%
Theater           5%        20%       100%      5%        50%       100%
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 15
SIGNS
SECTION:
16-15-1: Purpose
16-15-2: Applicability
16-15-3: Enforcement
16-15-4: Sign Installer's License
16-15-4-1: License Required
16-15-4-2: Exception
16-15-4-3: License Fee
16-15-4-4: Insurance Required
16-15-5: Definitions
16-15-6: Permit Required
16-15-6-1: Permit Application
16-15-6-2: Issuance
16-15-6-3: Permit Validity
16-15-6-4: Permit Expiration
16-15-6-5: Suspension Or Revocation
16-15-6-6: Inspections
16-15-7: Sign Calculations
16-15-8: Prohibited Signs
16-15-9: Exempt Signs
16-15-10: Temporary Signs
16-15-11: Permitted On Premises Signs
16-15-11-1: AG Agriculture And R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-3, And R-4 Residential
Districts
16-15-11-2: OR Office Residential District
16-15-11-3: OS Office Service District
16-15-11-4: OC Office Commercial District
16-15-11-5: C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
16-15-11-6: C-2 Neighborhood Shopping Center District
16-15-11-7: C-2A Mixed Use Neighborhood District
16-15-11-8: C-3 General Commercial District
16-15-11-9: C-4 Downtown Commercial District
16-15-11-10: C-5 Central Business District
16-15-11-11: CS Commercial Service And Wholesale District
16-15-11-12: CR Commercial Recreation District
16-15-11-13: ID Institutional District
16-15-11-14: LI, HI, And MHI Industrial Districts
16-15-12: Off Premises Signs
16-15-13: Signs In Historic Districts
16-15-14: Nonconforming Signs
16-15-15: Maintenance
16-15-16: Discontinued Or Abandoned Signs
16-15-17: Message Substitution
16-15-18: Projecting Signs
16-15-19: Fee Schedule
16-15-20: Design, Generally
16-15-21: Construction, Generally
16-15-22: Projection And Clearance, Generally
16-15-23: Standards Applicable To Specific Sign Types
16-15-23-1: Pole Signs
16-15-23-2: Ground Monument Signs
16-15-23-3: Wall Signs
16-15-23-4: Projecting Signs
16-15-23-5: Combination Signs
16-15-23-6: Marquee Signs
16-15-23-7: Electric Signs
16-15-23-8: Electronic Message Signs
16-15-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards to safeguard life,
health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design,
quality of materials, construction, location, electrification and maintenance
of all signs and sign structures not located within a building. The provisions
of this chapter set forth the comprehensive regulations, conditions and
limitations under which signs may be permitted in the city. This chapter is
intended:
   A.   To permit and regulate signs in the least burdensome way that will
carry out the purposes of these regulations and to support and complement the
land use objectives set forth in the comprehensive plan and this title.
   B.   To provide minimum standards for regulating and controlling the design,
quality of materials, construction, location, electrification and maintenance
of all signs and sign structures not located within a building.
   C.   To ensure compatibility of signs with surrounding land uses and
preserve the value of surrounding properties.
   D.   To allow sign users to communicate their messages, products, services
and facilities to patrons, customers and visitors.
   E.   To ensure that signs are designed, constructed and installed so as to
not compromise public safety.
   F.   To prevent visual clutter caused by the proliferation of signage that
may reduce the effectiveness of individual signs.
   G.   To preserve views of special and unique natural and architectural
features and historic landmarks.
   H.   To prevent the installation of a sign in such a manner as to confuse or
obstruct the view or interpretation of any official traffic sign, signal, or
device. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   A sign may be erected, placed, established, painted, created, or
maintained within the city only in conformance with the standards, procedures,
exemptions and other requirements of these sign regulations unless otherwise
required or permitted in other portions of this title.
   B.   Signs in existence at the time of the adoption of this title may have
their existing use continued, if such sign was legal at the time of adoption of
this title; provided that proof of insurance as required in section
16-15-4-4 of this chapter is filed with the building official.
   C.   All existing signs and sign support structures, together with all of
their supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in repair and in a
proper state of preservation. The display surfaces of all signs shall be kept
neatly painted or posted at all times.
   D.   Signs moved into or within the city shall comply with the provisions of
this title for new signs.
   E.   This chapter shall not be construed so as to permit any violation of
the provisions of this title or any other lawful ordinance. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009)
16-15-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Building Official: The building official is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce all the provisions of this title. For such purposes the
building official shall have the powers of a law enforcement officer.
   B.   Right Of Entry: Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any
of the provisions of this title, or whenever the building official or
authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in
any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation which makes
such building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the building official
or authorized representative may enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the
building official by this title; provided, that if such building or premises be
occupied, the building official or authorized representative shall first
present proper credentials and request entry; and if such building or premises
be unoccupied, there shall first be made a reasonable effort to locate the
owner or other persons having charge or control of the building or premises and
request entry. If such entry is refused, the building official or authorized
representative shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure
entry.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, remove, improve or maintain any sign
or sign structure or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of this
title. The doing of any act, or the omission of any act, declared to be
unlawful by this title, or any code or ordinance herein adopted by reference
shall be deemed a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any such unlawful act is committed, continued or permitted. The
penalty herein provided shall be cumulative with and in addition to the
revocation, cancellation or forfeiture of any license or permit elsewhere in
this title provided for violation thereof. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-4: SIGN INSTALLER'S LICENSE:
16-15-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, remove or
improve any sign or sign structure covered by this title, or cause or permit
the same to be done unless licensed by the city. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-4-2: EXCEPTION:
No license shall be required of a person to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, remove or improve any sign or sign structure exempted from the
requirement to obtain a permit as specified in section
16-15-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-4-3: LICENSE FEE:
Before a license is granted to any applicant under this section and before a
license is renewed, the applicant shall pay the required city sign fee as
adopted by the city council. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-4-4: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Prior to the issuance or renewal of a sign license, the applicant shall furnish
to the building official such comprehensive public liability and property
damage insurance, written by an insurer licensed to do business in the state,
as required by the city. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-5: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are applicable to this chapter:
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a business,
lessor, service, owner, product, or activity at that premises or a sign for
which no legal owner can be found.
AERIAL SIGN: A balloon or other inflatable device which sits on a surface or is
tethered to the ground or to a building or vehicle or other structure that
directs attention to a business, commodity, service, or entertainment
conducted, sold, or offered, regardless of whether it does or does not contain
text or advertising copy.
AUDIBLE SIGN: A sign that conveys either a written message supported by an
audible noise including music, spoken message, and/or sounds to attract
attention to the sign. Audible signs also include signs conveying only the
audible noise including music, spoken message, and/or sounds to attract
attention.
BACKLIT SIGN: A sign whose light source is located behind fully opaque letters
and/or graphics.
BANNER SIGN: A sign of fabric or similar material that is permanently mounted
to a pole or building by a permanent frame at one or more edges. National
flags, state or municipal flags, or official flag of any institution or
business shall not be considered banners. Banner signs may not contain a
commercial message.
BENCH SIGN: A sign located on the seat or back of a bench or seat placed on or
adjacent to a public right of way.
BILLBOARD SIGN: See definition of Off Premises Sign.
BUILDING COMPLEX: Two (2) or more buildings on the same lot or premises sharing
one or more common access points and parking facilities.
BUILDING MARKER SIGN: A sign indicating the name of a building and date and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry
surface or displayed on a stone or metal plaque attached to the building.
BUILDING SIGN: A sign supported by, painted on or otherwise attached to any
building or structure.
CANOPY/AWNING SIGN: An enclosed, illuminated (backlit awning) or nonilluminated
structure that is attached to the wall of a building with the sign area
integrated into its surface. For purposes of this title, this is considered a
wall mounted sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4310.gif]
CENTER IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign indicating direction to a multi-tenant
commercial building, building complex, shopping center or similar center which
may include multiple uses and/or structures within the development. Center
identification signs shall include the name of said development and may include
the names of tenants within the development.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged manually without otherwise
altering the face of the sign.
COMBINATION SIGN: A sign incorporating any combination of the features of
freestanding, projecting, roof, and wall signs.
COMMEMORATIVE SIGN: A permanent sign or architectural feature indicating the
name of the structure, its address, date of construction, or other information
of commemorative or historical significance.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4312.gif]
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A temporary sign identifying an architect, contractor,
subcontractor, material supplier, financier, realtor, or others participating
in the construction or development of the property on which the sign is
located.
DIRECT LIGHTING: Illumination by means of an external source.
DIRECTIONAL/INFORMATIONAL SIGN: An on premises sign identifying a premises, or
an activity conducted upon such premises, and providing direction for the safe
and efficient flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic to such activity or
premises. Directional signs shall include signs marking entrances, exits,
parking areas, loading areas or other operational features of the premises.
DIRECTORY SIGN: An on premises sign identifying an activity, operational
feature, or business name upon such premises. The building names, offices, or
activities shall be displayed in the same size letters, colors and general
design.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4314.gif]
DISCONTINUED SIGN: See definition of Abandoned Sign.
DOUBLE FACED SIGN: A sign constructed to display its message on the outer
surfaces of two (2) identical and opposite planes not exceeding forty five
degrees (45°).
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN: A sign that uses changing lights to form a sign
message or messages wherein the sequence of messages and the rate of change is
electronically programmed and can be modified by electronic processes.
EXTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign whose illumination is derived from an
external source.
FACADE: The entire building front, including the parapet.
FENCE SIGN: A freestanding sign attached to or painted on a fence.
FLASHING SIGN: A sign, which, by method or manner of illumination, flashes on
or off, winks, or blinks with varying light intensity, shows motion, or creates
the illusion of being on or off. A flashing sign does not include electronic
message center signs.
FREESTANDING CANOPY SIGN: A sign affixed to, or part of, a canopy face
advertising the business.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign supported by uprights or a brace placed in the ground
and is not supported by any building.
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4316.gif]
 
GAS STATION PRICE SIGN: A changeable copy or electronic sign advertising
gasoline prices.
GOVERNMENT SIGN: A temporary or permanent sign erected and/or maintained by the
federal, state, county, city governments, or in conjunction with the city, for
identification, traffic control or direction, or for designation of or
direction to any school, hospital, historic site, or public service, property,
or facility.
GROUND MONUMENT SIGN: A structure built on grade that is wider than it is high,
is solid, and has continuous contact with the ground.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4318.gif]
 
HAZARDOUS SIGN: A sign that by reason of design, inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence or placement creates a hazard to the public health,
safety and welfare.
HISTORIC DISTRICT: An area designated as a "historic district" by ordinance and
which contains within definable geographic boundaries, properties, or
buildings, that may or may not be landmarks but which contribute to the overall
historic character of the designated area.
HOLIDAY DECORATION SIGN: A temporary sign, in the nature of decorations,
customary and commonly associated with federal, state, local, or religious
holidays and containing no commercial message.
ILLEGAL SIGN: Any of the following:
   A.   A sign erected without first obtaining a permit and complying with all
regulations in effect at the time of its construction or use.
   B.   A sign that was legally erected but whose use has ceased because the
business it identifies is no longer conducted on the premises.
   C.   A sign that was legally installed but altered in a manner that made it
illegal.
   D.   A sign that is a danger to the public or is unsafe.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign illuminated in any manner by a light source.
INCIDENTAL SIGN: A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose secondary
to the use of the lot on which it is located, such as "no
parking","entrance","loading only", "telephone", and other similar directives.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4320.gif]
 
INFLATABLE SIGN: A sign designed or constructed to be filled with air or gas
that displays either the business name or an identifiable corporate character
or logo.
INTERNAL SIGN: A sign that is not visible from outside the property, and
located so as not to be visible from any public right of way or from any
adjacent property, including any signs in interior areas of shopping centers,
commercial buildings and structures, stadiums, and similar structures of a
recreational nature. Included in such definition is a sign inside a building,
window or door and any sign not attached to a window or door that is not
legible from a distance of more than five feet (5') beyond the lot line of the
property.
INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign whose light source is in the interior of
the sign so that light passes through the face of the sign.
KIOSK SIGN: A freestanding bulletin board or a sign that is meant to provide
direction to the public.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4322.gif]
 
MAINTENANCE: The cleaning, painting, repair, or replacement of defective parts
of a sign in a manner that does not alter the copy, design, or structure of the
sign.
MARQUEE SIGN: A sign located on any permanent rooflike structure projecting
beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the
building.
MENU BOARD SIGN: A permanently mounted sign displaying the bill of fare for a
restaurant.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4324.gif]
 
MESSAGE CENTER SIGN: See definition of Electronic Message Sign.
MOBILE SIGN: A sign mounted on a motor vehicle, trailer or other framework, not
permanently attached to a pole, building or other structure.
MOVING SIGN: A sign which in part or in total rotates, revolves, or otherwise
is in motion.
NAMEPLATE SIGN: An on premises identification sign, giving only the name,
address, and/or occupation of an occupant or group of occupants.
NEON SIGN: A sign containing glass tube lighting in which a gas and phosphors
are used in combination to create a colored light.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign that does not conform to the requirements of this
title.
OBSOLETE SIGN: See definition of Abandoned Sign.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: A sign structure advertising an establishment, merchandise,
service, or entertainment which is not sold, produced, manufactured, or
furnished at the property on which said sign is located.
ON PREMISES SIGN: A commercial sign which pertains to the use of the premises
on which it is located.
PAINTED GHOST WALL SIGN: Historic sign copy applied to a building wall with
paint or similar substances on the face of a wall, and which has no sign
structure, and advertises products from the past.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4326.gif]
 
PAINTED WALL SIGN: A sign applied to a building wall with paint or similar
substances on the face of a wall and which has no sign structure. A "painted
wall sign" is considered to be a wall mounted sign for calculation purposes.
PENNANT SIGN: A lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string and
designed to move in the wind.
PERMANENT SIGN: A sign attached to a building, structure, or the ground in some
manner that requires a permit and that is made of materials intended for long
term use.
POLE SIGN: A sign that is mounted on a freestanding pole or other support so
that the bottom edge of the sign face(s) is above grade.
POLITICAL SIGN: A sign identifying and urging support for a particular election
issue, political party, or candidate for public office or expressing the
personal noncommercial views of the property owner or tenant.
PORTABLE SIGN: A sign, usually of a temporary nature, not securely anchored to
the ground or to a building or structure. Examples are: sandwich board signs,
umbrellas used for advertising, and signs attached to or painted on vehicles
parked and visible from the public right of way, unless said vehicle is used in
the normal day to day operations (deliveries and transportation of personnel)
of the business.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign other than a flat wall sign, which is attached to and
projects from a building wall or other structure not specifically designed to
support the sign and is not parallel to the structure to which it is attached.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4328.gif]
 
PUBLIC/TRAFFIC INFORMATION SIGN: A sign, erected and maintained by a public
agency that provides the public with information. Includes, but not limited to,
speed limit signs, stop signs, city limit signs, welcome signs, street name
signs, vehicle identification signs, pedestrian wayfinding signs, and
destination and directional signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4330.gif]
 
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A temporary sign that identifies property or properties that
are for rent, sale or lease.
ROOF SIGN: A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet wall of the building,
which is wholly or partially supported by such building or is made to be an
integral part of the roof structure.
ROOFLINE: The top edge of the roof or building parapet, whichever is higher.
SANDWICH BOARD SIGN: An advertising or business ground sign constructed in such
a manner as to form an "A" or a tentlike shape, hinged or not hinged at the
top; each angular face held by a supporting member.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4332.gif]
 
SIGN: A device, structure, fixture, or placard using graphics, symbols, and/or
written copy designed specifically for the purpose of advertising or
identifying any establishment, point of view, opinion, product, goods,
services, activities or uses.
SIGN AREA: The entire face of a sign including the advertising surface and any
framing, trim, or molding, but not including the supporting structure.
SIGN CABINET: A module, background, or an enclosure containing channels or
other means of fastening and displaying a sign panel, but excluding sign
supports, architectural framing, or other decorative features which contain no
written message.
SIGN COPY: A combination of letters or numbers which is intended to inform,
direct or otherwise transmit information.
SIGN COPY AREA: The area of the sign occupied by sign copy. It is computed by
measuring the area enclosed by straight lines drawn to enclose the extremities
of the letters or numbers.
SIGN FACE: The area or display surface used for the sign copy.
SIGN HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the highest point of the sign,
excluding embellishments of not more than five feet (5') in height above the
sign, to the average ground grade beneath the sign.
SIGN PANEL: A sign surface containing a message that is separate and removable
from a sign cabinet. A panel that contains a message and is attachable to a
surface or sign structure without the use of a sign cabinet is not a sign
panel.
SIGN SETBACK: The horizontal distance from the property line to the nearest
projection of the existing or proposed sign.
SIGN STRUCTURE: The base, supports, uprights, bracing, or framework of any
structure exhibiting a sign, be it single faced, double faced, V-type or
otherwise.
SIGNAGE PLAN: A scaled or dimensioned graphic representation showing a
comprehensive detailed presentation of all signage proposed for a particular
lot.
SPECIAL EVENT SIGN: A sign that is temporary in nature, not permanently
attached to the ground or building surface, and used for special events, such
as, but not limited to, grand openings, seasonal sales, liquidations, going out
of business sales, fire sales, and promotions.
SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A ground monument style sign or wall sign
identifying a recognized subdivision, condominium complex, or residential
development.
TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign constructed of cloth, fabric, or other material with or
without a structural frame intended for a limited period of display, including
displays for holidays or public demonstrations.
UNDER CANOPY SIGN: A sign attached beneath a canopy, ceiling, roof, or marquee.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4334.gif]
 
V-TYPE SIGN: A sign with two (2) separate faces at one location that are at an
angle of forty five degrees (45°) or less to each other.
VIDEO SIGN: Any sign that conveys either a commercial or noncommercial message,
including a business or organization name, through means of a television or
other video screen.
WALL SIGN: A sign attached parallel to, but within eighteen inches (18") of, a
wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits
of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such
wall or building, and which displays only one sign surface.
WARNING SIGN: A sign located on a property posting such property for warning or
prohibitions on parking, trespassing, hunting, fishing, swimming, or other
activity.
WINDOW SIGN: A sign, pictures, symbol, or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale, or
service, that is placed inside a window or upon the window panes or glass and
is visible from the exterior of the window.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4336.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-6: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A sign shall not hereafter be erected, reerected, constructed, altered or
maintained, except as provided by this title and after a permit for the same
has been issued by the building official. A separate permit shall be required
for a sign or signs for each business entity, and a separate permit shall be
required for each group of signs on a single supporting structure. In addition,
electrical permits shall be obtained for electric signs. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-
2009)
16-15-6-1: PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   Application Form: Application for a sign permit shall be made in
writing upon forms furnished by the building official. Such application shall
contain the location by street and number of the proposed sign structure, as
well as the name and address of the owner and the sign contractor or erector.
   B.   Submission: Plans, engineering calculations, diagrams and other data
shall be submitted in one or more sets with each application for a permit. The
building official may require plans, computations and specifications to be
prepared and designed by an engineer or architect licensed by the state to
practice as such.
   C.   Exception: The building official may waive the submission of plans,
calculations, construction inspection requirements, etc., if he or she finds
that the nature of the work applied for is such that reviewing of plans is not
necessary to obtain compliance with this title.
   D.   Information On Plans And Specifications: Plans and specifications shall
be drawn to scale upon substantial paper or cloth and shall be of sufficient
clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed and
show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of this title and all
relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-6-2: ISSUANCE:
   A.   The building official shall within twenty (20) days of the filing of a
completed application for a sign permit either issue a permit to the applicant
or issue a written notice of intent to deny a permit to the applicant. The
building official shall issue a sign permit immediately unless:
      1.   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
chapter for issuance of a permit or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
      2.   The permit application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      3.   The completed application demonstrates that the sign applied for is
not in compliance with requirements of this chapter or is not in compliance
with another part of this code.
   B.   If the building official determines that the permit will not be issued,
the building official shall immediately send a notice, which shall include the
specific grounds under this chapter for such action, to the applicant by
personal delivery or certified mail. The notice shall be directed to the
address set out in the application. The applicant shall have ten (10) days
after the delivery of the written notice to submit, at the office of the
building official, a written request for a hearing. If the applicant does not
request a hearing within said ten (10) days, the building official's written
notice shall become a final denial.
   C.   If the applicant does make a written request for a hearing within said
ten (10) days, then the building official shall, within ten (10) days after the
submission of the request, designate a neutral hearing officer and send a
notice to the applicant indicating the name of the hearing officer, the date,
time, and place of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted not less than
ten (10) days nor more than twenty (20) days after the date that the hearing
notice is issued. The city shall provide for the hearing to be transcribed.
   D.   At the hearing, the applicant shall have the opportunity to present all
of applicant's arguments and to be represented by counsel, present evidence and
witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross examine any of the city's witnesses.
The building official may also be represented by counsel, and shall bear the
burden of proving the grounds for denying the permit. The hearing shall take no
longer than two (2) days, unless extended at the request of the applicant to
meet the requirements of due process and proper administration of justice. The
hearing officer shall issue a final written decision, including specific
reasons for the decision pursuant to this chapter, to the applicant within five
(5) days after the hearing.
   E.   If the decision is to deny the permit, the decision shall advise the
applicant of the right to appeal such decision to a court of competent
jurisdiction. If the hearing officer's decision finds that no grounds exist for
denial of the permit, the hearing officer shall, contemporaneously with the
issuance of the decision, order the city to immediately issue the permit to the
applicant. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-6-3: PERMIT VALIDITY:
   A.   The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be construed to be a
permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this
title or of any other ordinance of the city. Permits presuming to give
authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this chapter or of any other
ordinances of the city shall not be valid.
   B.   The issuance of a permit based upon plans, specifications and other
data shall not prevent the building official from thereafter requiring the
correction of errors in said plans, specifications and other data. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-15-6-4: PERMIT EXPIRATION:
   A.   Every permit issued by the building official under the provisions of
this title shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the structure
or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within one hundred eighty
(180) days from the date of such permit, or if the structure or work authorized
by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is
commenced for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days. Before such work can
be recommenced, a new permit shall be first obtained. In order to renew action
on a permit after expiration, the permittee shall pay a new full permit fee.
   B.   Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for an extension of
the time within which he may commence work under that permit when he is unable
to commence work within the time required by this section for good and
satisfactory reasons. The building official may extend the time for action by
the permittee for a period not exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days upon
written request by the permittee showing that circumstances beyond the control
of the permittee have prevented action from being taken. No permit shall be
extended more than once. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-6-5: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
The building official may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued under
the provisions of this title whenever the permit is issued in error or on the
basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any ordinance or
regulation or any of the provisions of this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-6-6: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   All signs for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection
by the building official.
   B.   Footing inspections shall be required by the building official for all
signs having footings.
   C.   All signs containing electrical wiring shall be subject to the
provisions of the electrical code, and the electrical components used shall
bear the label of an approved testing agency.
   D.   The building official may order the removal of any sign that is not
maintained in accordance with the provisions of section
16-15-15 of this chapter.
   E.   All signs may be reinspected at the discretion of the building
official. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-7: SIGN CALCULATIONS:
   A.   On Premises Signs:
      1.   Single Face: The area of a single face sign shall be measured by
calculating the area of each cabinet, module or panel which makes up the sign
face and summing the combined areas to determine the total area. No integral
structural element or support, including structural embellishments such as pole
covers, framing or architectural design elements, shall be included in the
measurement of sign area; provided, that there is no sign copy, symbol or other
advertising message upon such structural element or support. Such structural
element or embellishment shall not exceed the total square footage allowed for
the sign area. Should any sign copy, symbol or other advertising message be
located on such structural element or support, the area enclosed by straight
lines drawn closest to the copy extremities encompassing the individual
letters, words or symbols shall be included in the total sign area calculation.
The area of a sign composed only of separate letters, words or symbols, without
background, shall be the area enclosed by straight lines drawn closest to the
copy extremities encompassing the individual letters, words or symbols.
      2.   Double Faced: Same as single face except only one face shall be
counted for sign area determination.
      3.   Multiple Faced: Same as single face except that only one face shall
be counted for area determination and each face shall be reduced in area by
twenty percent (20%), for each face over two (2).
   B.   Off Premises Signs:
      1.   Sign Area: The area of off premises signs shall be measured in the
same manner as on premises signs, except that for off premises signs having
"add ons" to the principal sign panel, the sign area of each "add on" shall be
calculated separately and added to the principal sign panel. In no case shall
the total sign area of the principal sign panel when added to the sign area of
the "add ons" exceed the maximum sign area provided within the district in
which it is located.
      2.   Sign Number: The number of signs shall be the number of permitted
signs displayed on a premises.
      3.   Single Face: Each structure displaying unified informational content
shall be counted as one sign.
      4.   Double Faced: A double faced sign meeting the same requirements of a
single face sign and supported on a single structure shall be counted as one
sign.
      5.   Multiple Faced: Multiple faced signs, including V-shaped signs,
meeting the same requirements of a single face sign and supported on a single
structure shall be counted as one sign.
      6.   Signs On Multiple Frontage Lots: Zoning lots which have separate
frontages on more than one street, including through lots and corner lots,
shall not display signs along any one street frontage in excess of the maximum
area and maximum number permitted for that street frontage. Each frontage is to
be considered separately.
      7.   Painted Wall Signs: Nonstructural signs painted on buildings shall
be regulated in size, location, height and number as wall mounted signs.
      8.   Figure 15-7, Sign Illustrations: Figure 15-7 provides illustrations
of how to calculate sign area and the number of faces for purposes of this
chapter. These are illustrations only and do not necessarily represent all
possible conditions and/or situations; final determination of calculations lies
strictly with the city.
         a.   Calculating The Number Of Faces:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4338.gif]
 
         b.   Types Of Signage:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4340.gif]
 
         c.   Calculating Sign Area:
 
A     = Sign face width
B     = Sign face height
C     = Sign structure height
A x B = Sign area
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4342.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4344.gif]
 
         d.   Alternative Sign Area Calculations:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4346.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4348.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4350.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4356.gif]
         e.   Calculating The Number Of Signs:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4352.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4359.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4361.gif]
 
         f.   Building Frontage:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4363.gif]
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-8: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs shall be expressly prohibited in all zoning districts, any
contrary provisions or implications of this title notwithstanding:
   A.   Any sign prohibited by state or federal regulation.
   B.   Any sign which infringes upon the area of a visibility triangle as
required in section
16-3-5 of this title.
   C.   Any sign which contains the words "danger" or "stop", or otherwise
presents or implies the need or requirement of stopping or caution, which is an
imitation of, or is likely to be confused with, any sign customarily displayed
by a public authority.
   D.   Any sign or lighting which casts direct light or glare upon any
property in a residential or office residential district.
   E.   Any portable sign, including any sign displayed on a stored vehicle,
except temporary political signs exempted in section
16-15-9 of this chapter.
   F.   Any sign which obstructs the reasonable visibility of a sign maintained
by a public authority, or which otherwise distracts attention from such sign.
   G.   Any sign attached to public or private utility poles, signs or other
appurtenances, including trees, located in the public right of way.
   H.   Roof signs as defined in section
16-15-5 of this chapter, except that any on premises roof sign of less than one
hundred (100) square feet and located in a C-3 district which was constructed
prior to March 18, 1985, shall not be prohibited by this section and shall be
deemed to be an allowed wall mounted sign, provided that multiple signs are of
uniform height not to exceed six feet (6') above eaves and signs that do not
conform with this standard will be brought into conformance with a change in
use.
   I.   Any flashing signs as defined in section
16-15-5 of this chapter.
   J.   Prohibited sign examples; parapet, roof and canopy signs:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4365.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4367.gif]
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-9: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following types of signs are exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
   A.   Holiday or special events decorations.
   B.   Nameplates of two (2) square feet or less, provided that in residential
districts or on residential structures only name and address may comprise the
nameplate.
   C.   Political signs no larger than thirty two (32) square feet, provided
they are not placed in any public right of way or in a visibility triangle as
required in section
16-3-5 of this title.
   D.   Government signs.
   E.   Real estate signs on residential property provided they are not over
twelve (12) square feet in area and not over six feet (6') in height. Real
estate signs advertising commercial, agricultural or industrial property or
subdivisions of multiple lots shall not be over thirty two (32) square feet in
area and twelve feet (12') in height. Such signs shall not be placed in any
public right of way or in a visibility triangle as required in section
16-3-5 of this title.
   F.   Nonilluminated window signs.
   G.   Illuminated window signs not exceeding twenty (20) square feet.
   H.   Commemorative signs.
   I.   Construction signs not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet.
   J.   Official flags of nations, states or political subdivisions thereof.
   K.   Painted ghost wall signs. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-10: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
Temporary signs, where allowed, shall be erected and maintained in accordance
with the following provisions:
   A.   Permit And Fee Required: No persons shall erect, alter or relocate any
temporary sign except for real estate and political signs without first making
application, submitting the required permit fee, and obtaining a temporary sign
permit from the building official.
   B.   Limit On Number Of Permits: No more than four (4) temporary sign
permits shall be issued for the same zoning lot in one calendar year.
   C.   Materials And Methods: The building official shall impose as a
condition of a temporary sign permit, such requirements as to material and
manner of construction as are necessary to assure the safety and convenience of
the public.
   D.   Sign Types: Temporary signs shall be nonprojecting building signs or
freestanding signs. Pennants, banners and inflatable signs are permitted
temporary signs.
   E.   Number, Area, Height And Location: The maximum sign area of
nonprojecting building signs or freestanding signs or other temporary signs
shall be thirty two (32) square feet in all zoning districts. Signs shall not
be greater than five feet (5') in height. Such signs shall not be placed in any
public right of way or in a visibility triangle as required in section
16-3-5 of this title. No temporary business sign shall be placed within fifty
feet (50') of another temporary sign.
   F.   Quasi-Public Signs: Quasi-public signs, giving notice of special events
and activities sponsored by civic, patriotic, religious or charitable
organizations for noncommercial purposes, subject to the following:
      1.   Location: Quasi-public signs may be located on or off the premises
where the event is taking place provided permission is given by the owner of
the property. Such signs shall not project beyond any lot line.
      2.   Timing: Quasi-public signs shall not be erected or maintained more
than thirty (30) days prior to the date on which the event advertised is to
occur and shall be removed immediately after the termination of the event.
   G.   Temporary Business Signs: Temporary business signs, calling attention
to a special, unique or limited activity, service or product or sale of limited
duration, as follows:
      1.   Location: Temporary business signs shall be located only on the lot
upon which the special activity is to occur. Such signs shall not project over
any lot line.
      2.   Timing: Temporary business signs shall be erected and maintained for
a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, at the expiration of which the permit
holder shall immediately remove such temporary sign. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-11: PERMITTED ON PREMISES SIGNS:
On premises signs shall be allowed in each zoning district as shown below and
according to the following:
   A.   Signs located within a PUD shall be approved as part of the ordinance
establishing the PUD.
   B.   Signs located within a historic district may be allowed as provided in
section
16-15-13 of this chapter, and shall be approved by the historic preservation
commission prior to the issuance of a building permit.
   C.   Signs for conditional uses shall be as shown in this section
16-15-11 unless further restricted by the board of adjustment. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009)
16-15-11-1: AG AGRICULTURE AND R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-3, AND R-4 RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                                                                 Permitted    Maximum                              Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs                                                Sign         Area              Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                                                                 Structures   (Square Number    Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                                                              Feet)             Of Way
AG agriculture and R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-3 and R-4 residential:
   Identification signs:                                                                                             
                                                                 Freestanding                              10 feet
                                                                              32 per                       Below   Indirect,
      Educational or religious institutions                Wall         sign    2         0          eaves   no        None
                                                                                                           or      flashing
                                                                                                           parapet
                                                                 Freestanding                              10 feet
                                                                              32 per                       Below   Indirect,
      Real estate development or subdivision identificationWalln        sign    2         0          eaves   no        None
                                                                                                           or      flashing
                                                                                                           parapet
   Directional signs:                                                                                                
                                                                 Freestanding                   0          Below
                                                                 Projecting   6 per   Not       60 inches  eaves   Internal,
      Educational or religious institutions, parking lots               sign    specified            or      no        None
                                                                 Wall                           0          parapet flashing
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-11-2: OR OFFICE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                                                                 Permitted    Maximum                              Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs                                                Sign         Area              Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                                                                 Structures   (Square Number    Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                                                              Feet)             Of Way
OR office residential:
   Identification signs:                                                                                             
                                                                                      1 per
                                                                 Freestanding 40 per  premises             10 feet
                                                                              sign    or
      Business or office                                                        complex   0                  No        None
                                                                                      1 per                Below   flashing
                                                                 Wall         16 per  business             eaves
                                                                              sign    or office            or
                                                                                                           parapet
                                                                 Freestanding                              10 feet
                                                                              32 per                       Below   No
      Educational or religious institutions                Wall         sign    2         0          eaves   flashing  None
                                                                                                           or
                                                                                                           parapet
                                                                 Freestanding                              10 feet
                                                                              32 per                       Below   No
      Real estate development or subdivision identificationWalln        sign    2         0          eaves   flashing  None
                                                                                                           or
                                                                                                           parapet
                                                                                      1 per                Below
                                                                 Wall         6 per   business             eaves   No
      All applications                                     nameplate    sign    per       0          or      flashing  None
                                                                                      street               parapet
                                                                                      frontage
   Directional signs:                                                                                                
                                                                 Freestanding                   0          6 feet
                                                                 Projecting                     60 inches  Below   Internal,
      All applications                                                  6 per   Not                  eaves   no        None
                                                                 Wall         sign    specified 0          or      flashing
                                                                                                           parapet
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-11-3: OS OFFICE SERVICE DISTRICT:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                                                                         Permitted    Maximum                              Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs                                                        Sign         Area              Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                                                                         Structures   (Square Number    Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                                                                      Feet)             Of Way
OS office service:
   Identification signs:                                                                                                     
                                                                                      40 per  1 per
                                                                         Freestanding sign    street               25 feet
      Building complex with 2 or more buildings per lot or sharing                      frontage                     No
access                                                                                        1 per     0          Below   flashing  None
                                                                         Wall         16 per  business             eaves
                                                                                      sign    or office            or
                                                                                                                   parapet
                                                                         Freestanding 32 per  1 per                10 feet
                                                                                      sign    premises
      Business or office                                                                          0          Below   No        None
                                                                         Wall         16 per  1 per                eaves   flashing
                                                                                      sign    business             or
                                                                                                                   parapet
                                                                         Freestanding                              5 feet
                                                                                      10 per  1 per                Below   No
      Directory                                                    Wall         sign    building  0          eaves   flashing  None
                                                                                              entrance             or
                                                                                                                   parapet
                                                                                              1 per                Below
                                                                         Wall         6 per   business             eaves   No
      All applications                                             nameplate    sign    per       0          or      flashing  None
                                                                                              street               parapet
                                                                                              frontage
   Directional signs:                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                           Internal,
                                                                         Freestanding                   0          10 feet no
                                                                                                                           flashing
      All applications                                             Projecting   6 per   Not       60 inches  Below             None
                                                                                      sign    specified            eaves   No
                                                                         Wall                           0          or      flashing
                                                                                                                   parapet
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-11-4: OC OFFICE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                                                                         Permitted    Maximum                              Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs                                                        Sign         Area              Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                                                                         Structures   (Square Number    Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                                                                      Feet)             Of Way
OC office commercial:
   Identification signs:                                                                                                     
                                                                                      40 per  1 per
                                                                         Freestanding sign    street               25 feet
      Building complex with 2 or more buildings per lot or sharing                      frontage                     No
access                                                                                        1 per     0          Below   flashing  None
                                                                         Wall         16 per  business             eaves
                                                                                      sign    or office            or
                                                                                                                   parapet
                                                                                              1 per
                                                                         Freestanding 32 per  premises             10 feet
                                                                                      sign    or
      Business or office                                                                complex   0                  No        None
                                                                                              1 per                Below   flashing
                                                                         Wall         16 per  business             eaves
                                                                                      sign    or office            or
                                                                                                                   parapet
                                                                         Ground                                    5 feet
                                                                         monument             1 per
      Directory                                                                 10 per  building  0          Below   No        None
                                                                         Wall         sign    entrance             eaves   flashing
                                                                                                                   or
                                                                                                                   parapet
                                                                                              1 per                Below
                                                                         Wall         6 per   business             eaves   No
      All applications                                             nameplate    sign    per       0          or      flashing  None
                                                                                              street               parapet
                                                                                              frontage
   Directional signs:                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                           Internal,
                                                                         Freestanding                   0          10 feet no
                                                                                                                           flashing
      All applications                                             Projecting   6 per   Not       60 inches  Below             None
                                                                                      sign    specified            eaves   No
                                                                         Wall                           0          or      flashing
                                                                                                                   parapet
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-11-5: C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                     Permitted    Maximum                              Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs    Sign         Area              Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                     Structures   (Square Number    Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                  Feet)             Of Way
C-1 neighborhood commercial:
   Identification                                                        
signs:
                                  25 per                               Internal,
                     Projecting   sign    1 per     60 inches  Below   no
      All                           business             eaves   flashing
applications         Wall         40 per  per       0          or                None
                                  sign    street               parapet No
                     Wall         6 per   frontage  0                  flashing
                     nameplate    sign
   Directional                                                           
signs:
                     Freestanding                   0          10 feet Internal,
                                                                       no
                     Projecting                     60 inches  Below   flashing
      All                   6 per   Not                  eaves             None
applications                      sign    specified            or
                     Wall                           0          parapet No
                                                                       flashing
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-11-6: C-2 NEIGHBORHOOD SHOPPING CENTER DISTRICT:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                                               Permitted    Maximum                                 Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs                              Sign         Area                 Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                                               Structures   (Square Number       Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                                            Feet)                Of Way
C-2 neighborhood shopping center:
   Identification signs:                                                                              
                                                                    1 per
                                                            100 per premises or
                                               Freestanding sign    complex; 0   0          20 feet
                                                                    if 2 wall
                                                                    signs
                                               Projecting   25 per  2 total;     60                 Internal,
      Business, retail or office                      sign    only 1 total                    no        None
                                                                    in                      Below   flashing
                                                                    combination             eaves
                                               Wall         50 per  with a       0          or
                                                            sign    freestanding            parapet
                                                                    sign

                                                                    1 per                   Below
      Directory                          Wall         10 per  building     0          eaves   No        None
                                                            sign    entrance                or      flashing
                                                                                            parapet
                                                            20 per                          On      Internal,
      Freestanding canopy                Wall         sign    2 per canopy 0          canopy  no        None
                                                                                            fascia  flashing
                                               Freestanding 200 per 1 per                   20 feet
                                                            sign    premises
      Shopping center or multiple tenant                                   0          Below   No        None
building                                       Wall         50 per  1 per                   eaves   flashing
                                                            sign    business                or
                                                                                            parapet
                                                                    1 per                   Below
      All applications                   Wall         6 per   business per 0          eaves   No        None
                                               nameplate    sign    street                  or      flashing
                                                                    frontage                parapet
   Directional signs:                                                                                 
                                                                                                    Internal,
                                               Freestanding                                 10 feet no
                                                            6 per   Not                             flashing
      All applications                                sign    specified    0          Below             None
                                               Wall                                         eaves   No
                                                                                            or      flashing
                                                                                            parapet
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-11-7: C-2A MIXED USE NEIGHBORHOOD DISTRICT:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                                               Permitted    Maximum                                 Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs                              Sign         Area                 Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                                               Structures   (Square Number       Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                                            Feet)                Of Way
C-2A mixed use neighborhood:
   Identification signs:                                                                              
                                                                    1 per
                                                            100 per premises or
                                               Freestanding sign    complex; 0   0          20 feet
                                                                    if 2 wall
                                                                    signs
                                               Projecting   25 per  2 per        60                 Internal,
      Business, retail or office                      sign    premises or                     no        None
                                                                    complex; 1              Below   flashing
                                                                    in                      eaves
                                                            50 per  combination             or
                                               Wall         sign    with a       0          parapet
                                                                    freestanding
                                                                    sign

                                                                    1 per                   Below
      Directory                          Wall         10 per  building     0          eaves   No        None
                                                            sign    entrance                or      flashing
                                                                                            parapet
                                                            20 per                          Below   Internal,
      Freestanding canopy                Wall         sign    2 per canopy 0          canopy  no        None
                                                                                            fascia  flashing
                                               Freestanding 200 per 1 per                   20 feet
                                                            sign    premises
      Shopping center or multiple tenant                                   0          Below   No        None
building                                       Wall         50 per  1 per                   eaves   flashing
                                                            sign    business                or
                                                                                            parapet
                                                                    1 per                   Below
      All applications                   Wall         6 per   business per 0          eaves   No        None
                                               nameplate    sign    street                  or      flashing
                                                                    frontage                parapet
   Directional signs:                                                                                 
                                               Freestanding                                 10 feet
                                                            6 per   Not                     Below   Internal,
      All applications                   Wall         sign    specified    0          eaves   no        None
                                                                                            or      flashing
                                                                                            parapet
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-11-8: C-3 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                                                               Permitted    Maximum                                 Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs                                              Sign         Area                 Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                                                               Structures   (Square    Number    Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                                                            Feet)                Of Way
C-3 general commercial:
   Identification signs:                                                                                              
                                                                            2 per foot
                                                                            for first
                                                                            100 linear
                                                                            feet of    1 per 100
                                                                            frontage,  linear
                                                                            then 1 per feet of
                                                                            each       frontage;
                                                                            additional 3 signs
                                                                            linear     per
                                                                            foot;      premises
                                                               Freestanding maximum    maximum;             40 feet
                                                                            500        signs
                                                                            aggregate  shall be
                                                                            square     separated
                                                                            feet per   by at                        No
      Business, retail or office                                      premises;  least 100 0                  flashing  None
                                                                            no sign    feet
                                                                            shall
                                                                            exceed 200
                                                                            square
                                                                            feet
                                                                            10 percent
                                                                            of any 1
                                                                            building   2 per
                                                                            wall, or   business             Below
                                                               Wall         400        per                  eaves
                                                                            aggregate  street               or
                                                                            square     frontage             parapet
                                                                            feet,
                                                                            whichever
                                                                            is less
                                                                                       1 per                Below
      Directory                                          Wall         10 per     building  0          eaves   No        None
                                                                            sign       entrance             or      flashing
                                                                                                            parapet
                                                                            20 per     4 per                On      Internal,
      Freestanding canopy                                Wall         sign       canopy    0          canopy  no        None
                                                                                                            fascia  flashing
                                                                            300 per    1 per
                                                               Freestanding sign       street               40 feet
                                                                                       frontage
      Shopping center or multiple tenant building                                1 per     0          Below   No        None
                                                                            100 per    business             eaves   flashing
                                                               Wall         sign       per                  or
                                                                                       street               parapet
                                                                                       frontage
                                                               Freestanding                                 40 feet
      Used auto sales when accessory to a new auto sales              250 per    1 per                Below   No
dealership                                                     Wall         sign       premises  0          eaves   flashing  None
                                                                                                            or
                                                                                                            parapet
                                                                                       1 per                Below
                                                               Wall                    business             eaves   No
      All applications                                   nameplate    6 per sign per       0          or      flashing  None
                                                                                       street               parapet
                                                                                       frontage
   Directional signs:                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                    Internal,
                                                               Freestadingl                                 10 feet no        None
                                                                                       Not                          flashing
      All applications                                                6 per sign specified 0          Below
                                                               Wall                                         eaves   No         
                                                                                                            or      flashing
                                                                                                            parapet
   Drive-up automated bank teller (standalone)              Freestanding 75 per     1 per     0          20      No        None
                                                                            sign       premises                     flashing
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 44-23, 9-18-2023)
16-15-11-9: C-4 DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                                      Permitted    Maximum                              Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs                     Sign         Area              Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                                      Structures   (Square Number    Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                                   Feet)             Of Way
C-4 downtown commercial:
Identification signs:                                                                        
                                      Freestanding 100 per 1 per     0          25 feet
                                                   sign    premises
                                      Projecting   25 per  1 per     60 inches
      Business, retail or office             sign    business             Below   No        None
                                                           per                  eaves   flashing
                                      Wall         100 per street    0          or
                                                   sign    frontage             parapet

                                      Freestanding                              5 feet
                                                   10 per  1 per                Below   No
      Directory                 Wall         sign    building  0          eaves   flashing  None
                                                           entrance             or
                                                                                parapet
                                                           1 per                Below
                                      Wall         6 per   business             eaves   No
      All applications          nameplate    sign    per       0          or      flashing  None
                                                           street               parapet
                                                           frontage
   Directional signs:                                                                     
                                                                                        Internal,
                                      Freestanding                              10 feet no
                                                   6 per   Not                          flashing
      All applications                       sign    specified 0          Below             None
                                      Wall                                      eaves   No
                                                                                or      flashing
                                                                                parapet
   Drive-up automated bank teller  Freestanding 75 per  1 per     0          20 feet No        None
(standalone)                                       sign    premises                     flashing
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 44-23, 9-18-2023)
16-15-11-10: C-5 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                                Permitted    Maximum                                Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs               Sign         Area                Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                                Structures   (Square   Number    Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                             Feet)               Of Way
C-5 central business:
Identification signs:                                                                    
                                                       1,
                                                       limited
                                                       to street
                                                       frontages
                                                       along
                                                       Locust
                                                       and Iowa
                                                       Streets,
                                                       along 7th
                                                       Street
                                Freestanding 100 per   between              25 feet
                                             sign      Locust
                                                       Street
                                                       and the
                                                       alley,
                                                       and along
                                                       9th
                                                       Street
                                                       between
                                                       Main and
                                                       Iowa      0
                                                       Streets
                                Ground
                                monument,
                                having a
                                cast iron
                                base and
                                sign body              1 per
                                constructed            business
      Business, retail or of stone,              along                10      No
office                          cast stone,            Main                 feet,   flashing  None
                                or terra     18 per    Street               5.5
                                cotta. Wood, sign      frontage             feet
                                vinyl,                 between              wide
                                aluminum               4th and
                                sheeting in            10th
                                excess of 5            Streets
                                square feet,
                                synthetic
                                wood, and
                                EIFS are
                                prohibited
                                                       1 per
                                             25 per    business
                                Projecting   sign      per       60 inches
                                                       street
                                                       frontage
                                                       Unlimited
                                             10% of    per
                                             the area  street               Below
                                             of the    frontage,            eaves
                                             building  so long              or
                                             wall or   as the               parapet
                                Wall         100       aggregate 18 inches
                                             square    square
                                             feet per  footage
                                             business, does not
                                             whichever exceed
                                             is        the
                                             greater   allowed
                                                       area
                                             20 per    2 per                On      Internal,
      Freestanding canopy Wall         sign      canopy    0          canopy  no
                                                                            fascia  flashing
                                                       1 per                Below             None
                                Wall         6 per     business             eaves   No
      All applications    nameplate    sign      per       0          or      flashing
                                                       street               parapet
                                                       frontage
   Directional signs:                                                                 
                                                                                    Internal,
                                Freestanding                                10 feet no
                                             6 per     Not                          flashing
      All applications                 sign      specified 0          Below             None
                                Wall                                        eaves   No
                                                                            or      flashing
                                                                            parapet
 
(Ord. 24-13, 5-20-2013; amd. Ord. 34-25, 7-21-2025)
16-15-11-11: CS COMMERCIAL SERVICE AND WHOLESALE DISTRICT:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                                               Permitted    Maximum                                 Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs                              Sign         Area                 Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                                               Structures   (Square    Number    Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                                            Feet)                Of Way
CS commercial service and wholesale:
Identification signs:                                                                                    
                                                            2 per foot
                                                            for first
                                                            100 linear
                                                            feet of    1 per 100
                                                            frontage,  linear
                                                            then 1 per feet of
                                                            each       frontage;
                                                            additional 3 signs
                                                            linear     per
                                                            foot;      premises
                                               Freestanding maximum    maximum;             40 feet
                                                            500        signs
                                                            aggregate  shall be
                                                            square     separated
                                                            feet per   by at                        No
      Business, retail or office                      premises;  least 100 0                  flashing  None
                                                            no sign    feet
                                                            shall
                                                            exceed 200
                                                            square
                                                            feet
                                                            10 percent
                                                            of any 1
                                                            building   2 per
                                                            wall, or   business             Below
                                               Wall         400        per                  eaves
                                                            aggregate  street               or
                                                            square     frontage             parapet
                                                            feet,
                                                            whichever
                                                            is less
                                                                       1 per                Below
      Directory                          Wall         10 per     building  0          eaves   No        None
                                                            sign       entrance             or      flashing
                                                                                            parapet
                                                            300 per    1 per
                                               Freestanding sign       street               40 feet
                                                                       frontage
      Shopping center or multiple tenant                         1 per     0          Below   No        None
building                                                    100 per    business             eaves   flashing
                                               Wall         sign       per                  or
                                                                       street               parapet
                                                                       frontage
                                                                       1 per                Below
                                               Wall                    business             eaves   No
      All applications                   nameplate    6 per sign per       0          or      flashing  None
                                                                       street               parapet
                                                                       frontage
   Directional signs:                                                                                 
                                                                                                    Internal,
                                               Freestanding                                 10 feet no
                                                                       Not                          flashing
      All applications                                6 per sign specified 0          Below             None
                                               Wall                                         eaves   No
                                                                                            or      flashing
                                                                                            parapet
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-11-12: CR COMMERCIAL RECREATION DISTRICT:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                                               Permitted    Maximum                                 Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs                              Sign         Area                 Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                                               Structures   (Square    Number    Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                                            Feet)                Of Way
CR commercial recreation:
Identification signs:                                                                                    
                                                            2 per foot
                                                            for first
                                                            100 linear
                                                            feet of    1 per 100
                                                            frontage,  linear
                                                            then 1 per feet of
                                                            each       frontage;
                                                            additional 3 signs
                                                            linear     per
                                                            foot;      premises
                                               Freestanding maximum    maximum;             40 feet
                                                            500        signs
                                                            aggregate  shall be
                                                            square     separated
                                                            feet per   by at                        No
      Business, retail or office                      premises;  least 100 0                  flashing  None
                                                            no sign    feet
                                                            shall
                                                            exceed 200
                                                            square
                                                            feet
                                                            10 percent
                                                            of any 1
                                                            building   2 per
                                                            wall, or   business             Below
                                               Wall         400        per                  eaves
                                                            aggregate  street               or
                                                            square     frontage             parapet
                                                            feet,
                                                            whichever
                                                            is less
                                                            20 per     4 per                On      Internal,
      Freestanding canopy                Wall         sign       canopy    0          canopy  no        None
                                                                                            fascia  flashing
                                                            300 per    1 per
                                               Freestanding sign       street               40 feet
                                                                       frontage
      Shopping center or multiple tenant                         1 per     0          Below   No        None
building                                                    100 per    business             eaves   flashing
                                               Wall         sign       per                  or
                                                                       street               parapet
                                                                       frontage
                                                                       1 per                Below
                                               Wall                    business             eaves   No
      All applications                   nameplate    6 per sign per       0          or      flashing  None
                                                                       street               parapet
                                                                       frontage
   Directional signs:                                                                                  
                                                                                                    Internal,
                                               Freestanding                                 10 feet no
                                                                       Not                          flashin
      All applications                                6 per sign specified 0          Below             None
                                               Wall                                         eaves   No
                                                                                            or      flashing
                                                                                            parapet
   Drive-up automated bank teller (standalonFreestanding 75 per     1 per     0          20      No        None
                                                            sign       premises                     flashing
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 44-23, 9-18-2023)
16-15-11-13: ID INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                                                             Permitted    Maximum                                Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs                                            Sign         Area                Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                                                             Structures   (Square Number      Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                                                          Feet)               Of Way
ID institutional:
Identification signs:                                                                                                 
                                                                                  1 per                  Below
      Directory                                        Wall         10 per  building    0          eaves   No        None
                                                                          sign    entrance               or      flashing
                                                                                                         parapet
                                                                                  2 per
                                                                                  street
                                                                                  frontage or
                                                             Freestanding         1 per                  10 feet
                                                                                  building,
                                                                                  whichever
                                                                                  is less
      Specify name, profession, occupants, or hours of              100 per restrictive                    No
operation                                                                 sign    2 per       0                  flashing  None
                                                                                  building or
                                                                                  as                     Below
                                                                                  otherwise              eaves
                                                             Wall                 limited by             or
                                                                                  ordinance              parapet
                                                                                  approving
                                                                                  the
                                                                                  district
                                                                                  1 per                  Below
      All applications                                 Wall         6 per   business    0          eaves   No        None
                                                             nameplate    sign    per street             or      flashing
                                                                                  frontage               parapet
   Directional signs:                                                                                              
                                                                                                                 Internal,
                                                             Freestanding                                10 feet no
                                                                          6 per   Not                            flashing
      All applications                                              sign    specified   0          Below             None
                                                             Wall                                        eaves   No
                                                                                                         or      flashing
                                                                                                         parapet
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-11-14: LI, HI, AND MHI INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
            Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
On Premises Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Signs       Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
                       Feet)          Of Way
                                      Permitted    Maximum                                 Permitted Permitted
On Premises Signs                     Sign         Area                 Projection         Lighting  Mechanical
                                      Structures   (Square    Number    Over Right Height  Type      Motion
                                                   Feet)                Of Way
LI, HI, and MHI industrial:
Identification signs:                                                                           
                                                   2 per foot
                                                   for first
                                                   100 linear
                                                   feet of    1 per 100
                                                   frontage,  linear
                                                   then 1 per feet of
                                                   each       frontage;
                                                   additional 3 signs
                                                   linear     per
                                                   foot;      premises
                                      Freestanding maximum    maximum;             40 feet
                                                   500        signs
                                                   aggregate  shall be
                                                   square     separated
                                                   feet per   by at                        No
      Business, retail or office             premises;  least 100 0                  flashing  None
                                                   no sign    feet
                                                   shall
                                                   exceed 200
                                                   square
                                                   feet
                                                   10 percent
                                                   of any 1
                                                   building   2 per
                                                   wall, or   business             Below
                                      Wall         400        per                  eaves
                                                   aggregate  street               or
                                                   square     frontage             parapet
                                                   feet,
                                                   whichever
                                                   is less
                                                              1 per                Below
      Directory                 Wall         9 per sign building  0          eaves   No        None
                                                              entrance             or      flashing
                                                                                   parapet
                                                   20 per     4 per                On      Internal,
      Freestanding canopy       Wall         sign       canopy    0          canopy  no        None
                                                                                   fascia  flashing
                                                   300 per    1 per
                                      Freestanding sign       street               40 feet
                                                              frontage
      Multiple tenant building                          1 per     0          Below   No        None
                                                   100 per    business             eaves   flashing
                                      Wall         sign       per                  or
                                                              street               parapet
                                                              frontage
                                                              1 per                Below
                                      Wall                    business             eaves   No
      All applications          nameplate    6 per sign per       0          or      flashing  None
                                                              street               parapet
                                                              frontage
   Directional signs:                                                                        
                                                                                           Internal,
                                      Freestanding                                 10 feet no
                                                              Not                          flashing
      All applications                       9 per sign specified 0          Below             None
                                      Wall                                         eaves   No
                                                                                   or      flashing
                                                                                   parapet
   Drive-up automated bank teller  Freestanding 75 per     1 per     0          20      No        None
(standalone)                                       sign       premises                     flashing
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 44-23, 9-18-2023)
16-15-12: OFF PREMISES SIGNS:
             Permitted  Maximum        Minimum                       Permitted
Off Premises Sign       Area                           Permitted     Mechanical
Signs        Structures (Square Height Setback Spacing Lighting Type Motion
                        Feet)
                                                                    Permitted    Maximum          Minimum                Permitted Permitted
Off Premises Signs                                                  Sign         Area                                    Lighting  Mechanical
                                                                    Structures   (Square  Height  Setback  Spacing       Type      Motion
                                                                                 Feet)
C-2 neighborhood shopping center, and C-2A mixed use neighborhood:
                                                                    Freestanding          25 feet 20 feet
                                                                                                  from
                                                                                                  property As determined
   Off premises signs shall be permitted only by conditional use              300 per  Below   line;    by zoning     No
permit                                                              Wall         sign     eaves   100 feet board of      flashing  None
                                                                                          or      from     adjustment
                                                                                          parapet historic
                                                                                                  district

C-3 general commercial, C-4 downtown commercial, and CS commercial service and wholesale:
                                                                                 750 feet
                                                                                 per
                                                                                 sign,
                                                                                 but only
                                                                                 300 feet
                                                                                 per sign
                                                                                 if
                                                                                 within
                                                                    Freestanding 200 feet 50 feet
                                                                                 of a                      Spacing
                                                                                 historic                  between any 2
                                                                                 district                  off premises
                                                                                 and not                   sign
                                                                                 abutting                  structures,
                                                                                 a state                   which are
                                                                                 or                        located on
                                                                                 federal                   either side
                                                                                 highway                   of federal
                                                                                                           aid primary
                                                                                                           highway(s),
                                                                                                           and oriented
                                                                                                           toward said
                                                                                                           highway(s)
                                                                                                           will be no
                                                                                                           less than 750
                                                                                                           feet, and
                                                                                                           spacing
                                                                                                           between any 2
                                                                                                           off premises
                                                                                                  100 feet sign
                                                                                                  from     structures,   No
   All off premises signs                                                                      historic which are     flashing  None
                                                                                                  district located on
                                                                                                           either side
                                                                                                           of all other
                                                                                                           city street
                                                                                                           (s) will be
                                                                                                           no less than
                                                                                          Below            500 feet. A
                                                                                 300 per  eaves            linear
                                                                    Wall         sign     or               measurement
                                                                                          parapet          perpendicular
                                                                                                           to the
                                                                                                           centerline of
                                                                                                           the roadway
                                                                                                           (s) will
                                                                                                           apply to
                                                                                                           determine
                                                                                                           required
                                                                                                           distance and
                                                                                                           is taken from
                                                                                                           the nearest
                                                                                                           point of each
                                                                                                           structure









CR commercial recreation:
                                                                    Freestanding          50 feet          Spacing
                                                                                                           between any 2
                                                                                                           off premises
                                                                                                           sign
                                                                                                           structures,
                                                                                                           which are
                                                                                                           located on
                                                                                                           either side
                                                                                                           of federal
                                                                                                           aid primary
                                                                                                           highway(s),
                                                                                                           and oriented
                                                                                                           toward said
                                                                                                           highway(s)
                                                                                 750 feet                  will be no
                                                                                 per                       less than 750
                                                                                 sign,                     feet, and
                                                                                 but only                  spacing
                                                                                 300 feet                  between any 2
                                                                                 per sign                  off premises
                                                                                 if                        sign
                                                                                 within   Below   100 feet structures,
   All off premises signs                                                     200 feet eaves   from     which are     No        None
                                                                    Wall         of a     or      historic located on    flashing
                                                                                 historic parapet district either side
                                                                                 district                  of all other
                                                                                 not                       city street
                                                                                 abutting                  (s) will be
                                                                                 a state                   no less than
                                                                                 or                        500 feet. A
                                                                                 federal                   linear
                                                                                 highway                   measurement
                                                                                                           perpendicular
                                                                                                           to the
                                                                                                           centerline of
                                                                                                           the roadway
                                                                                                           (s) will
                                                                                                           apply to
                                                                                                           determine
                                                                                                           required
                                                                                                           distance and
                                                                                                           is taken from
                                                                                                           the nearest
                                                                                                           point of each
                                                                                                           structure

LI light industrial, HI heavy industrial, and MHI modified heavy industrial
                                                                    Freestanding          50 feet          Spacing
                                                                                                           between any 2
                                                                                                           off premises
                                                                                                           sign
                                                                                                           structures,
                                                                                                           which are
                                                                                                           located on
                                                                                                           either side
                                                                                                           of federal
                                                                                                           aid primary
                                                                                                           highway(s),
                                                                                                           and oriented
                                                                                                           toward said
                                                                                                           highway(s)
                                                                                 750 feet                  will be no
                                                                                 per sign                  less than 750
                                                                                 but only                  feet, and
                                                                                 300 feet                  spacing
                                                                                 per sign                  between any 2
                                                                                 if                        off premises
                                                                                 within                    sign
                                                                                 200 feet Below   100 feet structures,
   All off premises signs                                                     of a     eaves   from     which are     No        None
                                                                    Wall         historic or      historic located on    flashing
                                                                                 district parapet district either side
                                                                                 and not                   of all other
                                                                                 abutting                  city street
                                                                                 a state                   (s) will be
                                                                                 or                        no less than
                                                                                 federal                   500 feet. A
                                                                                 highway                   linear
                                                                                                           measurement
                                                                                                           perpendicular
                                                                                                           to the
                                                                                                           centerline of
                                                                                                           the roadway
                                                                                                           (s) will
                                                                                                           apply to
                                                                                                           determine
                                                                                                           required
                                                                                                           distance and
                                                                                                           is taken from
                                                                                                           the nearest
                                                                                                           point of each
                                                                                                           structure
 
Note: Off premises sign spacing requirements shall be measured perpendicular to
the centerline of the street which the sign is oriented toward, between the
closest point on each sign structure.
(Ord. 2-10, 1-19-2010)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4369.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/906b9a48d34050d32cbe93a6195e4e4fe055c31e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4371.gif]
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-13:SIGNS IN HISTORIC DISTRICTS:
On Premises Permitted  Maximum                          Permitted Permitted
Signs In    Sign       Area           Projection        Lighting  Mechanical
Historic    Structures (Square Number Over Right Height Type      Motion
Districts              Feet)          Of Way
On                     Maximum
Premises  Permitted    Area                  Projection         Permitted Permitted
Signs In  Sign         (Square Number        Over Right Height  Lighting  Mechanical
Historic  Structures   Feet)                 Of Way             Type      Motion
Districts
          Freestanding 8 per   1 per         0          6 feet
          Projecting   sign    business      60 inches  Below   External
OR        Wall                 office                   eaves   only, no  None
          Wall                 1 per         0          or      flashing
          nameplate    6       business                 parapet

          Freestanding 32 per                           10 feet
                       sign
          Projecting   16 per                                   External
OS        Wall         sign    1 per         0          Below   only, no  None
                               business                 eaves   flashing
          Wall                                          or
          nameplate    6                                parapet

          Freestanding 8 per   1 per         0          6 feet
          Projecting   sign    business      40 inches  Below   External
OC        Wall                 office                   eaves   only, no  None
          Wall                 1 per         0          or      flashing
          nameplate    6       business                 parapet

          Freestanding n/a
          Projecting           1 per         40 inches
                       16 per  business per             Below
C-1       Wall         sign    street                   eaves   External
                               frontage      0          or      only, no  None
          Wall                 1 per                    parapet flashing
          nameplate    6       business

          Freestanding n/a
          Projecting           1 per         40 inches
                       40 per  business per             Below
C-2       Wall         sign    street                   eaves   External
                               frontage      0          or      only, no  None
          Wall                 1 per                    parapet flashing
          nameplate    6       business

          Freestanding n/a
          Projecting           1 per         40 inches
                       40 per  business per             Below
C-2A      Wall         sign    street                   eaves   External
                               frontage      0          or      only, no  None
          Wall                 1 per                    parapet flashing
          nameplate    6       business

                               1 per street
          Freestanding         frontage per             40 feet
                               multi-tenant
                       100 per building
                       sign    1 per                            External
C-3       Wall                 business per  0                  only, no  None
                               street                   Below   flashing
                               frontage                 eaves
                                                        or
          Wall         6       1 per                    parapet
          nameplate            business

          Freestanding n/a
          Projecting   25 per  1 per         60 inches
                       sign    business per             Below
C-4                    100 per street                   eaves   External
          Wall         sign    frontage                 or      only, no  None
                                             0          parapet flashing
          Wall         6       1 per
          nameplate            business
          Freestanding n/a
          Projecting   25 per  1 per         60 inches
                       sign    business per             Below
C-5                    100 per street                   eaves   External
          Wall         sign    frontage                 or      only, no  None
                                             0          parapet flashing
          Wall         6       1 per
          nameplate            business
          Freestanding 100 per                          40 feet
          Wall         sign    1 per                    Below   External
CS                             business per  0          eaves   only, no  None
          Wall         6       street                   or      flashing
          nameplate            frontage                 parapet

          Freestanding n/a
          Projecting   100 per 1 per street  60 inches  Below
CR        Wall         sign    frontage                 eaves   External
          Wall                 1 per         0          or      only, no  None
          nameplate    6       business                 parapet flashing

          Freestanding         1 per street             25 feet
                               frontage
                       100 per 1 per
          Wall         sign    business per                     External
LI, HI,                        street        0          Below   only, no  None
MHI                            frontage                 eaves   flashing
                                                        or
          Wall         6       1 per                    parapet
          nameplate            business

          Freestanding         As per                   10 feet
                       100 per institutional
          Wall         sign    district                 Below   External
ID                             regulations   0          eaves   only, no  None
                                                        or      flashing
          Wall         6       1 per                    parapet
          nameplate            business

          Freestanding 8 per   1             0          6 feet
R-1, R-2, Projecting   sign                  60 inches  Below   External
R-2A, R-  Wall         6 per                            eave or Only: No  None
3 & R-4*  Wall         sign    1             0          parapet Flashing
          Nameplate
*   Signs in Residential zones allowed for (1) Education or Religious Institutions
or (2) Real Estate Development or Subdivision Identification.
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 16-22, 4-18-2022)
16-15-14: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Any sign which becomes a nonconforming sign on the effective date hereof or
which becomes a nonconforming sign at any future date shall be regulated
according to the rules set forth in section
16-4-6 of this title, provided that no alteration, improvement or other change,
except changes to the sign panel that do not result in changes to the sign
cabinet, may be made to such nonconforming sign that will increase its level of
nonconformity. In the event that such nonconforming sign, or panels or portions
thereof shall be removed, for a period exceeding six (6) months, or if the use
to which the nonconforming sign pertains is changed, any replacement sign shall
be made to conform to the maximum area, number, allowable structure type,
protection, height, lighting and motion requirements for signs permitted in the
zoning district. A nonconforming sign may be altered to reduce its level of
nonconformity. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-15: MAINTENANCE:
All signs and sign support structures, together with all of their supports,
braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in repair and in a proper state of
preservation. The display surface of all signs shall be kept neatly painted or
posted at all times. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-16: DISCONTINUED OR ABANDONED SIGNS:
Signs which are not properly maintained as determined by the building official
or which advertise a use which has been abandoned or discontinued shall be
removed by the property owner within ninety (90) days after abandonment of the
principal use or may thereafter be removed by the building official with such
removal expense charged to the property owner. Signs that meet the definition
of "painted ghost wall sign" shall not be considered discontinued or abandoned.
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-17: MESSAGE SUBSTITUTION:
A noncommercial message of any type may be substituted for any permitted
commercial message or permitted noncommercial message, provided, that the sign
structure is legal without consideration of the sign copy. Such substitution of
message may be made without any additional approval or permitting. This
provision prevails over any more specific provision to the contrary within this
chapter. The purpose of this provision is to prevent any inadvertent favoring
of commercial speech over noncommercial speech, or favoring of any particular
noncommercial message over any other noncommercial message. This provision does
not create a right to increase the total amount of signage on a parcel, nor
does it affect the requirement that a sign structure or mounting device be
properly permitted. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-18: PROJECTING SIGNS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation shall place and/or
maintain any projecting sign over the public right of way without first
obtaining a permit therefor, complying with all applicable local, state and
federal regulations, providing acceptable proof of liability insurance and
paying the permit fee, all as provided in this title.
   B.   Application For Permit: An application for a permit for a projecting
sign shall be filed with the building official on a form provided by the
building official not less than seven (7) days prior to the date the projecting
sign is to be installed.
   C.   Permit Fee: The applicant shall pay the permit fee to the city for each
projecting sign at the time of the filing of an application for each projecting
sign.
   D.   Hold Harmless: The permit holder shall enter into a hold harmless
agreement with the city for any projecting sign prior to issuance of the
permit, which shall require that the permit holder pay on behalf of the city
all sums which the city shall be obligated to pay by reason of any liability
imposed upon the city for damages of any kind resulting from the placement or
maintenance of a sign, whether sustained by any person or persons, caused by
accident or otherwise, and shall defend at its own expense and on behalf of the
city any claim against the city arising out of the placement or maintenance of
said sign.
   E.   Insurance: Prior to the issuance of a permit for a projecting sign, the
applicant shall furnish proof of insurance to the building official as follows:
      1.   Coverage shall include such comprehensive public liability and
property damage insurance written by an insurer licensed to do business in the
state of Iowa as shall protect the city during the life of the projecting sign
from claims or damages, personal injury, including accidental death, as well as
claims for property damages, which may arise from the existence of the sign in
such a manner as to impose liability on the city, and the amounts of such
insurance shall be as required by the city manager.
      2.   Such insurance shall name the city as an additional insured.
      3.   Each owner and/or occupant of the premises required to furnish proof
of insurance shall also maintain on file with the building official a
certificate evidencing that the insurer will give the building official thirty
(30) days' written notice prior to termination or cancellation of the required
insurance.
      4.   Upon notice of cancellation or termination of insurance, or
expiration of proof of insurance, the building official shall notify, by
certified mail, the owner and/or occupant of the premises for which proof of
insurance is required that the projecting sign or signs are in violation of
this chapter and shall be removed by the date stated in the notice.
   F.   Exclusion: The permit holder shall agree in writing prior to the
issuance of a permit to the following:
      1.   The permit holder, by acceptance of a permit, agrees that the permit
granted does not constitute approval of the design, construction, repair or
maintenance of any projecting sign.
      2.   The permit holder, by acceptance of a permit, waives all claims or
defenses against the city in the event of claim asserted for death, personal
injuries and/or property damage against the permit holder arising out of or in
any way connected with the existence, design, construction, repair or
maintenance of projecting sign or signs for which a permit is issued.
   G.   Revocation:
      1.   A permit granted under this chapter shall be revocable upon ten (10)
days' written notice to the permit holder at the convenience of the city. A
permit also may be revoked or not renewed for failure to comply with the
requirements of this chapter or any other applicable legal requirements, or for
fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in connection with an application for a
permit.
      2.   In the event of such revocation, the building official shall notify
the permit holder in writing of such revocation or refusal of renewal,
specifying the reasons therein for such refusal. The permit holder or permit
holder's successor in interest may petition the city council for a hearing on
such refusal within thirty (30) days of receipt of the building official's
letter.
   H.   Removal Of Sign: The permit holder, within thirty (30) days of receipt
of a written notice from the building official to remove a projecting sign,
shall at the permit holder's expense remove such sign. In the event of the
permit holder's failure to do so, the city shall remove the sign at the permit
holder's expense and dispose of the same. The permit holder shall agree in
writing prior to the issuance of a permit to make no claim against the city or
its agents for damages resulting from the removal of said sign.
   I.   Damaged; Threat To Safety: Nothing in this section shall preclude the
building official from giving immediate notice to a permit holder to remove a
projecting sign in the event such sign has been damaged or has been moved or
otherwise placed to cause an immediate threat to public safety. In the event
the sign is not removed within seven (7) days of such notification, the
building official shall remove such sign as provided in subsection H of this
section. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-19: FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Permit Fees: The fee for each sign permit shall be as adopted by the
city council.
   B.   Expiration Of Plan Review: Applications for which no permit is issued
within one hundred eighty (180) days following the date of application shall
expire by limitation, and plans and other data submitted for review may
thereafter be returned to the applicant or destroyed by the building official.
The building official may extend the time for action by the applicant for a
period not exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days upon request by the
applicant showing that circumstances beyond the control of the applicant have
prevented action from being taken. No application shall be extended more than
once. In order to renew action on an application after expiration, the
applicant shall resubmit plans and pay a new plan review fee.
   C.   Work Commenced Without Permit:
      1.   Investigation: Whenever any work for which a permit is required by
this title has been commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special
investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work.
      2.   Fee: A penalty fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall be
collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The penalty
fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee required by this title. The
payment of such penalty fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with
all other provisions of this title nor from any penalty prescribed by law.
   D.   Fee Refunds:
      1.   The building official may authorize the refunding of any fee paid
hereunder which was erroneously paid or collected.
      2.   The building official may authorize the refunding of not more than
eighty percent (80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a
permit issued in accordance with this title.
      3.   The building official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee
paid except upon written application filed by the original permittee not later
than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of fee payment. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-15-20: DESIGN, GENERALLY:
   A.   General: Signs and sign structures shall be designed and constructed to
resist wind as specified in this section. All bracing systems shall be designed
and constructed to transfer lateral forces to the foundations. For signs on
buildings the dead and lateral loads shall be transmitted through the
structural frame of the building to the ground in such a manner as not to
overstress any of the elements thereof.
   B.   Overturning: The overturning momentum produced from lateral forces
shall in no case exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the dead load resisting moment.
Uplift due to overturning shall be adequately resisted by proper anchorage to
the ground or to the structural frame of the building. The weight of earth
superimposed over footings may be used in determining the dead load resisting
moment. Such earth shall be carefully placed and thoroughly compacted.
   C.   Wind Loads: Signs and sign structures shall be designed and constructed
to resist wind forces as specified in the building code.
   D.   Vertical Load: Vertical design loads, except roof live loads, shall be
assumed to be acting simultaneously with the wind or seismic loads.
   E.   Allowable Stresses: The design of wood, concrete, steel or aluminum
members shall conform to the requirements of the building code. Loads, both
vertical and horizontal, exerted on the soil shall not produce stresses
exceeding those specified in the building code.
   F.   Compliance With Building Code: The design of wood, concrete, steel or
aluminum members shall conform to the requirements of the building code. Loads,
both vertical and horizontal, exerted on the soil shall not produce stresses
exceeding those specified in the building code.
   G.   Strength Of Rope Or Fasteners: The working stresses of wire rope and
its fastenings shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the ultimate
strength of the rope or fasteners.
   H.   Increase Of Working Stresses: Working stresses for wind combined with
dead loads may be increased as specified in the building code. (Ord. 52-09, 10-
19-2009)
16-15-21: CONSTRUCTION, GENERALLY:
   A.   General: The supports for all signs or sign structures shall be placed
in or upon private property and shall be securely built, constructed and
erected in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Materials: Materials of construction for signs and sign structures
shall be of the quality and grade as specified for buildings in the building
code. In all signs and sign structures the materials and details of
construction shall, in the absence of specified requirements, conform with the
following:
      1.   Steel shall be of such quality as to conform with IBC standard
"Material Specification For Structural Steel". Secondary members, when formed
integrally with the display surface, shall be not less than 0.024 inch in
thickness. When not formed integrally with the display surface, the minimum
thickness of the secondary members shall be 0.10 inch. The minimum thickness of
hot rolled steel members furnishing structural support for signs shall be one-
fourth inch (1/4"), except that, if galvanized, such members shall be not less
than one-eighth inch (1/8") thick. Steel pipes shall be of such quality as to
conform to UBC standard 27-1. Steel members may be connected with one
galvanized bolt, provided the connection is adequate to transfer the stresses
in the members.
      2.   Anchors and supports when of wood and embedded in the soil or within
six inches (6") of the soil, shall be of all heartwood of a durable species or
shall be pressure treated with an approved preservative. Such members shall be
marked or branded by an approved agency.
   C.   Restrictions On Combustible Materials:
      1.   Ground Signs: Ground signs may be constructed of any material
meeting the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Combination Signs, Roof Signs: Combination signs, roof signs, wall
signs, projecting signs and signs on marquees shall be constructed of
noncombustible materials, except as provided in subsection C3 of this section.
No combustible materials other than approved plastics shall be used in the
construction of electric signs.
      3.   Exceptions:
         a.   Roof signs may be constructed of unprotected combustible
materials on roofs of combustible construction.
         b.   Roof signs with a maximum surface area of fifty (50) square feet
and a maximum height of five feet (5') may be constructed of combustible
materials on roofs of any type of construction.
         c.   Nonelectric wall signs may be constructed of unprotected
combustible materials on walls permitted to be of unprotected combustible
construction.
         d.   Nonstructural trim and portable display surfaces may be of wood,
metal, approved plastics or any combination thereof.
   D.   Anchorage:
      1.   Members supporting unbraced signs shall be so proportioned that the
bearing loads imposed on the soil in either direction, horizontal or vertical,
shall not exceed the safe values. Braced ground signs shall be anchored to
resist the specified wind or seismic load acting in any direction. Anchors and
supports shall be designed for safe bearing loads on the soil and for an
effective resistance to pullout amounting to a force twenty five percent (25%)
greater than the required resistance to overturning. Anchors and supports shall
penetrate to a depth belowground greater than that of the frost line.
      2.   Signs attached to masonry, concrete or steel shall be safely and
securely fastened thereto by means of metal anchors, bolts or approved
expansion screws of sufficient size and anchorage to support safely the loads
applied.
      3.   No wooden blocks or plugs or anchors with wood used in connection
with screws or nails shall be considered proper anchorage, except in the case
of signs attached to wood framing.
      4.   No anchor or support of any sign shall be connected to, or supported
by, an unbraced parapet wall, unless such wall is designed in accordance with
the requirements for parapet walls specified for seismic zones in the building
code.
   E.   Sign Faces:
      1.   Sign faces in all types of signs may be made of metal, glass, wood,
fabric, or other approved materials.
      2.   Glass thickness and area limitations shall be as set forth in
section
16-15-23 of this chapter.
      3.   Sections of approved plastics on wall signs shall not exceed two
hundred twenty five (225) square feet in area, provided that sections of
approved plastics on signs other than wall signs may be of unlimited area if
approved by the building official.
      4.   Sections of approved plastics on wall signs shall be separated three
feet (3') laterally and six feet (6') vertically by the required exterior wall
construction, provided that sections of approved plastics on signs other than
wall signs may not be required to be separated if approved by the building
official.
   F.   Approved Plastics: The building official shall require that sufficient
technical data be submitted to substantiate the proposed use of any plastic
material and, if it is determined that the evidence submitted is satisfactory
for the use intended, the building official may approve its use. (Ord. 52-09,
10-19-2009)
16-15-22: PROJECTION AND CLEARANCE, GENERALLY:
   A.   General: Signs shall conform to the clearance and projection
requirement of this chapter and this section.
   B.   Clearance From High Voltage Power Lines: Signs shall be located not
less than six feet (6') horizontally or twelve feet (12') vertically from
overhead electrical conductors which are energized in excess of seven hundred
fifty (750) volts. The term "overhead conductors" as used in this section means
any electrical conductor, either bare or insulated, installed above the ground,
except such conductors as are enclosed in iron pipe or other material covering
of equal strength.
   C.   Clearance From Fire Escapes, Exits Or Standpipes: No sign or sign
structure shall be erected in such a manner that any portion of its surface or
supports will interfere in any way with the free use of any fire escape, exit
or standpipe.
   D.   Obstruction Of Openings:
      1.   No sign shall obstruct any openings to such an extent that light or
ventilation is reduced to a point below that required by this title.
      2.   Signs erected within five feet (5') of an exterior wall in which
there are openings within the area of the sign shall be constructed of
noncombustible material or approved plastics.
   E.   Projection Over Alleys: No sign or sign structure shall project into
any public alley.
   F.   Clearance From Streets: The horizontal clearance between a sign and the
curb line shall be not less than two feet (2').
   G.   Projection And Clearance:
      1.   A sign projecting more than two-thirds (2/3) of the distance from
the property line to the curb line shall be not less than twelve feet (12')
above the grade level directly below.
      2.   A sign projecting less than two-thirds (2/3) of the distance from
the property line to the curb line shall be not less than ten feet (10') above
the grade level directly below.
   H.   Maximum Size Of Exposed Glass Panel:
 
Size Of Exposed Glass Panel
Maximum   Maximum Area      Minimum Thickness Types Of Glass
Dimension (Square Feet)
   30"    500         1/8"              Plain, plate or wired
   45"    700         3/16"             Plain, plate or wired
   144"   3,600       1/4"              Plain, plate or wired
   144+   3,600+      1/4"              Wired
 
   I.   Minimum Sign Thickness:
 
Sign Projection Maximum Thickness
5 feet             2 feet
4 feet             2.5 feet
3 feet             3 feet
2 feet             3.5 feet
1 foot             4 feet
 
(Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-23: STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SIGN TYPES:
16-15-23-1: POLE SIGNS:
   A.   Pole signs shall be constructed of noncombustible material, except as
provided in section
16-15-21 of this chapter.
   B.   All supports of pole signs shall be placed upon private property and
shall be securely built, constructed and erected to conform with requirements
specified in section
16-15-21 of this chapter.
   C.   Projection of pole signs shall conform to the requirements of section
16-15-22 of this chapter. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-23-2: GROUND MONUMENT SIGNS:
   A.   Ground monument signs shall be constructed of any material meeting the
requirements of this chapter, except as provided in section
16-15-21 of this chapter.
   B.   Ground monument signs shall be designed in accordance with the
requirements specified in section
16-15-21 of this chapter.
   C.   Ground monument signs shall not project over public property. (Ord. 52-
09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-23-3: WALL SIGNS:
   A.   Wall signs shall be constructed of noncombustible material, except as
provided in section
16-15-21 of this chapter.
   B.   Wall signs shall be designed in conformance with the requirements
specified in section
16-15-21 of this chapter.
   C.   No wall sign shall have a projection over public property or beyond a
legal setback line greater than the distances specified in section
16-15-22 of this chapter.
   D.   No wall sign shall extend above any adjacent parapet or roof of the
existing building.
   E.   The thickness of that portion of a wall sign which projects over public
property or a legal setback line shall not exceed the maximum as set forth in
section
16-15-22 of this chapter. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-23-4: PROJECTING SIGNS:
   A.   Projecting signs shall be constructed of noncombustible materials,
except as specified in section
16-15-21 of this chapter.
   B.   Projecting signs shall be designed in accordance with the requirements
specified in section
16-15-21 of this chapter.
   C.   Signs may project over public property or a legal setback line a
distance determined by the clearance of the bottoms thereof above the level of
the sidewalk or grade immediately below, as set forth in section
16-15-22 of this chapter.
   D.   The thickness of a projecting sign exclusive of letters and trim shall
not exceed that set forth in section
16-15-22 of this chapter. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-23-5: COMBINATION SIGNS:
   A.   Combination signs shall be constructed of noncombustible materials,
except as specified in section
16-15-21 of this chapter.
   B.   The individual requirements of roof, projecting and pole signs shall be
applied for combination signs incorporating any or all of the requirements
specified in this chapter.
   C.   All supports of combination signs shall be placed in or upon private
property and shall be securely built, constructed and erected to conform with
the requirements specified in section
16-15-21 of this chapter.
   D.   Combination signs may project over public property or beyond a "legal
setback line" as specified in section
16-15-22 of this chapter.
   E.   The thickness of that portion of a combination sign which projects over
public property shall not exceed the maximum set forth in section
16-15-22 of this chapter. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-23-6: MARQUEE SIGNS:
Signs may be placed on, attached to, or constructed in a marquee. Such signs
shall, for the purpose of determining projection, clearance, height and
material, be considered a part of and shall meet the requirements for a marquee
as specified in the building code and this title. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-23-7: ELECTRIC SIGNS:
   A.   Electric signs shall be constructed of noncombustible material, except
as provided in section
16-15-21 of this chapter.
   B.   The enclosed shell of electric signs shall be watertight, except that
service holes fitted with covers shall be provided into each compartment of
such signs.
   C.   Electrical equipment used in connection with display signs shall be
installed in accordance with the electrical code.
   D.   Every electric sign projecting over any street or alley or public place
shall have painted or labeled on the surface of the sign the name of the sign
erector and date of erection. Such name and date shall be of sufficient size
and contrast to be readable from a reasonable distance at grade. Failure to
provide such name and date shall be grounds for rejection of the sign by the
building official. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
16-15-23-8: ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGNS:
   A.   Electronic message signs shall not be used or displayed in a way that
presents multiple screens within a single sign face, whether simulated or
actual.
   B.   During the static dwell time for a message, there shall be no
animation, movement (including moving messages, scrolling text, or full motion
or streaming video), segmented messages, or variation in light or color. Off
premises electronic message signs shall provide a static dwell time of at least
eight (8) seconds per message; on premises electronic message signs shall
provide a static dwell time of at least two (2) seconds per message.
   C.   During the transition time between messages, animation is permitted.
Animation may include moving messages, scrolling text, or variations in light
or color. Animation shall occur only during the transition time. Off premises
electronic message signs shall provide a transition time of no more than one
second between messages; on premises electronic message signs shall provide a
transition time of no more than two (2) seconds between messages.
   D.   Electronic message signs shall be limited to one per allowed
freestanding sign. (Ord. 52-09, 10-19-2009)
