Code of Ordinances
of the
CITY OF
DURANT, Iowa
Adopted July 26, 2021, by Ordinance No. 2021-03
Prepared By: Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT                          ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds   Ord. No. Date     Subject
          60.02(5); 69.03(3); 69.06
          (23); 69.10(3): 70.06(4);
Oct-21    78.07(7-12); 78.08;       2021-04  10-25-21 Golf Carts; Parking
          78.09; 78.10; 78.11;
          78.12; 78.13; 78.14
Jan-22    78.07(12)(B-C)            2021-05  12-13-21 Golf Carts
          76.08(6)                  2021-06  12-13-21 UTVs
Jul-22    Ch. 71                    2022-01  7-25-22  Automated Traffic
                                                      Enforcement
          91.10; 91.11              2022-02  7-11-22  Water Meters
          105.12                    2022-03  7-11-22  Yard Waste Site
          76.11                     2022-04  7-11-22  Utility Terrain Vehicles
May-24    105.12                    2022-05  12-19-22 Solid Waste Control
          63.04(3)(B); 63.04(5)(B)  2023-01  4-24-23  Speed Zones
          41.14(10)(A-E)            2023-02  9-25-23  Fireworks
          71.01(1-2)                2023-03  9-25-23  Automated Traffic
                                                      Enforcement
          78.04(2-3); 78.05; 78.10  2023-04  11-13-23 Golf Carts
          (4)
          Ch. 19                    2024-01  1-22-24  City Treasurer
          Ch. 172                   2024-02  2-26-24  Storm Water Utility
          78.05                     2024-03  3-11-24  Golf Carts - Operational
                                                      Hours
          Ch. 23                    2024-04  5-13-24  Community Center Board
Oct-24    60.02; 65.10              2024-05  10-14-24 Pedestrains' Right-of-Way
          136.04                    2024-06  10-14-24 Sidewalk Liability
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Durant, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the Code
of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council
or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases used
herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in
another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
2.   “City” means the city of Durant, Iowa.
3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Durant, Iowa.
4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of Durant,
Iowa.
6.   “Council” means the city council of Durant, Iowa.
7.   “County” means Cedar County, Iowa; unless otherwise specified as Muscatine
County, Iowa or Scott County, Iowa.
8.   “May” confers a power.
9.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.
10.   “Must” states a requirement.
11.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
12.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Durant, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
14.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
15.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
16.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge of
the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
17.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
18.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
19.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if not
inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its
residents, and each and every provision of this Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Council
or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not
specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$105.00 but not to exceed $855.00. The court may order imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days in lieu of a fine or in addition to a fine.† 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 4.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Durant, Iowa.† 2
 
Notes
2 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. A-1 adopting a charter for the City was passed and
  approved by the Council on January 1, 1976.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the official
records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies of the
charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1[3])
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
4.01 Municipal Infraction    4.04 Civil Citations
4.02 Environmental Violation 4.05 Alternative Relief
4.03 Penalties               4.06 Alternative Penalties
 
4.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted
by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.† 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
3 Ordinances, see Section
  1.14.
4.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa
or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the Department of
Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental violation.
However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable until the City
has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding the violation or
to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
4.03   PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
   A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
   B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
2.   Special Civil Penalties.
   A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment
standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an industrial user
is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each day a violation
exists or continues.
   B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
      (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the time
that the violation begins.
      (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
4.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may issue
a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy of the
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
1.   The name and address of the defendant.
2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
3.   The location and time of the infraction.
4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
6.   The time and place of court appearance.
7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
4.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[9])
4.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal citation
for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal penalties
are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit the
authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances by
criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[12])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings
 
5.01   OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in Durant
as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
   A.   Mayor
   B.   City Clerk
   C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be filed
with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])
4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[1a] and [3])
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open to
examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06   MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
1.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date, and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
2.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
3.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time and
place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The minutes
shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
4.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote of
either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting and
in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
5.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices at
any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
6.   Electronic Meetings. A meeting may be conducted by electronic means only
in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or impractical
and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has an
interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee was
elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this section,
for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or employee,
if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a cumulative
total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a utility
and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential City
utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and considered. A
person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for appointment to
the same office during the time for which the person was elected if, during
that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10   VACANCIES.
A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled in
accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11   GIFTS.
Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 10 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy. The
petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5 and 45.6)
6.05   FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of validity
thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the effect of
such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of such
petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by the
appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on the
ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
The Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is responsible
for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following shall
apply:
1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any City
officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If any
said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
3.   Change Fund. The finance officer is authorized to establish a change fund
for the purpose of making change without comingling other funds to meet the
requirements of the office.
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the proper
fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(545 IAC 2.5[2])
4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[3])
5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by
State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[4])
6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
   A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
   B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(545 IAC 2.5[5])
7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of each
month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation of
the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption by
the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other administrative
agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and administer budgets must
submit their budget proposals to the finance officer for inclusion in the
proposed City budget at such time and in such form as required by the Council.
3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
4.   Resolution Establishing Maximum Property Tax Dollars. The Council shall
adopt a resolution establishing the total maximum property tax dollars that may
be certified for levy that includes taxes for City government purposes under
Code of Iowa Section 384.1, for the City’s trust and agency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.6, Subsection 1, for the City’s emergency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.8, and for the levies authorized under Code of Iowa Section
384.12, Subsections 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, and 21, but excluding additions
approved at election under Code of Iowa Section 384.12, Subsection 19.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.15A)
   A.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
resolution before the date for adoption of the resolution and shall publish
notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days prior to the
hearing in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
   B.   If the City has an internet site, the notice shall also be posted and
clearly identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on
the date of the newspaper publication or public posting, as applicable.
Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on one or more
social media applications, the public hearing notice or an electronic link to
the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such account on the same day
as the publication of the notice. All of the following shall be included in the
notice:
      (1)   The sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property taxes
certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection and the
current fiscal year’s combined property tax levy rate for such amount that is
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (2)   The effective tax rate calculated using the sum of the current
fiscal year’s actual property taxes certified for levy under the levies
specified in this subsection, applicable to taxable property in the City other
than property used and assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (3)   The sum of the proposed maximum property tax dollars that may be
certified for levy for the budget year under the levies specified in this
subsection and the proposed combined property tax levy rate for such amount
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (4)   If the proposed maximum property tax dollars specified under
Subparagraph (3) exceed the current fiscal year’s actual property tax dollars
certified for levy specified in Subparagraph (1), a statement of the major
reasons for the increase.
Proof of publication shall be filed with and preserved by the County Auditor.
The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the public hearing
notice for cities and the form for the resolution to be adopted by the Council
under Paragraph C of this subsection.
   C.   At the public hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written
objections from any resident or property owner of the City. After all
objections have been received and considered, the Council may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed maximum property tax dollar amount for inclusion in the
resolution and shall adopt the resolution and file the resolution with the
County Auditor as required under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3.
   D.   If the sum of the maximum property tax dollars for the budget year
specified in the resolution under the levies specified in this subsection
exceeds 102 percent of the sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property
taxes certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection, the
Council shall be required to adopt the resolution by a two-thirds majority of
the membership of the Council.
   E.   If the City has an internet site, in addition to filing the resolution
with the Auditor under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3, the adopted
resolution shall be posted and clearly identified on the City’s internet site
for public viewing within 10 days of approval by the Council. The posted
resolution for a budget year shall continue to be accessible for public viewing
on the internet site along with resolutions posted for all subsequent budget
years.
5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may make
any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until adoption of the resolution
required under Subsection 4 of this section, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before March 31 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice. Proof of publication of the notice under this
subsection and a copy of the resolution adopted under Subsection 4 of this
section must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that the
budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days before
the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number of
copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt, by
resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing or the applicable amount specified in the resolution adopted
under Subsection 4 of this section. Two copies each of the detailed budget as
adopted and of the tax certificate must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(545 IAC 2.2)
2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(545 IAC 2.3)
3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(545 IAC 2.4)
4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority to
adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(545 IAC 2.4)
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained books
of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general ledger
controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
3.   Checks. Two signatures are required on all City checks. Checks shall be
prenumbered and signed by any two of the following: Clerk, Mayor, Deputy Clerk,
or Treasurer, following Council approval, except as provided by Subsection 5
hereof.
4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize the
Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not paid
promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. A copy of the annual report must be filed
with the Auditor of State not later than December 1 of each year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
 
8.01 Purpose                        8.06 Applications
8.02 Definitions                    8.07 Approval
8.03 Period of Partial Exemption    8.08 Exemption Repealed
8.04 Amounts Eligible for Exemption 8.09 Dual Exemptions Prohibited
8.05 Limitations
 
8.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from property
taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the new
construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities,
warehouses, and distribution centers.
8.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first year for
which the exemption is received.
2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used primarily for the
storage of goods that are intended for subsequent shipment to retail outlets.
Distribution center does not mean a building or structure used primarily to
store raw agricultural products, used primarily by a manufacturer to store
goods to be used in the manufacturing process, used primarily for the storage
of petroleum products, or used for the retail sale of goods.
3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and includes new
buildings and structures that are constructed as additions to existing
buildings and structures. New construction does not include reconstruction of
an existing building or structure that does not constitute complete replacement
of an existing building or structure or refitting of an existing building or
structure unless the reconstruction of an existing building or structure is
required due to economic obsolescence and the reconstruction is necessary to
implement recognized industry standards for the manufacturing and processing of
specific products and the reconstruction is required for the owner of the
building or structure to continue competitively to manufacture or process those
products, which determination shall receive prior approval from the City
Council.
4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of buildings
devoted primarily to research and development activities, including (but not
limited to) the design and production or manufacture of prototype products for
experimental use and corporate research services that do not have a primary
purpose of providing on-site services to the public.
5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public warehouse for
the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the Code of Iowa,
except that it does not mean a building or structure used primarily to store
raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at retail.
8.03   PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.
The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five years. The exemption shall also apply to the acquisition
of or improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real estate pursuant
to Section 427A.1[1e] of the Code of Iowa, unless the machinery or equipment is
part of the normal replacement or operating process to maintain or expand the
existing operational status.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.04   AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.
The amount of actual value added, which is eligible to be exempt from taxation,
shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
1.   For the first year, 75 percent.
2.   For the second year, 60 percent.
3.   For the third year, 45 percent.
4.   For the fourth year, 30 percent.
5.   For the fifth year, 15 percent.
8.05   LIMITATIONS.
The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of the
new construction added.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.06   APPLICATIONS.
An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value added
for which an exemption is claimed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the property
with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in which the value
added is first assessed for taxation.
2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.
8.07   APPROVAL.
A person may submit a proposal to the City Council to receive prior approval
for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. If the City Council
resolves to consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold a public
hearing thereon. Thereafter, at least 30 days after such hearing, the City
Council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for new
construction if the new construction is in conformance with City zoning. Such
prior approval shall not entitle the owner to exemption from taxation until the
new construction has been completed and found to be qualified real estate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
8.08   EXEMPTION REPEALED.
When in the opinion of the City Council continuation of the exemption granted
by this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the City Council may
repeal this chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their
expiration.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)
8.09   DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.
A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property tax
exemption authorized by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.6)
CHAPTER 10
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO.   ADOPTED           NAME OF AREA
Ord. E-3        June 23, 1992     Durant Urban Renewal Area #1
Ord. E-4        May 9, 1995       Durant Urban Renewal Area #2
Ord. 2008-UD-1  November 25, 2008 Durant Urban Renewal Area #3
Ord. 2009-UD-1  December 9, 2009  Durant Urban Renewal Area Amended #3
Schumacher 2017 November 28, 2016 Durant Urban Renewal Area Amended #1
 
CHAPTER 11
URBAN REVITALIZATION
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           NAME OF AREA
Ord. 2016-03  November 28, 2016
 
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
give direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments,
and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain the reasons
for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6[2])
5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered into
in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the City
where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law, ordinance,
or Council direction.
7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf of
the City.
8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City such
specialized and professional services not already available to the City. In
executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with this
Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been granted
by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be issued by
another municipal officer.
10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any absentee
officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
1.   Mayor Pro Tem
2.   Parks and Recreation Board
3.   Police Chief (subject to Council approval)
15.04   COMPENSATION.
The salary of the Mayor is $2,400.00 per year, payable quarterly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.05   VOTING.
The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the Mayor
Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from employment
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ, or
discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for overlap terms
of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 376.2)
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
2.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all funds,
and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16 and 384.38[1])
3.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
4.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 26)
5.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number, duties,
term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
6.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council shall
prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other elected
City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not become
effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the Council shall
not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any elected officer
during the months of November and December in the year of a regular City
election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes effective for
all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council members elected
at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become effective
in one of the following ways:
   A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
   B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
   C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
   D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or resolution,
a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage, and an
ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of the
ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of passage,
unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
1.   Regular Meetings. The time and place of the regular meetings of the
Council shall be fixed by resolution of the Council.
2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor or
upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and maintain
records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation, and term of office:
1.   City Clerk
2.   City Attorney
3.   City Treasurer
4.   Library Board of Trustees
5.   Community Center Board
6.   Parks and Recreation Board
7.   Durant Light Plant Board
8.   Tree Committee
9.   Board of Adjustment
10.   Planning and Zoning Commission
17.06   COMPENSATION.
The salary of each Council member is 1,200.00 per annum, payable quarterly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification                18.14 City Funds
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
At its first meeting in January following the regular City election, the
Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk to serve for a term of two
years. The Clerk shall receive such compensation as established by resolution
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
The Clerk or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk has
the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances, and
the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting, the Clerk shall cause
the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published. Such publication shall
include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall
show the gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 and 2])
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments, proceedings,
and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of Ordinances
or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City. The Clerk shall publish either the entire text or a
summary of all ordinances and amendments enacted by the City. “Summary” shall
mean a narrative description of the terms and conditions setting forth the main
points in a manner calculated to inform the public in a clear and
understandable manner the meaning of the ordinance and which shall provide the
public with sufficient notice to conform to the desired conduct accurate and
intelligible abstract or synopsis of the essential elements, a statement that
the description is a summary, the location and the normal business hours of the
office where the ordinance may be inspected, when it becomes effective, and the
full text of any provisions imposing fines, penalties, forfeitures, fees, or
taxes. Legal descriptions of property set forth in ordinances shall be
described in full, provided that maps or charts may be substituted for legal
descriptions when they contain sufficient detail to clearly define the area
with which the ordinance is concerned. The narrative description shall be
written in a clear and coherent manner and shall, to the extent possible, avoid
the use of technical or legal terms not generally familiar to the public. When
necessary to use technical or legal terms not generally familiar to the public,
the narrative description shall include definitions of those terms. The Clerk
shall authenticate all such measures except motions with said Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and place of publication when required.
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district, building
lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or limits to the
recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances and
codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents (or accurate
reproductions) for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions)
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the
final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions) relating to
real property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 and 5])
4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of any
record, paper, or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 and 5] and 380.7[5])
5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and petitions
directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall endorse
thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to offices
in the City government of their positions and the time at which they shall
assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   ELECTIONS.
The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13   CITY SEAL.
The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the Clerk
to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or proper
to authenticate.
18.14   CITY FUNDS.
The Clerk shall perform the following duties relating to City funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of the
City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
2.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received on behalf of the City and specify the date, from whom, and for what
purpose received.
3.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements, money
or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
4.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received from
special assessments.
5.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Treasurer to serve for a term
of two years.
19.02   COMPENSATION.
The Treasurer is paid $2,400 per year, payable on a quarterly basis.
19.03   DUTIES OF TREASURER.
The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
1.   Monthly Review. Review monthly financial statements and documents prepared
by the City Clerk, and discuss with Clerk any errors or omissions. Date and
stamp after review and return stamped copy to Clerk for auditor reference.
2.   Monthly Review of Journal Entries. Date and stamp after review and return
stamped copy to Clerk for auditor reference.
3.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
4.   The Treasurer shall perform such duties as may be directed by the Council,
the ordinances, or the laws of the State of Iowa, and shall transmit to his
successor in office, all books, papers, records, documents, and property
pertaining to the office.
(Chapter 19 – Ord. 2024-01 – May 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.05 Review and Comment
20.02 Attorney for City            20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.08 Prepare Documents
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve for an
indefinite term. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council. The City Attorney shall be located in
a convenient location to maintain necessary coordination with general
governmental activities of the municipality.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend all
actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to or
coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor or Clerk (if directed by the Council), or any Council member.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor, Council, or Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms,
and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 22
LIBRARY SERVICES
 
22.01 Library Board       22.04 Reports
22.02 Board Organization  22.05 Penalties
22.03 Duties of the Board
 
22.01   LIBRARY BOARD.
A Library Board advises the Council on the contract with Scott County to
provide library services. It shall also plan and oversee the gatherings,
maintenance, display materials about the City, and encourage other related
programs for the benefit and leisure time enjoyment of the City’s residents of
all ages to ensure any donated materials or monetary donations shall be used at
the Durant Library and are property of the Durant Library, not Scott County
Library System.
22.02   BOARD ORGANIZATION.
The Board shall consist of five members, all citizens of the City, appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the City Council. All appointments to the Board
shall be for five years, except to fill vacancies, with each term to commence
on January 1. An appointment shall be made each year of the total number, as
near as possible, to stagger the terms. The Board shall choose its Chairman and
Vice Chairman each year. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for actual expenses. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as
original appointments.
22.03   DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
In addition to its duty to plan for library and equipment and to update and
revise those plans as required, the Board shall review and recommend actions to
the Council regarding the Scott County Library contract. The Board shall
convene at the request of the Mayor and City Council. The Board will also
assist the librarian to select furniture, fixtures, or other equipment with
budgetary limits set by the Council.
22.04   REPORTS.
The Board shall make written reports to the City Council of its activities. The
City Clerk will report revenues and expenditures monthly in the City Clerk’s
report to the City Council. Detailed reports will be provided to the Board at
their request.
22.05   PENALTIES.
Violation of a Board rule, which has been approved by the City Council and
adopted by ordinance, may be cause for denial of use of a facility or
participation in a program, but such denial which extends more than one month
may be appealed to the Board for a hearing. The violation may also be
prosecuted under provisions of
Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances if a serious offense.
CHAPTER 23
COMMUNITY CENTER BOARD
(Repealed by Ordinance No. 2024-04 - May 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 24
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
 
24.01 Parks and Recreation Board Created 24.04 Reports
24.02 Board Organization                 24.05 Rules
24.03 Duties of the Board                24.06 Penalties
 
24.01   PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD CREATED.
A Parks and Recreation Board is hereby created to advise the Council on the
needed facilities to provide open space such as parks, playgrounds, and
community facilities for other forms of recreation. It shall encourage the
development of programs for the leisure time of the City’s residents of all
ages. The Board members serve as volunteers with no compensation.
24.02   BOARD ORGANIZATION.
The Board shall consist of five members, all citizens of the City, appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the Council for overlapping five-year terms. The
Board shall choose its Chairman and Vice Chairman every two years thereafter.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments.
24.03   DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
In addition to its duty to make a plan for recreation and for the facilities
for recreation, and to update and revise these plans as required, the Board
shall advise and make recommendations to the Council on properties devoted to
parks and recreation, subject to the limitation of expenditures for supplies,
contracts, and capital outlays set forth in the annual budget provided by the
Council for park and recreation operations. The Board shall have the same
expenditure procedure as explained in the City Financial Management policy
whereby any expense at or above $1,000 must have Council approval.
24.04   REPORTS.
The Board shall make written reports to the Council of its activities from time
to time as it deems advisable or upon Council request. Its revenues and
expenditures shall be reported monthly by the Clerk to the Council.
24.05   RULES.
The Board shall have power to make rules and regulations for the use of park or
other recreational facilities or for the conduct of recreation programs,
subject to the approval of the rules by the Council. Such rules shall be either
posted on the facility or otherwise publicized in a manner to provide adequate
notice to the using public.
24.06   PENALTIES.
Violation of a Board rule, which has been approved by the Council and adopted
by ordinance, may be subject to denial of use of a facility or participation in
a program, or municipal infraction. The violation may also be prosecuted under
the Municipal Infraction Ordinance outlined in
Chapter 4.
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established       30.07 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.02 Organization                 30.08 Departmental Rules
30.03 Peace Officer Qualifications 30.09 Summoning Aid
30.04 Required Training            30.10 Taking Weapons
30.05 Compensation                 30.11 Contract Law Enforcement
30.06 Peace Officers Appointed
 
30.01   DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03   PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04   REQUIRED TRAINING.
All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law at
an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(501 IAC 3 and 8)
30.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such compensation
as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06   POLICE CHIEF APPOINTED.
The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief subject to the consent of
a majority of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07   POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring all
persons committing any offense before the proper court, and assist the City and
County Attorneys as needed or required by law in the prosecution of said
offense.
3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to the
State Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for the
prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest, and the disposition of the
charge.
9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report as
well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and be
responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment, and
materials of the department.
11.   Council Meetings. The Police Chief shall serve as Sergeant at Arms at
Council meetings and provide monthly reports, and additional reports upon
activities as Police Chief, as requested by the Council.
30.08   DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with this Code of
Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary for
the operation of the department.
30.09   SUMMONING AID.
Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10   TAKING WEAPONS.
Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items that
are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have within
such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
30.11   CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
In lieu of the appointment of a Police Chief by the Mayor as provided by
Section
30.06, the Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other qualified
lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City and in such
event the Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the powers and
duties of the Police Chief as provided herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
 
35.01 Establishment and Purpose               35.08 Fires Outside City Limits
35.02 Election of Officers                    35.09 Fire Department Advisory
                                              Board
35.03 Fire Chief’s Duties                   35.10 Board Organization
35.04 Volunteer Firefighters                  35.11 Duties of the Board
35.05 Fire Fighters’ Duties                 35.12 Reports
35.06 Worker’s Compensation Hospitalization 35.13 Rules
Insurance
35.07 Liability Insurance
 
35.01   ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.
35.02   ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
The Fire Department, with the first business meeting January of each year,
shall elect, by ballot of its membership, a Chief, a 1st Assistant, a 2nd
Assistant, 3rd Assistant, and a Corresponding Secretary. Results of the
election shall be forwarded to the City Council for approval at the next
Council meeting. The officers of the Fire Department shall hold office for a
period of one year or until their successors qualify, unless sooner discharged
or removed for cause by the fire department officers. Council shall be notified
of a removal of an officer. Appeals of the removal of an officer shall be heard
by the Council. Appeals must be in writing and filed at City Hall within five
days of removal of an officer.
35.03   FIRE CHIEF DUTIES.
The Fire Chief shall command all operations of the department, and be
responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles and equipment of
the department. Subject to Council approval, the Fire Chief shall establish and
maintain departmental rules to carry out the requirements of this chapter. The
Fire Chief has the authority to enter and inspect any building or premises in
the performance of his duties and shall make written orders to correct any
conditions that are likely to cause fire or endanger other buildings and
property.
35.04   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS.
All persons who within a radius of three miles of the Durant fire station and
are at least age 18 may be appointed to serve as a volunteer firefighter. All
volunteers shall be selected by an election of the existing members of the
volunteer Fire Department, which selection shall be subject to the approval of
the Council. Prior to appointment as a volunteer firefighter, all applicants
shall be required to complete a physical test as determined by the membership
of the Fire Department. Removal and discipline of a member shall be governed by
the internal policies of the Fire Department and handled by officers of the
Fire Department. A removed member may appeal said removal to the Council by
filing a written appeal with the City Hall within five days of said removal
from the Fire Department.
35.05   FIREFIGHTER’S DUTIES.
When called by the Chief, all firefighters shall report for duty immediately in
the manner directed by the Chief. They shall be subject to call at any time.
They shall obey strictly the commands of any other firefighter who has been
appointed by the Chief to be in command temporarily. Firefighters shall report
for training as ordered by the Chief.
35.06   WORKER’S COMPENSATION AND HOSPITALIZATION INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters. All volunteer
firefighters shall be covered by the contract.
35.07   LIABILITY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or members
of the department for injuries, death, or property damage arising out of and
resulting from the performance of departmental duties.
35.08   FIRES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
City limits if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the City limits.
35.09   FIRE DEPARTMENT ADVISORY BOARD.
A Fire Department Advisory Board is hereby created to advise the Council on the
needed facilities and equipment to provide adequate fire protection for the
City, and such rural areas as shall contract with the City for fire protection.
35.10   BOARD ORGANIZATION.
The Board shall consist of two representatives of the City Council; one
township trustee or their designated representative from each rural township
which shall contract with the City for fire protection, and the officers of the
Durant Fire Department. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of the Board.
35.11   DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
In addition to its duties to make plans and rules for the operation of the Fire
Department, and to revise and update the plans and rules as required, the Board
shall annually review and approve the budget prepared by the Clerk and Fire
Chief.
35.12   REPORTS.
The Fire Department’s revenue and expenditures shall be reported monthly by the
Clerk to the Council as required by law. The Fire Chief shall make a report to
the Council of the Fire Department’s activities once a year at the first
Council meetings in February of each calendar year prior to the annual township
meeting. The Council shall be apprised of any additional equipment purchased by
Firefighter’s Inc., but a full accounting of Firefighter’s Inc. shall not be
required by the Council but may be required by the Auditors Office of the State
of Iowa.
35.13   RULES.
The Board shall have power to make rules and regulations for the operation of
the Fire Department and the conduct and duty of its members, subject to the
approval of the rules by the Council.
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Liability
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal, and cleanup of
hazardous substance spills within the City limits.
36.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control, identify,
analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual, imminent,
or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance onto the
land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates an
immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
36.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection, dumping,
spilling, leaking, or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the hazardous
substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the environment
or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground
waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied by a
cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety, and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
36.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of, or
loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction, or loss.
4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents of
the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused by
that person.
36.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing of a
hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources and
the Police Chief of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as possible
but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous condition or
discovery of the hazardous condition. The Police Chief shall immediately notify
the Department of Natural Resources.
2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
Police Chief, which shall then notify the Department of Natural Resources.
36.06   POLICE AUTHORITY.
If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or an
authorized representative may:
1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
36.07   LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries, or
losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault            40.04 Unlawful Assembly
40.02 Harassment         40.05 Failure to Disperse
40.03 Disorderly Conduct
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
No person shall commit harassment.
1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
   A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law enforcement
authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing that the
information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal act,
knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No person shall do any of the following:
1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or in
or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in athletic
contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1])
2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which causes unreasonable distress to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[2])
3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture
that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent
reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[3])
4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of authority,
disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct intended to
disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[4])
5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate a
report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such report
to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[5])
6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[6])
   A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
   B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
   C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
   D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
   E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
   F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
7.   Obstruct Use of Street. Without authority or justification, obstruct any
street, sidewalk, highway, or other public way, with the intent to prevent or
hinder its lawful use by others.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[7])
8.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
   A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
   B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the person
knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction by
another.
   C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral procession,
or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial
service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04   UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
It is unlawful for three or more persons to assemble together, with them or any
of them acting in a violent manner, and with intent that they or any of them
will commit a public offense. No person shall willingly join in or remain part
of an unlawful assembly, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe it is
such.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.2)
40.05   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  41.09 Antenna and
                                                         Radio Wires
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.10 Barbed Wire and
Safety Entities                                          Electric Fences
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.14 Fireworks
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.15 Drug
Device                                                   Paraphernalia
41.08 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any corrosive,
caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person delivers such
into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes reasonable precautions
that the substance will not be taken by children or animals from the place
where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department, a
law enforcement authority, or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or she
is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be a
peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A of
the Code of Iowa, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, or a person
performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the Code of Iowa,
in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the lawful duty or
authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, or person performing bailiff duties, or shall knowingly resist or
obstruct the service or execution by any authorized person of any civil or
criminal process or order of any court. The terms “resist” and “obstruct” as
used in this section do not include verbal harassment unless the verbal
harassment is accompanied by a present ability and apparent intention to
execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind or
to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns, or
other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building without written consent
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building, including
but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway, doorway, or
window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14   FIREWORKS.
The sale of fireworks within the City is subject to the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
1.   Definitions. For purposes of this section, definitions are enumerated in
Section 727.2 of the Code of Iowa, which definitions are incorporated herein by
reference.
2.   Sales - General Requirements. Prior to any person engaging in the sale of
consumer fireworks, the following shall be provided to the City Building
Inspector:
   A.   License. Proof of valid license issued from the State Fire Marshal.
   B.   Liability Insurance. Proof of liability insurance separate from the
building property insurance specifically showing coverage of fireworks sales
for an aggregate amount of $2,000,000.00.
3.   Fire Inspection. Any property, building, or premise (whether it be
permanent or temporary) intended for the sale of consumer fireworks shall have
an initial fire inspection completed by the Inspector prior to engaging in the
sale of consumer fireworks. The Inspector shall cause an annual inspection to
occur meeting the requirements of the National Fire Protection Code 1124 (2018
Edition) and the current fire code adopted by the City. Inspection costs shall
be assessed as follows:
   A.   Permanent Structure Where Fireworks Are Sold. Annual inspection fee of
$100.00.
   B.   Temporary or Non-Brick-and-Mortar Building Where Fireworks Are Sold.
Annual inspection fee of $200.00.
4.   Dates of Sale. Consumer fireworks sales shall only be conducted in
accordance with dates and times designated by Section 727.2 of the Code of
Iowa. It shall be unlawful to sell consumer fireworks without meeting the
requirements specified in this chapter, or to sell fireworks outside of the
dates specified.
   A.   Approved consumer fireworks sales meeting the requirements of this
chapter shall be allowed from an approved permanent structure or building
between June 1 and July 8, and from December 10 until January 3.
   B.   Approved consumer fireworks sales meeting the requirements of this
chapter shall be allowed from an approved temporary structure between June 13
and July 8.
5.   Safety Requirements. The following safety requirements shall be adopted
for all locations where consumer fireworks are sold:
   A.   All transportation, storage, and sales of consumer fireworks shall
conform to the safety standards set forth by the National Fire Protection Code
1124 (2018 Edition), including but not limited to, those standards concerning
separation distance requirements and aggregate weight limits.
   B.   There shall be no more than 1,000 pounds of 1.4G consumer fireworks on
site at any temporary structure sales location.
   C.   Any permanent structure used primarily for the purpose of consumer
fireworks sales shall be located 35 feet from a property line, public roadway,
alley, or highway and 110 feet from an inhabited building.
   D.   Any temporary structure having between 500 and 1,000 pounds of total
aggregate weight of DOT 1.4 class consumer fireworks shall be located 55 feet
from a property line, public roadway, alley, or highway and 110 feet from an
inhabited building.
   E.   Smoking, open flame source, or matches shall not be located within 50
feet of where consumer fireworks are sold. The following exemptions apply:
      (1)   Lighters and matches may be sold as part of a retail business in
commercial structures who engage in other merchandise sales where consumer
fireworks are not the primary business.
      (2)   Locations that engage in consumer fireworks sales as a primary
source of revenue may sell extended lighters so long as lighters are located in
a sealed package and not opened within the store premises.
6.   All electrical wiring shall meet NFPA 70 National Electrical Code.
Permanent structures or buildings used primarily for consumer fireworks sales
shall meet wiring requirements for a hazardous location, including covered
light fixtures to avoid sparks upon failure or damage to lights.
7.   Locations. Consumer fireworks sales shall only be allowed in areas zoned
for commercial use.
   A.   Locations shall maintain 48-inch clear aisles between consumer
fireworks display shelves.
   B.   Locations shall maintain two approved exits for egress during an
emergency. All approved exits shall be clearly marked with signage; except that
exit signs shall be illuminated in permanent structures.
   C.   Consumer fireworks sales shall only be permitted in a single story at-
grade building or structure to facilitate easy exiting during an emergency.
   D.   Locations shall have a minimum of two 10-pound ABC-rated fire
extinguishers mounted in accordance with NFPA 10. Additional fire extinguishers
shall be placed in locations to prevent travel distance exceeding 75 feet in
order to reach a fire extinguisher.
   E.   All doors used as service doors outside the view of a clerk shall be
locked to prevent unauthorized persons from entering the building unnoticed.
   F.   If doors are approved exit doors as part of the two approved exits
needed, they shall be operable without special tools, keys, or knowledge.
Delayed or alarmed egress doors are permitted so long as release is activated
within eight seconds.
   G.   No persons under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or narcotics, shall
be allowed to remain in the business where consumer fireworks are sold.
   H.   No more than one conex container or approved explosive magazine shall
be located on site for short-term storage of extra product. All containers
shall be properly placarded and equipped with tamper-proof locking devices. It
is permitted to place containers in a security fenced area.
   I.   Individual consumer fireworks devices or opened consumer fireworks
packages shall not be permitted to be displayed. No open fuses shall be exposed
during storage inside a sales location.
8.   Age Requirement. No person shall sell a DOT 1.4 class consumer firework to
a person under the age of 18.
9.   Sales Illegal Under the Influence. Consumer fireworks shall not be sold by
or to an intoxicated person or to any person whom a reasonable person would
believe may be impaired by other substances.
10.   Discharge of Fireworks.
   A.   As per Section
47.03 of City Code, no fireworks shall be discharged on any public or City
property, including streets, avenues, parks and right of ways. No person under
the age of 18 shall discharge a DOT 1.4 class consumer firework without
parental supervision.
   B.   A person shall only discharge a consumer fireworks device on real
property they own or on property where consent has been given, so long as all
trash, wrappers, wires and waste are picked up on property and any surrounding
properties that waste has blown into. Novelties, including snakes, sparklers,
or caps, can not be discharged on a public place. If complaints are filed with
City Hall or Police Department due to waste from discharge of fireworks,
property owner can be charged with municipal infraction and minimum fee of $500
for failure to clean up.
   C.   Consumer fireworks shall not be discharged by persons showing visible
signs of, or determined to be, intoxicated or under the influence of a drug or
narcotic.
   D.   Any person discharging a consumer fireworks device assumes all
responsibility for its operation and the consequences thereof. No person shall
discharge a consumer fireworks device in a reckless manner or manner likely to
cause death, injury, fire, or property damage.
   E.   No person shall discharge a consumer fireworks device outside the
following dates and hours:
      (1)   July 3rd thru July 4th from the hours of noon until 11:00 pm.
      (2)   December 31st thru January 1st from the hours of noon until
midnight.
(Paragraphs A-E – Ord. 2023-02 – May 24 Supp.)
   F.   It shall be unlawful to alter, remove, or discharge components of a
consumer fireworks device from its intended method of discharging.
   G.   Sky lantern open flame devices are not permitted to be released within
the City limits.
   H.   The Fire Chief has the authority to ban the use of any fireworks by
definition if the conditions warrant a burn ban implemented by State, County,
or local jurisdictions.
11.   Displays. The City may, upon application in writing, grant a permit for
the display of display fireworks on public property by a City agency, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of individuals
approved by City authorities when such display fireworks display will be
handled by a competent operator. No permit shall be granted hereunder unless
the operator or sponsoring organization has filed with the City evidence of
insurance in the following amounts:
   A.   Personal injury: $250,000.00 per person.
   B.   Property Damage: $50,000.00.
   C.   Total Exposure: $1,000,000.00.
12.   Violations. Violations of this section shall be at the discretion of the
Fire Chief or Peace Officer.
13.   Exceptions. This section does not prohibit the sale by a resident,
dealer, manufacturer, or jobber of such fireworks as are not prohibited; or the
sale of any kind of fireworks if they are to be shipped out of State; or the
sale or use of blank cartridges for a show or theater; or for signal purposes
in athletic sports; or by railroads or trucks for signal purposes; or by a
recognized military organization. This section does not apply to any substance
or composition prepared and sold for medicinal or fumigation purposes.
41.15   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 124.414)
1.   As used in this section “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment, products
or materials of any kind used or attempted to be used in combination with a
controlled substance, except those items used in combination with the lawful
use of a controlled substance, to knowingly or intentionally and primarily do
any of the following:
   A.   Manufacture a controlled substance.
   B.   Inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
   C.   Test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled substance.
   D.   Enhance the effect of a controlled substance.
Drug paraphernalia does not include hypodermic needles or syringes if
manufactured, delivered, sold, or possessed for a lawful purpose.
2.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally manufacture,
deliver, sell, or possess drug paraphernalia.
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Other Public Property Offenses
42.04 Unauthorized Entry
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
   A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle,
or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
   B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of the
Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of the
Code of Iowa.
   C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
   D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person owning,
leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this State.
   E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property owned,
leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
   F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
      (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
      (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
      (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect of
unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
      (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing therefrom,
altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein anything animate
or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the owner, lessee, or
person in lawful possession.
      (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
      (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
   A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
   B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down, or
destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement, or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06   THEFT.
It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
1.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
   A.   Section
105.07 – Littering Prohibited
2.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
   A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
   B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
   C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
   D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
   E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
   F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
   G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
3.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
   A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
   B.   Section
136.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
   C.   Section
136.16 – Defacing
   D.   Section
136.17 – Debris on Sidewalks
   E.   Section
136.18 – Merchandise Display
   F.   Section
136.19 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.
1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a liquor control licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[2])
2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for the
purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from any
liquor control licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of Iowa
and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
   B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine to
determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using devices
and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the Code
of Iowa.
   D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a public
or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through Grade 12.
2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer upon the
public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor
in any public place, except premises covered by a liquor control license. A
person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer on public
school property or while attending any public or private school-related
function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public intoxication
under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that the person
may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense. If a device
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample of a
person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section
62.01(49) and (50) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04   SOCIAL HOST.
A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
eighteen, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Curfew                 46.03 Contributing to Delinquency
46.02 Cigarettes and Tobacco
 
46.01   CURFEW.
The Council has determined that a curfew for minors is necessary to promote the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the City and specifically
to reinforce the primary authority and responsibility of adults responsible for
minors; to protect the public from the illegal acts of minors committed after
the curfew hour; and to protect minors from improper influences and criminal
activity that prevail in public places after the curfew hour.
1.   Definitions. For use in this section, the following terms are defined:
   A.   “Emergency errand” means, but is not limited to, an errand relating to
a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any other situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious illness, bodily injury, or loss
of life.
   B.   “Knowingly” means knowledge that a responsible adult should reasonably
be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that responsible
adult’s custody. It is intended to continue to hold the neglectful or careless
adult responsible for a minor to a reasonable standard of adult responsibility
through an objective test. It is therefore no defense that an adult responsible
for a minor was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or
whereabouts of the minor.
   C.   “Minor” means any unemancipated person under the age of 18 years.
   D.   “Nonsecured custody” means custody in an unlocked multipurpose area,
such as a lobby, office or interrogation room that is not designed, set aside,
or used as a secure detention area, and the person arrested is not physically
secured during the period of custody in the area; the person is physically
accompanied by a law enforcement officer or a person employed by the facility
where the person arrested is being held; and the use of the area is limited to
providing nonsecured custody only while awaiting transfer to an appropriate
juvenile facility or to court, for contacting of and release to the person’s
parents or other responsible adult or for other administrative purposes; but
not for longer than six hours without the oral or written order of a judge or
magistrate authorizing the detention. A judge shall not extend the period of
time in excess of six hours beyond the initial six-hour period.
   E.   “Public place” includes stores, parking lots, parks, playgrounds,
streets, alleys, and sidewalks dedicated to public use and also includes such
parts of buildings and other premises, whether publicly or privately owned,
that are used by the general public or to which the general public is invited
commercially for a fee or otherwise; or in or on which the general public is
permitted without specific invitation; or to which the general public has
access. For purposes of this section, a vehicle or other conveyance is
considered to be a public place when in the areas defined above.
   F.   “Responsible adult” means a parent, guardian or other adult
specifically authorized by law or authorized by a parent or guardian to have
custody or control of a minor.
2.   Curfew Established.
   A.   Unless accompanied by a responsible adult, it is unlawful for any minor
15 years of age or younger to be or remain upon any of the alleys, streets, or
public places or to be in places of business and amusement in the City during
the following times:
      (1)   September 1 through May 31, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:
00 a.m. each day.
      (2)   June 1 through August 31, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00
a.m. each day.
   B.   Unless accompanied by a responsible adult, it is unlawful for any minor
16 through 17 years of age to be or remain upon any of the alleys, streets, or
public places or to be in places of business and amusement in the City during
the following times:
      (1)   September 1 through May 31, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:
00 a.m. each day.
      (2)   June 1 through August 31, between the hours of midnight and 5:00
a.m. each day
3.   Exceptions. The following are exceptions to the curfew:
   A.   The minor is accompanied by a responsible adult.
   B.   The minor is on the sidewalk or property where the minor resides or on
either side of the place where the minor resides and the adult responsible for
the minor has given permission for the minor to be there.
   C.   The minor is present at or is traveling between home and one of the
following:
      (1)   Minor’s place of employment in a business, trade or occupation in
which the minor is permitted by law to be engaged or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of work;
      (2)   Minor’s place of religious activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the religious activity;
      (3)   Governmental or political activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the activity;
      (4)   School activity or, if traveling, within one hour after the end or
before the beginning of the activity;
      (5)   Assembly such as a march, protest, demonstration, sit-in or meeting
of an association for the advancement of economic, political, religious or
cultural matters, or for any other activity protected by the First Amendment of
the U.S. Constitution guarantees of free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech, freedom of assembly or, if traveling, within one hour after the end or
before the beginning of the activity.
   D.   The minor is on an emergency errand for a responsible adult;
   E.   The minor is engaged in interstate travel through the City beginning,
ending or passing through the City when such travel is by direct route.
4.   Responsibility of Adults. It is unlawful for any responsible adult
knowingly to permit or to allow a minor to be in any public place in the City
within the time periods prohibited by this section unless the minor’s presence
falls within one of the above exceptions.
5.   Enforcement Procedures.
   A.   Determination of Age. In determining the age of the juvenile and in the
absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate or driver’s license,
a law enforcement officer on the street shall, in the first instance, use his
or her best judgment in determining age.
   B.   Grounds for Arrest; Conditions of Custody. Grounds for arrest are that
the person refuses to sign the citation without qualification; persists in
violating the ordinance; refuses to provide proper identification or to
identify himself or herself; or constitutes an immediate threat to the person’s
own safety or to the safety of the public. A law enforcement officer who
arrests a minor for a curfew violation may keep the minor in custody either in
a shelter care facility or in any nonsecured setting. The officer shall not
place bodily restraints, such as handcuffs, on the minor unless the minor
physically resists or threatens physical violence when being taken into
custody. A minor shall not be placed in detention following a curfew violation.
   C.   Notification of Responsible Adult. After a minor is taken into custody,
the law enforcement officer shall notify the adult responsible for the minor as
soon as possible. The minor shall be released to the adult responsible for the
minor upon the promise of such person to produce the child in court at such
time as the court may direct.
   D.   Minor Without Adult Supervision. If a law enforcement officer
determines that a minor does not have adult supervision because the law
enforcement officer cannot locate the minor’s parent, guardian or other person
legally responsible for the care of the minor, within a reasonable time, the
law enforcement officer shall attempt to place the minor with an adult relative
of the minor, an adult person who cares for the child or another adult person
who is known to the child.
6.   Penalties.
   A.   Responsible Adult’s First Violation. In the case of a first violation
by a minor, the law enforcement officer shall, by certified mail, send to the
adult responsible for the minor, written notice of the violation with a warning
that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of the curfew
ordinance against both the responsible adult and minor, with applicable
penalties.
   B.   Responsible Adult’s Second Violation. Any responsible adult as defined
in this section who, following receipt of a warning, knowingly allows the minor
to violate any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a municipal
infraction.
   C.   Minor’s First Violation. In the case of a first violation by a minor,
the law enforcement officer shall give the minor a written warning, which
states that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of the
curfew ordinance against the responsible adult and the minor, with applicable
penalties, or, at the law enforcement officer’s discretion, may issue the minor
a citation for a first violation.
   D.   Minor’s Second Violation. For the minor’s second and subsequent
violations of any of the provisions of this section, the minor is guilty of a
municipal infraction.
46.02   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.03   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age to
commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Commercial Activity          47.08 Motor Vehicles
47.02 Placing Advertising In Parks 47.09 Parking
47.03 Firearms and Fireworks       47.10 Littering
47.04 Pets                         47.11 Skateboards In Parks
47.05 Park Hours                   47.12 Inflatables In Parks
47.06 Baseball Diamond Curfew      47.13 Sales of Articles or Services
47.07 Unlicensed Motor Vehicles    47.14 Park Rentals of Shelters and Ball
                                   Fields
 
47.01   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY.
It is unlawful for any person to conduct any promotional or commercial activity
on any park property within the limits of the City, without first obtaining a
written permit from the City.
47.02   PLACING ADVERTISING IN PARKS.
It is unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any structure,
advertising, or vegetation on park property, without first obtaining written
permission from the Council.
47.03   FIREARMS AND FIREWORKS.
It is unlawful for any person to have in their possession, shoot, fire, or
explode any firearms, fireworks, or explosives on park property.
47.04   PETS.
No pets are allowed in City parks except on a maximum six-feet length leash.
All pet waste must be cleaned up by owners.
47.05   PARK HOURS.
1.   All public parks within the City shall be open freely to the public from
the hour of 6:00 a.m. through the hour of 10:00 p.m. on any one day, or, one-
half hour following the end of an organized game. The parks will be open from
December 1 through March 1 only from dawn to dusk hours.
2.   It shall be unlawful for any persons (other than City personnel conducting
City business therein), to occupy or to be present in any public park during
any hours in which said public parks are not open to the public unless such
persons shall have secured a special permit from the Clerk to occupy or be
present in said park at such time.
3.   Any section or part of a public park may be declared closed to the public
by the Council at any time and at an interval of time, either temporarily or at
regular or stated intervals.
47.06   BASEBALL DIAMOND CURFEW.
No new innings shall start after 10:00 p.m. If an inning has been started, it
shall be completed.
47.07   UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to operate an unlicensed vehicle on park
property. All City or Durant Municipal Electric vehicles shall be exempt.
Vehicles for the purpose of park maintenance shall be authorized by the City
Clerk or Public Works Director upon a case by case nature.
47.08   MOTOR VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle on park property
other than on park roadways or designated parking areas. All City or Durant
Municipal Electric vehicles shall be exempt. Vehicles for the purpose of park
maintenance shall be authorized by the City Clerk or Public Works Director upon
a case by case nature.
47.09   PARKING.
It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle anywhere but designated
parking areas on park property.
47.10   LITTERING.
It is unlawful for any person to litter park property.
47.11    SKATEBOARDS IN PARKS.
Skateboards shall only be allowed to be operated in the fenced-in area of the
skate board park at Jaycee Park. The use of skateboards shall not be allowed in
any other parks, or park shelters.
47.12   INFLATABLES IN PARKS.
Due to insurance liability, no inflatable toys or equipment are allowed in the
parks unless included as part of carnival rides provided by a carnival ride
company with proof of insurance.
47.13   SALES OF ARTICLES OR SERVICES.
No person shall sell or offer for sale, or display or exhibit, any article or
service whatsoever in any park, trail, or parkway without prior approval of the
City Council. This provision does not apply to such sales of refreshments or
any other articles from concession stands authorized by the Council, nor does
it apply to any concert, program, exhibit, or entertainment authorized by the
Council.
47.14   PARK RENTALS OF SHELTERS AND BALL FIELDS.
Shelters and ball fields at the parks are available for rent. Rental fees shall
be set by the Parks and Recreation Board with Council approval by resolution.
Applicants must complete the reservation form at City Hall and pay full rental
fees at the time of reservation. The City will post the reservation on the day
of the event.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Other Conditions       50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without legal
authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of water.
4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the water
of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by fences,
buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets, alleys,
commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether erected
and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and impair the
view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway, boulevard, or
alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render dangerous the use
thereof. (See also Section
62.06) 
7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk, such
as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also
Chapter 51) 
8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other vegetation
in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
10.   Diseased Trees. Trees infected with disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within 1,000
feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or landing
place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-off and
landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or enjoyment
of the land on which the same is located.
12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, or breaches of the peace are carried
on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
13.   Hazardous Accumulations. Accumulations of rubbish or trash tending to
harbor vermin, rodents, and rank growth of weeds or other vegetation and
plants, which is conducive to hazard.
50.03   OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
2.   Noise Pollution (See
Chapter 52)
3.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
4.   Dangerous Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
5.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
50.04   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance, public
or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.07.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall contain: †
4   
   A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
   B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
   C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
   D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
   E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or condition
is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within the time
prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the property
owner.
2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or sent
by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Council
at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council shall be
conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or condition
neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the required
action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred. The
itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total expense
incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to abide by the
notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not been paid
within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County Treasurer and
such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner as, general
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to abate
the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the assessment
to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same manner and
with the same interest rates provided for assessments against benefited
property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who shall
fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time required
and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
4 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in Chapter 4 of this Code of
Ordinances.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery,
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery, or appliances; iron,
steel, or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass,
tinware, plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly
stacked firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the County
Treasurer or unlicensed and having any of the following characteristics:
   A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield, window,
headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
   B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel, or trunk lid.
   C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
   D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
   E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
   F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of its
defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to the
public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices moved
by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04   EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
1.   A vehicle in an enclosed building.
2.   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a district
properly zoned therefore, as authorized under the Zoning Regulations or
restricted residence district of this City, when necessary to the operation of
said business enterprise.
3.   A vehicle in an appropriate storage space or depository maintained in a
lawful place and lawful manner by this City.
51.05   NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section
51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
NOISE POLLUTION
 
52.01 Purpose                        52.04 Maximum Noise Standards By Districts
52.02 Definitions                    52.05 Sound Equipment and Amplifying
                                     Equipment
52.03 Measurement of Noise and Sound
 
52.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the control of noise
pollution in the City by setting maximum permissible sounds levels for zoning
districts and also for various activities, regardless of the zoning district,
in order to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
community.
52.02   DEFINITIONS.
1.   “Amplified sound” means sound that is increased in intensity and duration
by electrical, electronic, mechanical, or other nonhuman means.
2.   “Decibel” or “(dB)” means a unit used to measure the intensity of a sound
or the power level of an electrical signal by comparing it with a given level
on a logarithmic scale.
3.   “Noise” means the intensity, duration, and character of sounds from any
and all sources.
4.   “Person” means any individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental body, State, or other entity whatsoever.
5.   “Public place” means any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk, or
alley, or similar place owned or controlled by the City, including any
structure or park.
6.   “Sound” means a temporal and spatial oscillation in pressure, or other
physical quality, in a medium with internal forces that causes compression and
rarefaction of that medium, and which propagates at finite speed to distant
points.
7.   “Sound level meter” means a device that includes a microphone, amplifier,
RMS detector and integrator, time average, output or display meter, and
weighting networks used to measure and read sound pressure levels which, when
properly calibrated, complies with American National Standards Institute
(ANSI).
8.   “Weighted sound level” means the pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level using the A-Weighting network. The level so read shall be
designated dB(A) or dBA.
52.03   MEASUREMENT OF NOISE AND SOUND.
The measurement of noise and sound shall be made with a sound level meter
meeting the standards prescribed by the American National Standards Institute.
The instruments shall be maintained in calibration and good working order. A
calibration check shall be made of the system on an annual basis. Measurements
recorded shall be taken as to provide a proper representation of the noise
source. The microphone during measurement shall be positioned so as not to
create an unnatural enhancement or diminution of the measured noise. A
windscreen for the microphone shall be used when required.
52.04   MAXIMUM NOISE STANDARDS BY DISTRICTS.
A sound measured to register in excess of the maximum permitted levels
according to the following table, is declared to be excessive and unusually
loud and is unlawful.
 
DISTRICT                                MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND LEVEL
                                        60 decibels between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
RESIDENTIAL (including home businesses) p.m.
                                        50 decibels between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
                                        a.m.
                                        65 decibels between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
COMMERCIAL                              p.m.
                                        50 decibels between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
                                        a.m.
INDUSTRIAL (in general)                 80 decibels
                                        80 decibels between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
INDUSTRIAL (bordering residential)      p.m.
                                        70 decibels between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
                                        a.m.
 
52.05   SOUND EQUIPMENT AND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT.
1.   No one may use, operate, or cause to be used or operated any radio, record
player, tape deck or player, loudspeaker, amplifier, sound truck, or other
device for producing, reproducing, or amplifying sound (hereinafter referred to
as sound equipment) upon public streets or in any building, or upon any
premises, public or private, if the sound created is plainly audible across a
residential property boundary from any public street or public place within the
City unless said person:
   A.   First obtains permission from the City Council in accordance with this
chapter;
   B.   Complies with any conditions imposed by the written permission,
including permitted sound level shown therein; and
   C.   Complies with all other applicable provisions of this chapter
2.   Sound equipment does not include:
   A.   Church or clock carillons, bells or chimes.
   B.   Equipment used for public health and safety purposes.
   C.   Parades, processions, or other public events for which the Council has
approved the event, or by fact the event takes place to honor residents (such
as Memorial Day or Veterans Day).
3.   Obtaining Permission from Council. In order to obtain permission and
approval from the Council, a request shall be made to the City Clerk, along
with any information upon which the City may need to base their decision.
Requester shall appear at the Council meeting no longer than 60 days prior to
the date of event.
4.   Exemptions: The requirements, prohibitions, and terms of this chapter
shall not apply the following:
   A.   Emergency vehicles using sirens, horns, or loud speakers in the case of
an emergency.
   B.   Annual community carnival, parades, and music fest (these shall end at
11:00 p.m.).
   C.   Any utility performing emergency work within the City corporate limits
as it applies to equipment and trucks. They are not exempt from the loud music.
   D.   Activities of a temporary duration, permitted by law and for which City
has granted permission including but not limited to fireworks display, outdoor
warning system, and athletic events.
   E.   Semi-tractor engine brakes.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                      55.09 Animal Nuisances
55.02 Animal Neglect                   55.10 Rabies Vaccination
55.03 Livestock Neglect                55.11 Owner’s Duty
55.04 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs     55.12 Confinement
55.05 Livestock and Poultry Prohibited 55.13 At Large: Impoundment
55.06 Wild Animals Prohibited          55.14 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.07 At Large Prohibited              55.15 Tampering With A Rabies
                                       Vaccination Tag
55.08 Damage or Interference           55.16 Tampering With An Electronic
                                       Handling Device
 
55.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium, including
(but not limited to) print, radio, television, sign, display, label, tag, or
articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
3.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain dogs
or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
4.   “At large” means any licensed or unlicensed animal found off the premises
of the owner and not restrained within a motor vehicle, housed in a veterinary
hospital or kennel, or on a leash.
5.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
   B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
   C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
   D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
6.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
7.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
   C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
8.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in Section
99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
9.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an animal’s
health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or organ, or
the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
10.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry (including ducks and chickens);
and, specifically, pot belly pigs and mini or teacup pigs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
11.   “Owner” means any person or persons, firm, association, or corporation
owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring an animal.
12.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
13.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
14.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine, veterinary
medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital, diagnostic
or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific establishment
situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or instruction
concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the cause,
prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human beings
or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
15.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169 of
the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
16.   “Wild animal” means any animal as defined in Section 717.F1(5) of the
Code of Iowa.
55.02   ANIMAL NEGLECT.
1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
   A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
   B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably sufficient
to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered. Access to snow or ice does not satisfy this
requirement.
   C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
   D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate protection
from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age, species, and
physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a state of
good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is endangered. The
shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun and have adequate
bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and dampness. A shelter
may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
   E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent adverse
health effects or suffering.
   F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
      (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s welfare
as described in this section.
      (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal to
suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part of
the commercial establishment’s operation.
      (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as described
in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care requirements
provided in Section 162.10A[1] of the Code of Iowa, including any applicable
rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship applying
to: (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section 162.10A
[2a] or [2b] of the Code of Iowa; or (ii) a permittee operating pursuant to
Section 162.10A[2c] of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or renewed
a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa, and performs functions within the
scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the research
facility.
55.03   LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place to
fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices, or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance, or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04   ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept ownership
and custody of the cat or dog.
2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or that has been issued
or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
55.05   LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for a person to maintain, keep, or harbor any cattle, swine, pot
belly pigs, sheep, llamas, horses, jacks, goats, guinea fowl, ostriches,
poultry (domestic chickens, turkeys, geese, and ducks), or similar domestic
animals raised for home use or for profit within the City limits unless the
property upon which the animals are kept is zoned agricultural. Any structure
for said livestock shall be located not less than 100 feet from the boundary of
any residential district.
55.06   WILD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep or permit to be kept on their premises any wild animal, as
defined in Section 717.F1 of the Code of Iowa for any purpose including display
or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee. This section
shall be construed to apply to zoological parks, wildlife sanctuaries, holder
of wildlife rehabilitation permit, performing animal exhibitions, or circuses.
No person shall keep or permit to be kept an wild animal as a pet. Any wild
animal found within the City limits is subject to immediate seizure as
contraband. Any animal so seized shall be turned over to the appropriate humane
society or animal rescue, or rehabilitation center.
55.07   AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.08   DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.09   ANIMAL NUISANCES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit an animal under such person’s
control or within such person’s custody to commit a nuisance. An animal shall
be considered a nuisance if it:
1.   Damages, soils, defiles, or defecates on private property other than the
owner’s or on public walks and recreation areas unless such waste is
immediately removed and properly disposed of by the owner.
2.   Causes unsanitary, dangerous, or offensive conditions.
3.   Causes a disturbance by excessive barking or other noisemaking, or by
running after or chasing persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles, or
for an owner of a cat to allow or permit such cat to cause serious annoyance to
any person by frequent noisemaking of any kind.
55.10   RABIES VACCINATION.
Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal. It is
unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession, six
months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies. Dogs kept
in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are not
subject to these vaccination requirements.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.11   OWNER’S DUTY.
It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten or
attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.12   CONFINEMENT.
If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs. If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after 10 days the board may
humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to its owner, the owner
shall pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if a police
service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the
performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.13   AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
Any dog found at large shall be seized and impounded or, at the discretion of
the police, the owner may be served a summons to appear before a proper court
to answer charges made thereunder.
1.   Licensed dogs shall be returned to the owner, if possible. If the dog is
impounded, the owner must pay the $50.00 impounding fee before the dog will be
returned. If the impounded licensed dogs are not recovered by their owners
within seven days after notice, the responsibility for the dogs shall be
transferred to the Muscatine Humane Society.
2.   Impounded unlicensed dogs may be recovered by the owner, upon proper
identification, by payment of the license fee, proof of rabies certification,
and an impounding fee of $100.00. The City will post a public service notice in
an attempt to inform the owner of the dog’s location. If such dogs are not
claimed within five days after notice, the responsibility and dog will be
transferred to the Muscatine Humane Society physical custody.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37)
 
Impoundments in the Previous 12 Months Impounding Fee*
First Impoundment                      $50.00
Second Impoundment                     $75.00
Third Impoundment                      $100.00
*Plus, any other legal fees, licensing fees, and court costs. These feels
shall apply to any and all animals impounded in the previous 12 months with
the same owner.
 
55.14   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
   A.   A prize for participating in a game.
   B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
   C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
   D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care, or disposition of the pet.
2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
   B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting, or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.15   TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag if
all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies vaccination
tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.16   TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
   B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached to
an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness, or
vest.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
CHAPTER 56
DOG LICENSE REQUIRED
 
56.01 Annual License Required 56.04 License and Tag Issued
56.02 Animal Limit            56.05 Kenneled Dogs
56.03 License Fees
 
56.01   ANNUAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
Every owner of a dog six months shall procure a dog license from the City Clerk
annually.
56.02   ANIMAL LIMIT.
The number of dogs or cats, six months of age or older, shall be limited to
four per household, only three of the same species. (For example three cats,
one dog or three dogs, one cat.) The limitation shall not apply to bonafide pet
store in an appropriately zoned, or to a licensed kennel or veterinary hospital
or clinic. No person shall harbor or maintain such a number of animals as to
create unhealthful or unsanitary conditions for the humans or animals occupying
the premises or create any other conditions constituting a nuisance.
56.03   LICENSE FEES.
The annual license fee shall be $5.00 for each spayed and neutered dog. The
annual license fee shall be $10.00 for any dog not spayed or neutered.
56.04   LICENSE AND TAG ISSUED.
Upon payment of the license fee and a veterinarian’s certificate showing that
the dog for which the license is sought has been vaccinated against rabies, the
Clerk shall issue to the owner a tag stamped with the number of the license and
the year for which it is issued. The tag shall be securely fastened to a collar
or harness which shall be worn by the dog for which the license is issued. The
Clerk shall keep a copy of the rabies vaccination certificate on file and the
dog license which shall contain the name of the owner, the owner’s place of
residence, and description of the dog. The Clerk shall enter in the license
record the new number assigned. Any dog found running at large without the
license tag attached to its collar shall be deemed unlicensed.
56.05   KENNELED DOGS.
Dogs which are kept in State or federally licensed kennels, and raised solely
for the bona fide purpose of sale, and which are kept under constant restraint,
are not subject to the provisions of this chapter.
CHAPTER 57
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
 
57.01 Definition                  57.05 Appeal and Hearing
57.02 Dangerous Animal Exceptions 57.06 Seizure, Impoundment, and Destruction
57.03 Dangerous Animals At Large  57.07 Costs and Expenses
57.04 Notice To Remove
 
57.01   DEFINITION.
It is unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, be in control of, or be in
possession of a dangerous animal within the City.
For the purpose of this chapter, an animal is dangerous if it meets at least
one of the following criteria:
1.   Any animal that bites or attacks any person or other domestic animal
without provocation either on public or private property
2.   Any animal with a history, tendency, propensity, or disposition to attack
or to cause injury to or to otherwise endanger the safety of a person or other
domestic animals.
3.   Any animal who, in a dangerous or terrorizing manner, approaches any
person or other domestic animal and displays threatening or aggressive
behavior.
4.   Any animal trained for dog fighting, animal fighting, or animal baiting,
or is owned or kept for such purposes.
5.   Any animal trained to attack human beings, upon command or spontaneously
in response to human activities; or
6.   Any animal previously adjudicated by a court to be dangerous.
7.   “Dangerous animal” also means: † 5
   A.   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, skunks, and mink.
   B.   Raccoons.
   C.   Bats.
   D.   Scorpions.
   E.   Any animals declared to be dangerous by the City Council.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Certain other dangerous animals, listed in Chapter 717F.1,
5 Paragraph 5a, of the Code of Iowa, are specifically prohibited and regulated by
  the Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship.
57.02   DANGEROUS ANIMAL EXCEPTIONS.
The keeping of dangerous animals shall not be prohibited in the following
circumstances (after obtaining the written approval of the City Council):
1.   In a public zoo.
2.   In a bona fide educational or medical institution or humane society.
3.   In a museum where they are kept as live specimens for the public to view.
4.   For the purpose of instruction, research, or study.
5.   Any animal owned by, and under control of, the Police Department or a law
enforcement agency of the State, United States, or any branch of the armed
forces of the United States.
57.03   DANGEROUS ANIMALS AT LARGE.
A dangerous animal found at large and unattended upon public property or upon
the property of someone other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard or
danger to any person or property, may, in the discretion of the Police Chief,
be destroyed if it cannot be safely confined or captured. The City shall be
under no duty to attempt to confine or capture a dangerous animal found at
large, nor shall it have a duty to notify the owner of such animal prior to its
destruction.
57.04   NOTICE TO REMOVE.
1.   Whenever the Police Chief finds that a dangerous animal is being kept in
violation of this chapter, the Police Chief shall cause a written notice to be
served upon the owner, agent, or occupant of the property upon which the animal
is found.
2.   Such notice shall not be required where the dangerous animal has
previously caused serious physical harm or death to any person. In such case,
the Police Chief shall cause the animal to be immediately seized and impounded
or destroyed if seizure and impoundment are not possible without risk of
serious physical harm to any person.
3.   The notice shall be served personally or by certified mail and shall
contain the following:
   A.   A description of the dangerous animal and the location at which it is
being kept.
   B.   An order to safely remove the animal from the City; permanently place
the animal with any person, organization, or group as described in Section
57.02; or destroy the animal.
   C.   A statement that such action must be taken within three days after
receipt of the notice.
   D.   A statement that the order may be appealed to the Council by filing
written notice with the Clerk within three days of receipt of the notice
described herein.
57.05   APPEAL AND HEARING.
1.   A person receiving a notice may appeal the order to remove by filing a
written notice of appeal with the Clerk within three days after receipt of the
notice to remove the dangerous animal. The notice of appeal shall state the
grounds or basis for the appeal and shall be delivered personally or by
certified mail. Failure to file a written notice of appeal constitutes a waiver
of the right to appeal.
2.   The appeal shall be heard by the Council at the first regular Council
meeting after the notice of appeal is received. The hearing may be continued
for good cause.
3.   The Council may affirm or reverse the order to remove. The Council’s
written decision shall be filed with the Clerk within three days after the
conclusion of the hearing.
4.   If the order to remove is affirmed, the person appealing shall be provided
with a copy of the decision and shall have three days from the date of receipt
to remove the dangerous animal.
57.06   SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT AND DESTRUCTION.
If the person receiving notice fails to comply with an order under Section
57.04 or with the Council’s decision under Section
57.05, the Police Chief shall seize and impound the animal. An animal so seized
shall be impounded for a period of seven days. If at the end of the impoundment
period, the person against whom the order to remove was issued has not
petitioned the Iowa District Court for Cedar County for review of said order,
the Police Chief shall cause the animal to be disposed of by sale, by permanent
placement with a person, organization or group authorized to possess dangerous
animals under Section
57.02, or by destruction in humane manner.
57.07   COSTS AND EXPENSES.
All costs, fees, and expenses associated with the capture, confinement,
impoundment, or disposition of a dangerous animal shall be the responsibility
of the owner of the animal.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic        60.08 Parades Regulated
 
60.01   TITLE.
Chapters
60 through
70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the “Durant Traffic
Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code.”)
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are hereby adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
1.   “Business District” means all areas zoned commercial, light industrial,
and heavy industrial. Business District also means the territory contiguous to
and including the following designated streets:
West 1st Avenue through 14th Avenue on 5th Street; 200 feet to the north or to
alley from middle of 5th Street and 135 feet to the south from middle of 5th
Street.
2.   “MPH” means miles per hour.
3.   “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or vehicles organized
for marching or moving on the streets in an organized fashion or manner or any
march or procession of persons or vehicles represented or advertised to the
public as a parade.
4.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
5.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
6.   “Pedestrian” means a person afoot or a person using a pedestrian
conveyance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51))
7.   “Pedestrian conveyance” means any human-powered device by which a
pedestrian may move other than by walking or by which a pedestrian may move
another person, including but not limited to a wheelchair, stroller,
skateboard, scooter, or other similar device. Pedestrian conveyance also
includes an electric personal assistive mobility device and any other device
used to move a person sitting or standing on the device regardless of whether
the device is powered by an electric motor, so long as the electric motor
produces less than 750 watts. Pedestrian conveyance does not include a bicycle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(51A))
8.   “Residential districts” means all areas of the City not included in
business districts.
9.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(70))
10.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving
or discharging passengers.
11.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
12.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
13.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in the
business, school, or residence districts.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(78))
14.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the purpose
of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
15.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway. Vehicle does not include:
   A.   Any device moved by human power, including a low-speed electric
bicycle.
   B.   Any device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   C.   Any personal delivery device operated pursuant to Chapter 321O of the
Code of Iowa.
   D.   Any integral part of a truck tractor or road tractor which is mounted
on the frame of the truck tractor or road tractor immediately behind the cab
and which may be used to transport persons and property, but which cannot be
drawn upon the highway by the truck tractor or another motor vehicle.
   E.   Any steering axle, dolly, auxiliary axle, or other integral part of
another vehicle which in and of itself is incapable of commercially
transporting any person or property but is used primarily to support another
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1(90))
(Section 60.02 – Ord. 2024-05 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the Fire
Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event of an
emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading, or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08   PARADES REGULATED.
No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
1.   Permission Required. No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any
street except after obtaining permission from Council by way of a resolution
for street closures for time frame of parade.
2.   Parade Not a Street Obstruction. Any parade for which permission has been
issued as herein required, and the persons lawfully participating therein,
shall not be deemed an obstruction of the streets notwithstanding the
provisions of any other ordinance to the contrary.
3.   Control by Police and Firefighters. Persons participating in any parade
shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in the
performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01   INSTALLATION.
The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or
emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency
or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or
warn traffic. The Clerk shall keep a record of all such traffic control
devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02   CROSSWALKS.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic control
devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such other places
as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.03   TRAFFIC LANES.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.04   STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05   COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Engine Brakes and Compression Brakes
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
9.   Section 321.91 – Limitation on liability; penalty for abandonment.
10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed; operation of commercial vehicles.
15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicles with expired license.
16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits, commercial learner’s permits, and
chauffeur’s instruction permits.
17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged fourteen
through seventeen.
18.   Section 321.193 – Restrictions on licenses; penalty.
19.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ licenses.
20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order;
penalties.
21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card; penalty.
22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified; penalties.
25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
29.   Section 321.223 – Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle rental.
30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles, highway use.
33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
34.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
35.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
36.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
37.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals; unlawful
possession; traffic signal preemption devices.
38.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited; vehicle
damage only; removal of vehicles.
39.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid; leaving scene of personal injury
accident.
40.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
41.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
42.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
43.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
44.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while driving;
text-messaging.
45.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
46.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
47.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
48.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
49.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles, drivers.
50.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles, passengers.
51.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
52.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
53.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
54.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
55.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
56.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
57.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
58.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
59.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
60.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
61.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
62.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
63.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
64.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
65.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
66.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
67.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
68.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
69.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
70.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
71.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
72.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
73.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
74.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
75.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
76.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
77.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
78.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
79.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
80.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
81.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
82.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
83.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
84.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
85.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
86.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
87.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
88.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
89.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
90.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
91.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
92.   Section 321.364 – Preventing contamination of food by hazardous material.
93.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
94.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
95.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
96.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
97.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
98.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
99.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils, stopping requirements; penalties.
100.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
101.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
102.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
103.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
104.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
105.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
106.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
107.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
108.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
109.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
110.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
111.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
112.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
113.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
114.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
115.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
116.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
117.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
118.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
119.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
120.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
121.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
122.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
123.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
124.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
125.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
126.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
127.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
128.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
129.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front, rear lights.
130.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
131.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
132.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
133.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
134.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, and bells prohibited.
135.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
136.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
137.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
138.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
139.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
140.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
141.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
142.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
143.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
144.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
145.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
146.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
147.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
148.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while operating a
commercial motor vehicle.
149.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
150.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
151.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
152.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
153.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
154.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
155.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
156.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
157.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
158.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight; exceptions, penalties.
159.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
160.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
The Council shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play
street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
62.07   ENGINE BRAKES AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.
It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate within the City
any engine brake, compression brake, or mechanical exhaust device designed to
aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle which results in excessive,
loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle (except in the case of an
emergency); or to drive or operate a vehicle, either singly or with others, in
any processional milling or repeated movement over any street to the
interference with normal traffic use or to the annoyance or offense of any
person.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                             63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits             63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots
 
63.01   GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
1.   Business District – 20 miles per hour.
2.   Residence or School District – 25 miles per hour.
3.   Suburban District – 45 miles per hour.
63.03   PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
A speed in excess of 15 miles per hour in any public park, cemetery, or parking
lot, unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
1.   Special 15 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 15 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   All alleys within the corporate limits.
2.   Special 25 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 25 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   All corporate City streets unless otherwise posted.
   B.   From the southern corporate limit line on Vail Avenue to the northern
corporate limit line of the City on Vail Avenue becoming 14th Avenue or Cedar/
Scott Road.
   C.   From 9th Avenue west to 5th Avenue.
3.   Special 30 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 30 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   From 14th Avenue to 9th Avenue.
   B.   From 5th Avenue to West 1st Avenue.   
(Paragraph B – Ord. 2023-01 – May 24 Supp.)
4.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 35 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   On 1st Avenue, between HWY 927 and north corporate line.
5.   Special 45 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 45 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   5th Street, from east City limits to 14th Avenue
   B.   From West 1st Avenue to west City limits.
(Paragraph B – Ord. 2023-01 – May 24 Supp.)
63.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Left Turn for Parking
64.02 U-Turns
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half
of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street shall
be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way street shall be
made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street being entered upon
leaving the intersection.
The Police Chief may cause markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions
require, that a different course from that specified above be traveled by
vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons, or signs are so
placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons, or signs.
64.02   U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the Business District at the following
designated intersections and at intersections where there are automatic traffic
signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
- NONE -
64.03   LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
No person shall make a left hand turn, crossing the centerline of the street,
for the purpose of parking on said street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Through Streets              65.07 School Stops
65.02 Stop Required                65.08 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.03 Two-Way Stop Intersections   65.09 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.04 Three-Way Stop Intersections 65.10 Pedestrians' Right-of-Way
65.05 Four-Way Stop Intersections  65.11 Official Traffic Controls
65.06 Yield Required
 
65.01   THROUGH STREETS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop, unless a yield is permitted by this
chapter, before entering an intersection with the following designated through
streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
- NONE -
65.02   STOP REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Vehicles traveling southbound on Yankee Avenue (1st Avenue) shall stop at
5th Street.
2.   Vehicles traveling westbound on 7th Street shall stop at 1st Avenue.
3.   Vehicles traveling southbound on 2nd Avenue shall stop at 7th Street.
4.   Vehicles traveling northbound on 3rd Avenue shall stop at 7th Street.
5.   Vehicles traveling eastbound on 7th Street shall stop at 14th Avenue.
6.   Vehicles traveling westbound on 7th Street shall stop at 14th Avenue.
7.   Vehicles traveling eastbound on 8th Street shall stop at 14th Avenue.
8.   Vehicles traveling eastbound on 9th Street shall stop at 14th Avenue.
9.   Vehicles traveling eastbound on 10th Street shall stop at 14th Avenue.
10.   Vehicles traveling eastbound on 11th Street shall stop at 14th Avenue.
11.   Vehicles traveling westbound on 8th Street shall stop at 6th Avenue.
12.   Vehicles traveling northbound on 6th Avenue shall stop at 8th Street.
13.   Vehicles traveling southbound on 6th Avenue shall stop at 5th Street.
14.   Vehicles traveling southbound on 8th Avenue shall stop at 9th Street
(Shiloh Addition).
15.   Vehicles traveling southbound on 9th Avenue shall stop at 5th Street.
16.   Vehicles traveling southbound on 10th Avenue shall stop at 5th Street.
17.   Vehicles traveling southbound on 11th Avenue shall stop at 5th Street.
18.   Vehicles traveling southbound on 12th Avenue shall stop at 5th Street.
19.   Vehicles traveling southbound on 13th Avenue shall stop at 5th Street.
20.   Vehicles traveling eastbound on Fire Alley shall stop at 8th Avenue.
21.   Vehicles traveling southbound on 7th Avenue shall stop at 5th Street.
22.   Vehicles traveling southbound on 4th Avenue shall stop at 5th Street.
23.   Vehicles traveling southbound on 3rd Avenue shall stop at 5th Street.
24.   Vehicles traveling southbound on W 1st Avenue shall stop at 5th Street.
25.   Vehicles traveling southbound on W 2nd Avenue shall stop at 5th Street.
26.   Vehicles traveling southbound on W 3rd Avenue shall stop at 5th Street.
27.   Vehicles traveling northbound on Norfolk Iron Drive shall stop at 5th
Street.
28.   Vehicles traveling northbound on 7th Avenue shall stop at 4th Street.
29.   Vehicles traveling eastbound on 4th Street shall stop at Vail Avenue.
30.   Vehicles traveling eastbound on 3rd Street shall stop at Vail Avenue.
65.03   TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
The following intersections are designated two-way stop intersections:
1.   7th Street and 9th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 7th
Street and 9th Avenue traveling northbound or southbound on 9th Avenue shall
stop before entering such intersection.
2.   8th Street and 12th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 8th
Street and 12th Avenue traveling northbound or southbound on 12th Avenue shall
stop before entering such intersection.
3.   6th Street and 6th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 6th
Street and 6th Avenue traveling eastbound or westbound on 6th Street shall stop
before entering such intersection.
4.   6th Street and 9th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 6th
Street and 9th Avenue traveling eastbound or westbound on 6th Street shall stop
before entering such intersection.
5.   5th Street and 14th Avenue/Vail Avenue. Vehicles approaching the
intersection of 5th Street and 14th Avenue/Vail Avenue traveling northbound or
southbound on 14th Avenue/Vail Avenue shall stop before entering such
intersection.
6.   5th Street and 8th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 5th
Street and 8th Avenue traveling northbound or southbound on 8th Avenue shall
stop before entering such intersection.
7.   5th Street and 6th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 5th
Street and 6th Avenue traveling northbound or southbound on 6th Avenue shall
stop before entering such intersection.
8.   5th Street and 5th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 5th
Street and 5th Avenue traveling northbound or southbound on 5th Avenue shall
stop before entering such intersection.
9.   4th Street and 5th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 4th
Street and 5th Avenue traveling eastbound or westbound on 4th Street shall stop
before entering such intersection.
10.   4th Street and 6th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 4th
Street and 6th Avenue traveling eastbound or westbound on 4th Street shall stop
before entering such intersection.
11.   3rd Street and 9th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 3rd
Street and 9th Avenue traveling northbound or southbound on 9th Avenue shall
stop before entering such intersection.
12.   3rd Street and 8th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 3rd
Street and 8th Avenue traveling eastbound or westbound on 3rd Street shall stop
before entering such intersection.
13.   3rd Street and 6th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 3rd
Street and 6th Avenue traveling northbound or southbound on 6th Avenue shall
stop before entering such intersection.
14.   2nd Street and 5th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 2nd
Street and 5th Avenue traveling eastbound or westbound on 2nd Street shall stop
before entering such intersection.
15.   Vehicles traveling eastbound or westbound between 13th Avenue and 14th
Avenue at Lioness Park shall stop before entering such intersections.
65.04   THREE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
The following intersections are designated three-way stop intersections:
1.   7th Street and 11th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 7th
Street and 11th Avenue traveling eastbound, westbound, or southbound shall stop
before entering such intersection.
2.   6th Street and 11th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 6th
Street and 11th Avenue (south of Jaycee Park) from any direction shall stop
before entering such intersection.
3.   3rd Street and 11th Avenue. Vehicles approaching the intersection of 3rd
Street and 11th Avenue from any direction shall stop before entering such
intersection.
65.05   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Intersection of 5th Avenue and 3rd Street.
2.   Intersection of 8th Avenue and 4th Street.
3.   Intersection of 3rd Avenue and 6th Street.
4.   Intersection of 4th Avenue and 6th Street.
5.   Intersection of 5th Avenue and 6th Street.
6.   Intersection of 10th Avenue and 6th Street.
7.   Intersection of 12th Avenue and 6th Street.
8.   Intersection of 4th Avenue and 7th Street.
9.   Intersection of 5th Avenue and 7th Street.
10.   Intersection of 6th Avenue and 7th Street.
11.   Intersection of 10th Avenue and 7th Street.
12.   Intersection of 12th Avenue and 7th Street.
13.   Intersection of 9th Avenue and 8th Street.
65.06   YIELD REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
- NONE -
65.07   SCHOOL STOPS.
At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
- NONE -
65.08   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.09   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.10   PEDESTRIANS' RIGHT-OF-WAY.
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
so yield to a pedestrian or a person riding a bicycle crossing the roadway
within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
(Section 65.10 – Ord. 2024-05 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
65.11   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROLS.
Every driver shall observe and comply with the directions provided by official
traffic control signals at the following intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
- NONE –
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.04 Truck Routes
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 and 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The Council may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a special
permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the maximum
specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named in the
permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the City is
responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 321E)
66.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 475)
66.04   TRUCK ROUTES.
Truck route regulations are established as follows:
1.   Truck Routes Designated. Every motor vehicle weighing five tons or more,
when loaded or empty, having no fixed terminal within the City or making no
scheduled or definite stops within the City for the purpose of loading or
unloading shall travel over or upon the following streets within the City and
none other:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   A.   1st Avenue from 5th Street northward.
   B.   All of 5th Street, from the west corporate line to the east corporate
line.
   C.   14th Avenue, from the south corporate line to the north corporate line.
   D.   5th Avenue, from the south corporate line to 5th Street.
   E.   Emergency Truck Route is 4th Street, from 5th Avenue to 14th Avenue.
   F.   Trucks are allowed to travel in all commercial and industrial zoning
districts.
2.   Deliveries Off Truck Route. Any motor vehicle having a fixed terminal,
making a scheduled or definite stop within the City for the purpose of loading
or unloading shall proceed over or upon the designated routes set out in this
section to the nearest point of its scheduled or definite stop and shall
proceed thereto, load or unload, and return by the most direct route to its
point of departure from said designated route.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
3.   Employer’s Responsibility. The owner or any other person employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle shall not require or knowingly
permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to
this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking       67.04 Use of Sidewalks
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
67.04   USE OF SIDEWALKS.
Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent street.
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
1.   7th Avenue shall be northbound only from 9th Street to 10th Street.
2.   The alley between 5th and 6th Avenues north of 7th Street shall be
westbound only.
3.   5th Avenue, north of 7th Street shall be southbound only.
4.   7th Avenue, south of 5th Street shall be southbound only between the
railroad tracks and 5th Street.
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb        69.07 Persons with Disabilities Parking
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets   69.08 No Parking Zones
69.03 Parking                      69.09 All Night Parking Prohibited
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking      69.10 Truck Parking Limited
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes 69.11 Snow Removal
Illegal
69.06 Parking Prohibited           69.12 Snow Routes
 
69.01   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   PARKING.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
1.   Angle or diagonal parking shall be permitted only in the following
locations:
   A.   Upon those streets which are so marked by the painting of the curb and
street to indicate that angle of parking.
   B.   4th Avenue, on the east side from 6th Street to 7th Street.
   C.   7th Street, on the south side from 4th Avenue to 5th Avenue.
   D.   5th Avenue, on the west side from 6th Street to 7th Street.
   E.   6th Street, on the north side from 4th Avenue to 5th Avenue.
2.   Straight-in parking shall be permitted in the following locations:
   A.   Upon those streets which are so marked either by the placing of proper
signs or by the painting of the curb and the street to indicate straight-in
parking.
   B.   Durant Community School. The northerly 300 feet of 7th Street between
4th Avenue and 5th Avenue; the westerly 120 feet of 5th Avenue north of 7th
Street.
   C.   Gloria Dei Lutheran Church. The southerly 275 feet of 7th Street west
of 4th Avenue; the westerly 150 feet of 4th Avenue south of 7th Street.
   D.   Jaycee Park. The northerly 300 feet of 6th Street between 10th Avenue
and 11th Avenue.
   E.   Russelloy Iron Foundry LLC. The southerly 165 feet of 4th Street west
of 11th Avenue.
   F.   Durant Municipal Electric. The southerly 150 feet of 6th Street east of
6th Avenue.
   G.   510 5th Street and 506 6th Avenue. The westerly 220 feet of 6th Avenue
north of 5th Street.
   H.   Dew Drop Inn. The easterly 150 feet of 6th Avenue north of 5th Street.
   I.   624 5th Street. The westerly 150 feet of 7th Avenue north of 5th
Street.
   J.   Liberty Trust & Savings Bank. The westerly 150 feet of 8th Avenue north
of 5th Street.
   K.   Liberty Insurance Agency. The easterly 150 feet of 8th Avenue north of
5th Street.
   L.   Dr. Richard Grunder. The westerly 130 feet of 9th Avenue north of 5th
Street.
   M.   Durant Chiropractic Clinic. The easterly 130 feet of 9th Avenue north
of 5th Street.
   N.   Jeff’s Market. The westerly 75 feet of 6th Avenue south of 5th Street.
   O.   Price Oil. The easterly 75 feet of 6th Avenue south of 5th Street.
   P.   Hein Manor. The westerly 85 feet of 9th Avenue south of 3rd Street.
3.   Time Restrictions. No person shall park a vehicle in any of the three
parking spaces located along the north line of 5th Street and immediately in
front of the United State Post Office except while engaged in business at the
Post Office, and any such parking shall be limited to a maximum time period of
ten minutes. However, said time restriction of these three parking spaces shall
apply only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Monday through
Saturday. Prior to 6:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday or
at any time on Sunday, these three parking spaces may be used for general
parking, subject only to such other restrictions as may pertain to these
parking spaces in other provision of the City code.
(Subsection 3 – Ord. 2021-04 – Oct. 21 Supp.)
69.04   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load thereon, when
said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into
the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to
the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property, unless otherwise limited
under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of the following principal
purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing, or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a duly
established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code of
Ordinances.
69.06   PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an intersection
of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction
when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at
the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
14.   Churches, Nursing Homes, and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the width
of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
17.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line. That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
18.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any part
of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
19.   Upon any portion of the right-of-way of 5th Street from the east
corporate limit of the City to the west corporate limit of the City, except
where designated.
20.   On the north side of 7th Street, from 2nd Avenue to 125 feet east of 3rd
Avenue between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 9:30 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
on school days.
21.   Contrary to any officially placed signs or painted markings on either the
curb or the street indicating parking restrictions or prohibitions.
22.   Within the radius of any cul-de-sac.
23.   Opposite the entrance to a garage or driveway in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than 20 feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Subsection 23 – Ord. 2021-04 – Oct. 21 Supp.)
69.07   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
   A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
   B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with disabilities
parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or being
transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
   C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section 321L.8
of the Code of Iowa.
3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
   A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must comply
with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when utilizing
a wheelchair parking cone.
   B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
4.   Persons with Disabilities Parking Spaces. The following parking spaces
shall be designated persons with disabilities parking spaces and shall be
appropriately marked and signed according to State regulations:
   A.   Community Center. Two parking spaces and one unloading space on 5th
Avenue.
   B.   City Hall. Two parking spaces on 6th Street.
   C.   Liberty Insurance Agency. One parking space on 8th Avenue.
   D.   Liberty Trust & Savings Bank. One parking space on 8th Avenue.
   E.   Post Office. Two parking spaces on 5th Street
   F.   Dr. Richard Grunder. One parking space on 9th Avenue.
   G.   Durant Chiropractic Clinic. One parking space on 9th Avenue.
   H.   Durant Municipal Electric Plant. One parking space on 4th Street.
   I.   Durant Community School. Two parking spaces on 6th Avenue.
   J.   Gloria Dei Lutheran Church. Four parking spaces on 4th Avenue.
5.   Persons With Disabilities Parking In Business District. The purpose of
this subsection is to establish and define a Business District for the purpose
of public parking and designating the appropriate percentage of parking spaces
for persons with disabilities in accordance with Chapter 321L.5(4) of the Code
of Iowa. The said Business District being established and defined is described
as follows:
   A.   5th Street, from 10th Avenue to 5th Avenue (north of right-of-way).
   B.   6th Avenue, from 5th Street north to alley between 5th and 6th Street
(both sides of the right-of-way).
   C.   8th Avenue, from 5th Street north to alley between 5th and 6th Street
(both sides of the right-of-way).
   D.   5th Street, from the west side of 6th Avenue to 150 feet west of the
intersection of 5th Avenue and 5th Street.
   E.   5th Street, from the east side of the intersection of 7th Avenue to
13th Avenue.
69.08   NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following specifically
designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer or traffic
control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   5th Street, on the north and south sides from West 2nd Avenue to 5th
Avenue.
2.   5th Street, on north and south sides from 9th Avenue to 14th Avenue.
69.09   ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
No person, except physicians or other persons on emergency calls, shall park a
vehicle on any of the following named streets for a period of time longer than
30 minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. of any day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
69.10   TRUCK PARKING LIMITED.
No person shall park a motor truck, semi-trailer, or other motor vehicle with
trailer attached in violation of the following regulations. The provisions of
this section do not apply to pick-up, light delivery, or panel delivery trucks.
For purposes of this section, a “truck” means any vehicle used for hauling
goods or commodities which is seven feet or more in width or 19 feet or more in
length, and weighing seven tons or more.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Business District. Excepting only when such vehicles are actually engaged
in the delivery or receiving of merchandise or cargo within the prohibited
area, no person shall park or leave unattended such vehicle, on any of the
following designated streets. When actually receiving or delivering merchandise
or cargo such vehicle shall be stopped or parked in a manner that will not
interfere with other traffic.
   A.   4th Street, on the north and south sides from 2nd Avenue to 14th
Avenue.
2.   Certain Locations and Circumstances.
   A.   Upon any street in any area designated as R-1 single-family residential
and R-2 mixed residential by the Zoning Regulations for longer than one hour.
Trucks may be parked on private property of a driveway if driveway is
accessible from street. No truck traffic in alleys.
   B.   Upon seal-coated streets from 11th Street south to 2nd Street.
   C.   No truck, trailer, or any other vehicle shall be parked at any time in
the area bounded by the following described borders: the westerly right-of-way
line of 8th Avenue; the northerly right-of-way line of the former Chicago Rock
Island and Pacific Railroad Company right-of-way, now the right-of-way of Iowa
Interstate Railroad; the easterly right-of-way of 6th Avenue; and a northerly
boundary defined as the south border of Pythian Sisters Park and the south
borders of all other lots located west of Pythian Sisters Park and east of 6th
Avenue. The Police Chief is hereby authorized to cause NO PARKING signs to be
placed notifying the public of the above-referenced parking restrictions. The
penalty for violation of this subsection shall be a fine of not less than
$75.00 for any truck, trailer, or semi, and a fine of not less than $25.00 for
any other vehicle.
3.   All Night.
   A.   Permitted. Trucks may park overnight in the industrial park on the
following streets as long as the parking does not impede the industrial
companies normal truck traffic for deliveries and exiting trucks.
      (1)   West 1st Avenue and West 2nd Avenue
      (2)   Norfolk Drive
   B.   No such vehicle shall be left unattended or parked upon any of the
following designated streets or alleys for a period of time longer than one
hour between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. of any day.
      -NONE-
(Subsection 3 – Ord. 2021-04 – Oct. 21 Supp.)
4.   Noise. No such vehicle shall be left standing or parked upon any street,
alley, public or private parking lot, or drive of any service station between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. with the engine, auxiliary engine, air
compressor, refrigerating equipment or other device in operation giving off
audible sounds excepting only the drive of a service station when actually
being serviced, and then in no event for more than 30 minutes. It shall be
illegal to leave running an unattended motor vehicle for a period greater than
30 minutes. An exception to this rule would be allowed for delivery drivers or
vehicles while conducting routine business within the corporate limits of the
City.
5.   Livestock. No such vehicle containing livestock shall be parked on any
street, alley, or highway for a period of time of more than 30 minutes.
69.11   SNOW REMOVAL.
Snow and ice control are classified as emergency work and, therefore, City
streets must be cleared at any time of the day or night. These conditions can
begin as early as November 1 and continue through approximately April 15 of
each year.
The Public Works Department will make it a priority to maintain adequate
driving conditions. Depending upon the nature of the snow storm, City crews may
wait until the snow event becomes lighter or stops before they begin snow
removal. This does not necessarily mean dry pavement free of snow and ice but
will be the goal if possible. The use of salt and sand mixtures will be
employed for the melting of ice and hard packed snow. This mixture will only be
used when positive results can be expected.
1.   Snow Emergency. A snow emergency may be declared when two or more inches
of snow are forecast. However, additional factors such as ice, wind and/or rain
can also dictate the declaration of a snow emergency. During a snow emergency,
on-street parking is not allowed. No vehicle shall be parked in or on any part
of a public street or right-of-way of a public street during snow removal
operations. Drivers are encouraged to find alternate parking spots before the
first snow event. Violators will be ticketed first, and towed if not moved
within 24 hours from the time of the ticket. If a resident has a driveway or
garage apron on which to park, it is strongly suggested that these areas be
used.
2.   No parking shall be allowed between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
on either the north or south side of 5th Street between 5th Avenue and 9th
Avenue between the dates of November 15th and the following April 1st each
year. Any car or vehicle parked in violation of this paragraph may be
immediately towed at the owner’s expense upon the order of the Durant Police
Department or the Public Works Department. Signs shall be posted in the
affected area alerting the public of this special parking restriction.
3.   Equipment and Personnel. When snow and ice control operations are in
effect, all other operations of the Public Works Department will be of
secondary importance. The Public Works Supervisor and the Mayor have the
authority to contract with private equipment operators to assist in snow
removal when accumulations warrant their use. It is the intent of the Public
Works Department to use as much snow removal equipment on the streets as
possible, however, provisions must be made for equipment down time.
4.   Snow Routes. A system of unmarked snow routes has been established for
effective snow removal on the collector and arterial streets. These snow routes
will provide service and direct access to schools, businesses, and emergency
response vehicles (fire, ambulance, and police stations). 5th Street from the
western corporate boundary to the eastern corporate boundary will be priority.
When the accumulations of plowed snow reaches the point that vehicular parking
areas are filled, making on-street parking impossible, hauling of snow from the
Central Business District will be implemented. Even though a street has been
plowed, it may remain hazardous due to ice or additional fallen snow. Residents
should continue to maintain extreme caution while driving or walking as slick
spots are likely to remain.
5.   Monitoring Snow Events. The Public Works Department will continuously
monitor weather reports when inclement weather is approaching. The Police
Department, Public Works, and Mayor shall also keep each other informed of
forecasted snow events, their timing, and intensity. During evening hours, the
Police Department shall monitor weather reports and road conditions and notify
the Public Works Supervisor. The Public Works Director shall notify the Mayor
when snow removal or salting operations need to begin.
6.   Snow Removal From Private Property. City snow plows will not clear private
property or businesses unless to allow access by emergency vehicles. Snow
placed in private driveways by City plows is a natural process as a result of
clearing the streets. Its removal is the responsibility of the property owner.
Snow from private property may not be dumped or piled on City streets or
parking areas. Snow from a private driveway or business must be piled in a
manner that does not obstruct the view of motorists or pedestrians. Private
snow removal services shall not push snow across City streets or alleys from
private property. All snow removal from property must stay on said property.
7.   Safety. Safety is very important to any snow emergency. The public is
encouraged to contact the City to report hazardous conditions or downed traffic
signs or overhead power lines.
8.   Summary. Notifications of Snow Emergencies shall be made by best efforts
of the City through local TV news channels, City Facebook page, and Wireless
Emergency Notification System. However, everyone should realize any time two
inches or more is predicted, it is automatically a Snow Emergency, and no
parking on streets will be enforced during snow removal.
69.12   SNOW ROUTES.
The Council may designate certain streets in the City as snow routes. When
conditions of snow or ice exist on the traffic surface of a designated snow
route, it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to impede or block traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[12])
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate a
combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner of
Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of the
Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of those
violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
70.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
office of the City Clerk. The fine for each violation charged under a simple
notice of a fine shall be in the amount of $25.00 for all violations except
fire zone or obstructing access to a fire hydrant parking violations and
improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit. The fine for fire
zone or obstructing access to a fire hydrant parking violations is $200.00 and
the fine for improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit is
$100.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b] and 321L.4[2])
70.04   PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information was
parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot, or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
3.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period of 48 hours or more in violation of any limited parking time.
If the owner can be located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
(Subsection 4 – Ord. 2021-04 – Oct. 21 Supp.)
5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or driver
of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 71
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT
 
71.01 Findings 71.02 Automated Traffic Enforcement
 
71.01   FINDINGS.
Having been presented with information and opinions concerning Automated
Traffic Enforcement (“ATE”), the Durant City Council finds as follows:
1.   The use of ATE advances public interests of traffic safety and safety of
emergency responders, as well as the interests of Durant taxpayers in cost
effective enforcement of traffic laws;   
(Subsection 1 – Ord. 2023-03 – May 24 Supp.)
2.   The use of ATE devices which captures an image of the front or the rear
license plate strikes a desirable balance between the above stated public
interests and privacy interests of the motoring public;   
(Subsection 2 – Ord. 2023-03 – May 24 Supp.)
3.   The National Law Enforcement Telecommunications System (“Nlets”) is a
cost-effective means for determining ownership of vehicles detected as
traveling in violation of traffic laws within the City limits of Durant; and
the technology underlying ATE self-calibrating and reliable, and its accuracy
is readily verifiable.
71.02   AUTOMATED TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT.
1.   General. In accordance with is police powers, the City may deploy, erect
or cause to have erected an automated traffic enforcement system for capturing
images of motor vehicles that violate traffic laws by failing to obey red light
traffic signals at intersections designated by the City Manager or designee or
failing to obey speed regulations with in the City. The system may be managed
by a private contractor that owns and operates the requisite equipment. The
Police Department shall retain supervisory control over the system. The
contractor shall provide photographic and/or video images of any potential
violations to the Police Department to review and, in the event the Police
Department determines a vehicle was operated in violation of the City’s traffic
control ordinances, the Police Department shall direct that a notice of
Automated Traffic Citation be issued to the vehicle owner in accordance with
this Chapter 71.
2.   Definitions.
   A.   Automated Traffic Citation shall mean a notice of violation generated
in connection with the automated traffic enforcement system.
   B.   Automated Traffic Enforcement Contractor shall mean the company or
entity, if any, with which the City of Durant contracts to provide equipment
and/or services in connection with the Automated Traffic Enforcement System.
   C.   Automated Traffic Enforcement System shall mean an electronic system
consisting of a photographic, video, or electronic camera and a vehicle sensor
installed to work in conjunction with an official traffic controller or Police
Department employee to automatically produce photographs, video or digital
images of each vehicle violating a standard traffic control device or speed
restriction.
   D.   Vehicle Owner shall mean the person or entity identified by the Iowa
Department of Transportation, or identified by any other state vehicle
registration office, as the registered owner of a vehicle detected violating a
traffic law by failing to obey red light traffic signals at intersections
designated by the City Manager or official designee or failing to obey speed
regulations within the City. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the
Iowa Department of Transportation or any other state vehicle registration
office identifies a person or entity as the lessee of the vehicle, that lessee
shall be the vehicle owner for purposes of this Chapter 71. In the event a
state registration office does not specify whether a person or entity listed on
the registration for the vehicle is the owner or the lessee of the vehicles,
any person or entity listed on that vehicle registration may be deemed the
vehicle owner and held jointly and severally responsible for a violation of
this section.
3.   Vehicle Owner Subject to Civil Fine for Automated Traffic Citations.
   A.   If a vehicle is detected traveling at a speed above the posted limit,
the vehicle owner shall be subject to a civil fine as scheduled below in sub
Section 71.02(4)(B).
   B.   Exemptions from this 71.02 are set forth in Subsection 71.02(7), and
shall not be considered violations for purposes of the Automated Traffic
Enforcement System.
   C.   In no event will an Automated Traffic Citation be sent or reported to
the Iowa Department of Transportation or similar department of any other state
for the purpose of being added to the vehicle owner’s driving record.
4.   Notice of Automated Traffic Citations; Fines.
   A.   Upon a Durant Police Officer’s determination that the Automated Traffic
Enforcement System has detected a violation described in Sections 71.02, a
notice of an Automated Traffic Citation will be mailed to the vehicle owner for
each such violation recorded by the Automated Traffic Enforcement System. The
Automated Traffic Enforcement Contractor shall mail the notice within 30 days
after receiving information about the vehicle owner. The notice shall include
the name and address of the vehicle owner; the vehicle make, if available and
readily discernible; the vehicle registration number; the violation alleged;
the time, date, and location of the alleged violation; the applicable fine;
information as to the manner in which Automated Traffic Citation may be
challenged; and that the basis of the notice is a photographic or video record
generated by an Automatic Traffic Enforcement System.
   B.   Any violation of Subsection 71.02 above shall be subject to a civil
fine as scheduled in the table below, and the fine for any violation committed
in a designated construction zone (as provided by the Code of Iowa), shall be
doubled, as scheduled below, subject in any event to the limit on fines sought
in municipal infractions.
 
1 through 5 miles per hour (“MPHNo Fine
6 through 10 MPH                   No Fine
11 through 20 MPH                  $75.00
21 through 25 MPH                  $100.00
26 through 30 MPH                  $125.00
Over 30 MPH                        $200.00
Speed over the limit if in construction zone - doubled
 
5.   Challenging An Automated Traffic Citation. Within 30 days from the date
appearing at the top of a notice of Automated Traffic Citation sent to the
vehicle owner, the vehicle owner may either pay the fee associated with the
citation or challenge the citation by submitting a written challenge to the
citation or requesting that municipal infraction be filed pursuant to Iowa Code
364.22. Any such written challenge or request must be on a form specified by
and available from the City as indicated on the notice, and be sent to the City
according to the instructions on that form. Upon receipt of a written
challenge, a Durant Police Officer shall determine whether the citation should
be rescinded. Within 30 days after the City receives such a challenge, the City
shall notify the vehicle owner whether the challenge to the Automated Traffic
Citation is successful, in which case, the citation shall be rescinded.
Otherwise, the citation shall stand. Thereafter, the City may seek voluntary
payment and/or file the citation as a municipal infraction against the vehicle
owner, all as set forth in Subsection 6 hereof.
6.   Failure To Timely Pay Or Challenge Automated Traffic Citation. If the
recipient of an Automated Traffic Citation does not wither pay the fine by the
due date stated on the original citation or successfully challenge the citation
as provided herein, the City may file a municipal infraction against the
vehicle owner in accordance with Durant Code of Ordinances Chapter 4 Section
4.03 and 364.22 of the Code of Iowa, seeking judgement for applicable civil
fine provided in Subsections 71.02 and 4 plus State mandated filing fee and
court costs. If judgement is entered for the City in the municipal infraction
proceeding, the City may, subject to applicable law, pursue enforcement of the
judgement together with interest as permitted by law. Collection of that
judgement may include referral to the State of Iowa Income Offset program
administered by the Department of Administrative Services, State Accounting
Enterprise. Notwithstanding the City’s right to file a municipal infraction,
the City may first seek voluntary payment of the fine by sending a written
request for payment to the vehicle/owner or referring the matter to a private
service agent to conduct collection in accordance with all applicable law.
7.   Exemptions From Section 71.02. The following shall not be considered
violations for purposes of the Automated Traffic Enforcement System.
   A.   The operator of the vehicle in question was issued a uniform traffic
citation for the violation in question pursuant to Durant Code of Ordinance
71.02 or Chapter 321 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   The violation occurred at any time after the vehicle in question or its
state registration plates were reported to a law enforcement agency as having
been stolen, provided, however, the vehicle or its plates had not been
recovered by the vehicle owner at the time of the alleged violation.
   C.   The vehicle in question was an authorized emergency vehicle.
   D.   The Durant Police Officer inspecting the recorded image determines that
the vehicle in question entered the intersection in order to yield the right-
of-way to an emergency vehicle.
   E.   The Durant Police Officer inspecting the recorded image determines that
the vehicle in question was lawfully participating in a funeral procession. The
foregoing list of exemptions from Section 71.02 shall not be construed as
limiting the defenses available to challenge an Automated Traffic Citation or
defend a municipal infraction.
(Ch. 71 – Ord. 2022-01 – Jul. 22 Supp.)
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES (ATVS)
 
75.01 Definition  75.03 Equipment Required
75.02 Regulations
 
75.01   DEFINITION.
“All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized off-highway vehicle designed
to travel on not less than three, and no more than six (typically, four), low-
pressure or non-pneumatic tires, that is limited in engine displacement to less
than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to less than 1,200 pounds,
and having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for
steering control; with snow removal blade attached.
75.02   REGULATIONS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an ATV under the following
circumstances:
1.   No person shall operate an ATV in City limits except for the sole purpose
driving from property to another for the purpose of removing snow from the
properties from November 1 through April 1. Snow removal by ATV can be done
between the said dates after a snow emergency has been declared by the City. A
snow emergency may be declared when two or more inches of snow are predicted.
2.   No person shall operate and ATV in the City from 11:00 p.m. to 6:30 a.m.
except for the purpose of loading or unloading said vehicles from one vehicle
or trailer to another.
3.   ATVs can only be operated on private properties with the express
permission to do so by the owner or occupant of said property.
4.   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, recreational areas,
and gold courses without express permission to do so by the proper public
authority.
5.   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise so as to
disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons. ATVS may only
be operated for snow removal after two or more inches have fallen.
6.   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger the safety
of any person or property of any other person.
7.   Without having such ATV registered as provided by the Iowa Statute.
8.   Within the right-of-way of any public street or alley within the City
unless operator has a valid driver’s license or instruction permit and
accompanied by a qualified licensed driver, occupying a seat on the vehicle
while performing snow removal.
75.03   EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
All ATVs operated within the City shall have the following equipment:
1.   Mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the noise of
operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operating the
vehicle, and no person shall use a muffler cut-out, bypass, or similar device
on said vehicle.
2.   Adequate brakes in good condition, and at least one headlight and one
taillight.
3.   A safety or so-called “dead-man” throttle in operating condition. A safety
or “dead-man” throttle is defined as a device which, when pressure is removed
from the accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be disengaged from the
driving track or wheels.
4.   A slow moving vehicle sign and bicycle flag. The flag shall be five feet
from the ground level with a minimum of two feet above the highest point of the
ATV.
5.   Any person operating an ATV upon City streets and rights-of-way shall be a
valid licensed driver of 18 years of age or older. Any person operating these
vehicles shall strictly adhere to all traffic signs, signals, and all other
traffic rules and regulations and shall obey the orders and direction of any
law enforcement officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
6.   No ATV may operate on any City street at a speed in excess of 25 miles per
hour or any City streets that posted are greater than 25 miles per hour, nor
shall any ATV be operated at a speed greater than is reasonable and proper for
the existing weather and road conditions.
CHAPTER 76
UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES (UTVS)
 
76.01 Purpose                     76.08 Traffic Code
76.02 Definitions                 76.09 Parking
76.03 General Specifications      76.10 Storage of UTVs
76.04 Operation of UTVs Permitted 76.11 Permits
76.05 Equipment                   76.12 Negligence
76.06 Hours                       76.13 Accident Reports
76.07 Inclement Weather           76.14 Violation and Penalty
 
76.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of utility terrain
vehicles (UTVs) within the City corporate limits. All persons operating UTVs
must be observant of and attentive to the safety of themselves and others,
including their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and other pedestrians.
All persons who operate or ride UTVs on streets inside the corporate limits of
City do so at their own risk. The City assumes no liability for permitting any
individual or group of UTVs to be operated on the streets, and all operators
and owners of said UTVs agree to indemnify and hold the City harmless
therefrom. The City has no liability for permitting UTVs to be operated on the
streets.
76.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, “off-road utility vehicle” or “UTV” means a motorized
vehicle, with not less than four, and not more than eight, non-highway tires or
rubberized tracks, that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not
intended to be straddled by the operator, and a steering wheel or control
levers for control. UTVs can be referred to as side-by-side and recreational
off-highway vehicles. The term UTV does not include golf carts, all-terrain
vehicles, motorbikes, or snowmobiles, or vehicles specifically designed to
carry a disabled person, implement of husbandry as defined in Section 321.1(32)
of the Code of Iowa.
76.03   GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS.
All UTVs permitted by the City are required to be registered with the State of
Iowa in the applicable County of the owner’s residence, and the UTV shall meet
all requirements of the Code of Iowa and its applicable policies and procedures
by any related State agencies.
76.04   OPERATION OF UTVS PERMITTED.
UTVS may be operated upon the streets of the City by persons who are 18 years
of age or older. All owners or operators must obtain a City permit from the
Police Department and possess a valid driver’s license. While operated on a
City street, the number of passengers permitted on a UTV shall not exceed the
number of seats for intended passengers. Children may be passengers on UTVs if
guidelines for child restraint laws in Iowa are met and followed. Operators
must have proof of insurance on them with their driver’s license while
operating a UTV on City streets. All persons driving or riding in a UTV shall
have seat belts on.
76.05   EQUIPMENT.
UTVs operating on City streets shall be equipped with at least the following
equipment:
1.   A slow moving vehicle sign and a bicycle safety flag, whereby the flag
shall be a minimum five feet from the ground level and extend a minimum two
feet above the highest point of the UTV.
2.   Tail light, two head lights, muffler, turn signals, brakes to stop and
hold vehicle in position, seat belts or harness system. All child restraint
laws and guidelines must be met and followed.
3.   Steering wheel and no straddled seats.
4.   Seating for minimum of two occupants on non-straddled seats.
5.   A roll bar or similar device.
6.   Not less than four, and not more than eight, non-highway tires, low
pressure tires, or rubberized tracks
7.   No modifications to muffler systems allowed.
76.06   HOURS.
UTVs may be operated on City streets only from one hour before sunrise until
11:00 p.m.
76.07   INCLEMENT WEATHER.
UTVS are prohibited on City streets during inclement weather when visibility is
reduced or impaired by rain, snow, sleet, smoke, fog, or other conditions or at
any other time there is insufficient light to clearly see a person or vehicle
on a roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
76.08   TRAFFIC CODE.
Any person operating a UTV on any public street or alley for any purpose shall
strictly adhere to all traffic signs and signals and other traffic rules and
regulations, and shall obey the orders and direction of any law enforcement
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic. No person shall leave a UTV
unattended on any public property while the motor is running or keys are in
ignition switch.
1.   No UTV shall be operated at a speed in excess of the legal speed limit,
per Section 321.285 of the Code of Iowa, nor shall any UTV be operated at a
speed greater than is reasonable and proper for the existing street conditions.
2.   All UTVS must cross at an approximate 90 degree angle to the direction of
the street.
3.   In the City, 5th Street is also HWY 927 (Historic HWY 6). For the purposes
of this chapter it shall be referred to as 5th Street and shall include all
areas from the west corporate City line to the east corporate City line.
4.   No UTVS shall operate or drive on railroad property.
5.   No UTV shall be operated upon 5th Street.
6.   The following intersections will not be used for crossing 5th Street:
   Left blank for future use.
(Subsection 6 – Ord. 2021-06 – Jan. 22 Supp.)
76.09   PARKING.
UTVs shall adhere to the same parking laws as automobiles (See
Chapter 69 of this Code of Ordinances). There will be no UTV parking on 5th
Street. Owners or operators of UTVs shall utilize their own driveways for
parking at their properties.
76.10   STORAGE OF UTVS.
UTVs shall be in an enclosed garage or shed. No parking overnight in yards or
streets. If the owner or operator does not have an enclosed space, they will
follow the same criteria as the recreational vehicle storage requirements in
Section
165.21 of this Code of Ordinances.
76.11   PERMITS.
No person shall operate a UTV on any public street or alley for any purpose
unless the UTV has passed a safety inspection by the Police Department and the
operator possesses a City permit to operate a UTV issued by the Police Chief.
Any non-resident of the City that would like the privilege of operating a UTV
within City limits will need to register for a permit.
1.   Owners may apply for a permit from the Police Department on forms provided
by the City.
2.   The Police Chief shall not issue a permit until the owner or operator has
provided the following:
   A.   Evidence that the owner possess a valid driver’s license and is at
least 18 years of age.
   B.   Proof the owner or operator has liability insurance (minimum limit of
$300,000.00 coverage) covering operation of UTVs on City streets.
3.   Permit and proof of insurance must be kept in the UTV at all times.
4.   Permits expire annually on December 31, regardless of date of issue.
5.   The permit may be suspended or revoked upon finding evidence that the
permit holder has violated the conditions of the permit, has abused the
privilege of being a permit holder, or has violated an applicable State,
County, or City law. There will be no refund of the permit fee. The suspension
or revocation may be appealed to the City Council within 10 days of the date of
mailing of the written notice of suspension or revocation of the permit. The
owner shall request the appeal in writing and submit the same to the City Clerk
within the prescribed time period. There will be no tolerance of UTVs speeding
and driving recklessly on City streets or alleys.
6.   No UTVs are permitted on any sidewalks in the City limits. No UTVs are
permitted in City parks unless prior approval from Council has been given at a
prior Council meeting before a City-wide event. This shall not apply to City
personnel.
(Section 76.11 - Ord. 2022-04 - Jul. 22 Supp.)
76.12   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner or operator of a UTV are liable for any injury or damage occasioned
by the negligent operation of the UTV. The owner of a UTV shall be liable for
any such injury or damage by the operator of the UTV at the time the injury or
damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent to operate the UTV
at the time the injury or damage occurred. The City shall not have any
liability for any injury or damage to person or property caused by any UTV,
whether or not permitted by the City or operated within the City limits. Any
operator or owner of any UTV operated or permitted within the City acknowledges
that they are solely and individually responsible for any injury or damage to
person or property, whether passenger, operator, owner, automobile operator, or
passenger and that by accepting a permit by the City, they agree to indemnify
and hold harmless the City therein from any claims of injury or damage to
persons or property under this Code of Ordinances.
76.13   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Either the operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify
the Police Department or other law enforcement via dialing 9-1-1 whenever a UTV
is involved in an accident resulting in injury or death or property damage
amounting to $1,000.00 or more, and shall file an accident report within 48
hours in accordance with State law.
76.14   VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
1.   A person guilty of violating the provisions herein shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a minimum fine of $100.00 plus applicable
court costs and criminal surcharge and may be subject to revocation of the City
permit for a period of six months.
2.   Any person guilty of violating this chapter two times shall be subject to
a $250.00 fine and may be subject to permanent revocation of the City permit
and revocation of privileges to operate any UTV within City limits.
3.   Persons violating this chapter may also be prosecuted and subject to
penalties set out in Section 321(I).36 of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 77
SNOWMOBILES
 
77.01 Definitions 77.03 Equipment Required
77.02 Regulations
 
77.01   DEFINITIONS.
1.   “Snowmobile” means a self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or
ice in a natural terrain, steered by wheels, skis, or runners.
2.   “Operate” means to control the operation of a snowmobile.
3.   “Operator” means a person who operates, or is in actual control of, a
snowmobile.
77.02   REGULATIONS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile under the following
circumstances:
1.   On private property of another without the express permission to do so by
the owner or occupant of said property.
2.   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, recreational areas,
and golf courses without express permission to do so by the proper public
authority.
3.   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise so as to
disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons.
4.   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger the safety
of any person or property of any other person.
5.   Without having such snowmobile registered as provided for by Iowa Statute,
except that this provision shall not apply to the operation of a snowmobile on
the private property of the owner by the owner or a member of his immediate
family.
6.   Within the right-of-way of any public street or alley within the City
unless the operator shall have a valid driver’s license or an instruction
permit and is accompanied by a qualified licensed driver who is actually
occupying a seat in the vehicle.
7.   No person shall operate a snowmobile in the City from 11:00 p.m. to 6:30
a.m., except for the purpose of loading and unloading a snowmobile from another
vehicle or trailer.
77.03   EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
All snowmobiles operated within the City shall have the following equipment:
1.   Mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the noise of
operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operating the
vehicle. No person shall use a muffler cut-out, bypass, or similar device on
said vehicle.
2.   Adequate brakes in good condition, and at least one headlight and one
taillight.
3.   A safety or so-called “dead-man” throttle in operating condition. A safety
or “dead-man” throttle is defined as a device which, when pressure is removed
from the accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be disengaged from the
driving track.
CHAPTER 78
GOLF CARTS
 
78.01 Purpose                           78.08  Parking
78.02 Definitions                       78.09  Storage
78.03 Operation of Golf Carts Permitted 78.10 Permits
78.04 Equipment                         78.11
                                        Negligence
78.05 Hours                             78.12 Accident Reports
78.06 Inclement Weather                 78.13 Violation and Penalty
78.07 Traffic Code                      78.14  Review
 
78.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to permit the operation of golf carts within the
City corporate limits on certain City streets as authorized by Section 321.247
of the Code of Iowa, as amended. This chapter applies whenever a golf cart is
operated on any street or alley of the City. All persons operating golf carts
must be observant of and attentive to the safety of themselves and others,
including their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and other pedestrians.
All persons who operate or ride golf carts on streets inside the corporate
limits of the City do so at their own risk. The City assumes no liability for
permitting any individual or group of golf carts to be operated on the streets,
and all operators and owners of said golf carts agree to indemnify and hold the
City harmless therefrom.
78.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, “golf cart” means a three- or four-wheeled
recreational vehicle generally used for transportation of persons in the sport
of golf, and has a gasoline displacement of less than 800 cubic centimeters or
is electrically powered. No golf cart may be modified from factory
specifications except to comply with the requirements set forth in this
chapter.
78.03   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS PERMITTED.
Golf carts may be operated upon the streets of the City by persons who are 18
years of age or older. All owners or operators must obtain a City permit from
the Police Department and possession a valid driver’s license. While operated
on a City street, the number of passengers permitted on a golf cart shall not
exceed the number of seats belts for intended passengers. Children may be
passengers on golf carts if guidelines for child restraint laws in Iowa are met
and followed. Operators must have proof of insurance on them with their
driver’s license while operating the golf carts on City streets. All persons
driving or riding in golf carts shall have seat belts on. Any non-resident of
the City that would like the privilege of operating a golf cart within City
limits shall register for a permit.
78.04   EQUIPMENT.
Golf carts operating on City streets shall be equipped with at least the
following equipment:
1.   A slow moving vehicle sign and a bicycle safety flag, whereby the flag
shall be a minimum five feet from the ground level and extend a minimum two
feet above the highest point of the golf cart.
2.   Golf carts shall be equipped with brake lights, headlights, brakes to stop
and hold vehicle in position, seat belts, or harness system. In any golf carts
that are not equipped with turn signals, operators shall use hand signals. Any
golf carts operating in dark hours, shall be equipped with turn signals. The
use of hand signals shall only be accepted during daylight hours. Children may
be passengers on golf carts if guidelines for child restraint laws in Iowa are
met and followed.   
(Subsection 2 – Ord. 2023-04 – May 24 Supp.)
3.   Steering wheel. No straddle seats.   
(Subsection 3 – Ord. 2023-04 – May 24 Supp.)
4.   Rearview mirror on driver’s side.
5.   No towing of anything, or pulling by human person, behind the golf cart
allowed.
6.   No modifications to the muffler system shall be allowed.
78.05   HOURS.
Golf carts may be operated on City streets only from sunrise to sunset. (Iowa
Code 321.247) Golf carts used for snowplowing, equipped with blade, can be used
for plowing only, on private property, from November l to April 1.   
(Ord. 2024-03 – May 24 Supp.)
78.06   INCLEMENT WEATHER.
Golf carts are prohibited on City streets during inclement weather when
visibility is reduced or impaired by rain, snow, sleet, smoke, fog, or other
conditions, or at any other time there is insufficient light to clearly see a
person or vehicle on a roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
78.07   TRAFFIC CODE.
1.   All golf cart operators shall come to a complete stop at all stop signs.
2.   Any person operating a golf cart on any public street or alley for any
purpose shall strictly adhere to all traffic signs and signals and other
traffic rules and regulations, and shall obey the orders and direction of any
law enforcement officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
3.   No golf carts shall be operated at a speed in excess of the lesser of 25
miles per hour or the posted speed. Nor shall any golf carts be modified to
operate at a greater speed than 25 miles per hour. No golf cart shall be
operated at a speed greater than is reasonable and proper for the existing
street conditions.
4.   All golf carts must cross at an approximate 90 degree angle to the
direction of the street.
5.   No person shall leave a golf cart unattended on any public property with
motor running or key in ignition.
6.   No golf cart shall be operated in or on any park, playground, sidewalk,
recreational bike or walking path, or upon any public property except with
permission of the governing body thereof. Golf carts shall not be operated upon
the portion of street right-of-way between the curb and edge of the street
paving or other surface and the sidewalk generally referred to as the
“parking.”
7.   In the City 5th Street is also Highway 927 (Historic Highway 6). For the
purposes of this chapter, it shall be referred to as 5th Street and include all
areas from the west corporate City line to the east corporate City line.
8.   No golf carts shall operate or drive on railroad property
9.   No golf carts shall be operated upon 5th Street.
10.   No golf carts shall be operated on 1st Avenue (Yankee Avenue).
11.   No golf carts shall be operated on Vail Ave (14th Ave South of 5th
Street).
12.   The following intersections will be NOT be used for crossing 5th Street:
   A.   At 14th Ave (Vail Ave) south of 5th Street.
   B.   (Repealed by Ordinance No. 2021-05 – Jan. 22 Supp.)
   C.   (Repealed by Ordinance No. 2021-05 – Jan. 22 Supp.)
(Subsections 7-12 - Ord. 2021-04 - Oct. 21 Supp.)
78.08   PARKING.
Golf carts shall adhere to the same parking laws as automobiles. There will be
no parking on 5th Street. Owners or operators shall utilize their own driveways
for parking at their properties. No golf carts shall be parked upon any public
sidewalk.
(Ord. 2021-04 - Oct. 21 Supp.)
78.09   STORAGE.
Golf carts shall be in an enclosed garage or shed. No parking overnight in
yards or streets. If the owner or operator does not have an enclosed space,
they will follow the same criteria as the recreational vehicle Section 165.21
of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2021-04 - Oct. 21 Supp.)
78.10   PERMITS.
No person shall operate a golf cart on any public street or alley, for any
purpose unless the golf cart has passed a safety inspection by the Police
Department and the operator possesses a City permit to operate a golf cart,
issued by the Chief of Police or designated officer. Any non-resident of the
City that would like the privilege of operating a golf cart within City limits
will need to register for a permit.
1.   Owners may apply for a permit from the Police Department on forms provided
by the City.
2.   The Police Chief shall not issue a permit until the owner or operator has
provided the following:
   A.   Evidence that the owner possesses a valid driver’s license and is at
least 18 years of age.
   B.   Proof the owner or operator has liability insurance (minimum limit of
$300,000 coverage) covering operation of golf carts on City streets.
3.   Permit and proof of insurance must be kept in the golf carts at all times.
4.   The annual permit fee if any, shall be set by resolution by Council.
(Subsection 4 – Ord. 2023-04 – May 24 Supp.)
5.   Permits expire annually on December 31, regardless of date of issue.
6.   The permit may be suspended or revoked upon finding evidence that the
permit holder has violated the conditions of the permit, has abused the
privilege of being a permit holder or has violated an applicable State, County,
or City law. There will be no refund of the permit fee. The suspension or
revocation may be appealed to the Council within 10 days of the date of mailing
of the written notice of suspension or revocation of the permit. The owner
shall request the appeal in writing and submit the same to the Clerk within the
prescribed time period. There will no tolerance of golf carts speeding and
driving recklessly on City streets or alleys.
7.   No golf carts are permitted on any sidewalks in the City limits. No golf
carts are permitted in City parks unless prior approval from Council has been
given at a prior Council meeting before a City wide event. All City personnel
shall be exempt.
(Section 78.10 - Ord. 2021-04 - Oct. 21 Supp.)
78.11   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of a golf carts are liable for any injury or damage
occasioned by the negligent operation of the golf cart. The owner of a golf
cart shall be liable for any such injury or damage by the operator of the golf
cart at the time the injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the
owner’s consent to operate the golf cart at the time the injury or damage
occurred. The City shall not have any liability for any injury or damage to
person or property caused by any golf carts whether or not permitted by the
City or operated within the City limits. Any operator or owner of any golf cart
operated or permitted within the City acknowledges that they are solely and
individually responsible for any injury or damage to person or property whether
passenger, operator, owner, automobile operator or passenger and that by
accepting a permit by the City, they agree to indemnify and hold harmless the
City therein from any claims of injury or damage to persons or property under
this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-04 - Oct. 21 Supp.)
78.12   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Either the operator or someone acting for the operator, shall immediately
notify the Police Department or other law enforcement via dialing 911 whenever
a golf cart is involved in an accident resulting in injury, or death, or
property damage amounting to $1,000.00 or more and shall file an accident
report within 48 hours in accordance with State law.
(Ord. 2021-04 - Oct. 21 Supp.)
78.13   VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
1.   A person guilty of violating the provisions herein shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a minimum fine of $100.00 fine plus
applicable courts and criminal surcharge and may be subject to revocation of
the City permit for a period of six months.
2.   Any person guilty of violating this ordinance two times shall be subject
to a $250.00 fine and may be subject to permanent revocation of the City permit
and revocation of privileges to operate any golf carts within City limits.
3.   Persons violating this chapter may also be prosecute and subject to
penalties set out in Section 321(I).36 of the Code of Iowa.
(Section 78.13 - Ord. 2021-04 - Oct. 21 Supp.)
78.14   REVIEW.
The Council shall reserve the right to an annual review whenever it deems good
cause exists for a review of the Code chapter. If no such amendment or repeal
occurs, then the ordinances shall continue as stated.
(Ord. 2021-04 – Oct. 21 Supp.)

CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                     80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of 80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                    Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                  80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Notification in Newspaper       80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] and Sec. 321.90)
1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
   A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
   B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more than
24 hours.
   C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private property
without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property for more
than 24 hours.
   D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
   E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority to
create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
   F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap, or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person in control of
private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to dispose
of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody the
abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
The police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall notify, within 20 days, by certified mail, the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle or to personal property found in the vehicle, addressed
to the parties’ last known addresses of record, that the abandoned vehicle has
been taken into custody. Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice
shall describe the year, make, model and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, describe the personal property found in the vehicle, set forth the
location of the facility where the vehicle is being held, and inform the
persons receiving the notice of their right to reclaim the vehicle and personal
property within 10 days after the effective date of the notice upon payment of
all towing, preservation, and storage charges resulting from placing the
vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of the notice. The notice
shall also state that the failure of the owner, lienholders, or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders and claimants
of all right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle or personal property
and that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is deemed consent
to the sale of the vehicle at a public auction or disposal of the vehicle to a
demolisher and to disposal of the personal property by sale or destruction. If
the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity without a
police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the private entity
may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90 of the Code of
Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the vehicle. If the abandoned
vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or by a private entity
hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that any person claiming
rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who disputes the
planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police authority or
private entity or of the assessment of fees and charges provided by this
section may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority to
contest those matters. If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing
or exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
10-day reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer
have any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal
property. A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right,
title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the
expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.04   NOTIFICATION IN NEWSPAPER.
If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Section
80.03. The published notice may contain multiple listings of abandoned vehicles
and personal property but shall be published within the same time requirements
and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed notice in Section
80.03.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3b])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost, or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification required, in
accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner of the motor
vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited in the
State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize the
amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply for
reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Definitions                        90.12 Responsibility for Water Service
                                         Pipe
90.02 Superintendent’s Duties          90.13 Failure to Maintain
90.03 Mandatory Connections              90.14 Curb Valve
90.04 Abandoned Connections              90.15 Interior Valve
90.05 Permit                             90.16 Inspection and Approval
90.06 Fee for Permit and Connection      90.17 Completion by the City
Charge
90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code      90.18 Shutting Off Water Supply
90.08 Plumber Required                   90.19 Operation of Curb Valve and
                                         Hydrants
90.09 Excavations                        90.20 Connections Before Permanent
                                         Improvements
90.10 Tapping Mains                      90.21 Non-Liability Of City
90.11 Installation of Water Service Pipe 90.22 Backflow Prevention Program
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
2.   “Corporation valve” means the valve located at the public water main,
buried underground. A corporation valve is brass and is used to open and close
off water service on a more permanent basis.
3.   “Curb stop valve” means the valve located behind the sidewalk on private
property. This valve can be accessed at ground level, commonly has a metal cap
on an extended pipe, and is used to open and close water service to a house or
building on a more regular basis.
4.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service from
the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties the
duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
5.   “Irrigation meter” means a meter used to measure outside water usage that
does not enter the sanitary sewer system.
6.   “Superintendent” means the Public Works Director of the City or any duly
authorized assistant, agent, or representative.
7.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
8.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
9.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for securing,
collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02   SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.
The Superintendent shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and
their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to
water services in the City in accordance with this chapter. This chapter shall
apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to new
ones. The Superintendent shall make such rules, not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of the
water system, subject to the approval of the Council. In the event of an
emergency the Superintendent may make temporary rules for the protection of the
system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
All residences, commercial establishments, industrial establishments, or other
structures or establishments located within the City limits intended or used
for human habitation, occupancy, or use shall be connected to the public water
system.
90.04   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned off
at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight.
90.05   PERMIT.
Before any person, firm, corporation, or other association shall make a
connection with the public water system, a written permit must be obtained from
the City. The application for the permit shall be filed with the City. The
application shall include a legal description of the property, the name of the
property owner, the name and address of the person who will do the work, and
the general uses of the water. No different or additional uses shall be allowed
except by written permission of the City. The Superintendent shall issue the
permit, bearing the Clerk’s signature and stating the date of issuance, if the
proposed work meets all the requirements of this chapter and if all fees
required under this chapter have been paid. Work under this permit must be
completed within six months after it is issued. The City may, at any time,
revoke the permit for any violation of this chapter and require that the work
be stopped.
90.06   FEE FOR PERMIT AND CONNECTION CHARGE.
Before any permit is issued the person who makes the application shall pay
$25.00 to the Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising,
regulating, and inspecting the work. In addition there shall be a connection
charge paid before issuance of a permit to reimburse the City for costs borne
by the City in making water service available to the property served in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Five cents per square foot for residential development
2.   Seven and one-half cents per square foot for commercial development
3.   One cent per square foot for industrial development
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural, or enforcement provisions, of the Uniform Plumbing
Code, laws of the State, and the Statewide Urban Design and Specifications
(SUDAS).
90.08   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installation of water service pipes and connections to the municipal water
system shall be made by a State-licensed plumber. The licensed plumber must
contact the City and be supervised by the Superintendent.
90.09   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the Uniform Plumbing
Code and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.10   TAPPING MAINS.
All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building, or premises shall
be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained from the
Superintendent and unless provision is made so that each house, building, or
premises may be shut off independently of the other.
2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter shall
receive no larger than a three-fourths inch tap. All mains of over six inches
in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Superintendent shall order. All taps in the mains shall
be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main shall be
tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Superintendent, shall be inserted in every tap in the main. The
corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service pipe.
4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Superintendent in such form as the
Superintendent shall require.
90.11   INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be Type K copper.
The use of any other pipe material for the service line shall first be approved
by the Superintendent. Pipe must be laid sufficiently waving, and to such
depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
90.12   RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the main to the building served
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss
or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation or
maintenance of said water service pipe. Service lines shall not be installed
across lots or to adjoining properties. In the event a service line develops a
leak, the property owner shall immediately cause the proper repairs to be made,
or install a new service line, and failure to do so shall subject the property
owner to discontinuance of water service.
90.13   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property. In the event the City makes any repairs to a service line, meter, or
fixture, the consumer shall be billed for the materials and labor and such bill
shall be paid within 30 days after presentation to the consumer. If said bill
is not paid within 30 days after presentation, the water service may be
discontinued immediately. The City may, in addition, at its election require
any such bills not paid within 30 days after presentation to be collected in
the manner of property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.14   CURB VALVE.
The plumber who makes the connection to the municipal water system shall
install a service shut-off valve of the inverted key type on the water service
pipe within the City right-of-way, and not in the path of any existing or
future sidewalk. The shut-off valve must have a suitable lock of a pattern
approved by the Superintendent. The shut-off valve shall be covered with a curb
box of a pattern approved by the City.
90.15   INTERIOR VALVE.
There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others.
90.16   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Superintendent before they are
covered, and the Superintendent shall keep a record of such approvals. If the
Superintendent refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must
proceed immediately to correct the work. Every person who uses or intends to
use the municipal water system shall permit the Superintendent to enter the
premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable
hours and on proof of authority.
90.17   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours after
the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system, or
should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish or
correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property owner
or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the costs
before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.18   SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
The Superintendent may shut off the supply of water to any customer because of
any violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service System
chapters that is not being contested in good faith. The supply shall not be
turned on again until all violations have been corrected and the Superintendent
has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.19   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
It is unlawful for any person except the Superintendent to turn water on at the
curb valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by the City, shall
open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
90.20   CONNECTIONS BEFORE PERMANENT IMPROVEMENTS.
When the Council has ordered a street to be permanently improved, a plat shall
be filed at the office of the Clerk showing the lots and the names of the
property owners in respect to the connection to the City water main to the curb
line of the individual properties. Following inspection of the individual
properties’ water lines which abut the scheduled street improvement by the
Superintendent, any property found to not have a three-quarter-inch copper
service line will be required to replace said line in the amount of time
allotted by the Council in the form of a resolution. Any time prior to the time
set for completion, any property owner may appear before the Council and file
written or oral objections. If the property owner fails to make connection with
the main before the time fixed for completion, or within such as granted by the
Council, but not to exceed 20 days, the Council shall order the connection made
and the cost thereof shall be assessed against property and the amount
certified to the County Treasurer in the manner provided by law, and such
assessment shall be collected with and in the same manner as general property
tax. New construction may use up to one-inch copper pipe. Existing properties
replacing connection pipes may use three-quarter-inch copper pipe.
90.21   NON-LIABILITY OF CITY.
The City does not guarantee a constant supply of water to any consumer and
shall not be liable for any damages for failure to supply water or maintain
pressure. No claim shall be made against the City by reason of the breaking of
a water main or leakage from any main, line, or meter. The City shall not be
responsible in furnishing or restoring water service by reasons of damages
resulting from open or defective connections or fixtures, or damages occasioned
by any other cause.
90.22   BACKFLOW PREVENTION PROGRAM.
The City adopts the backflow prevention program as contained in the Uniform
Plumbing Code (2018 Edition).
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                           91.07 Meter Repairs
91.02 Water Use Metered                 91.08 Right of Entry
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception 91.09 Meter Installation Fee
91.04 Location of Meters                91.10 Meters and Meter Accuracy
91.05 Meter Setting                     91.11 Irrigation Meters
91.06 Meter Costs                       91.12 Water Bypass Valves
 
91.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02   WATER USE METERED.
All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished by the
City and installed by the City or a licensed plumber.
91.03   FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Superintendent. No other
open, unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there shall
be no valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which
must be sealed open. If for residential sprinkler use, these homes shall not
tap into the line for domestic use.
91.04   LOCATION OF METERS.
All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter readers
and repairmen and protected from freezing.
91.05   METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside
the building near the entrance of the water service pipe into the building.
Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent and shall be of
a design and construction approved by the Superintendent. In case of meters one
inch or larger, the standard bypass shall be installed by the customer to meet
A.W.W.A. specifications and approval by the Superintendent.
91.06   METER COSTS.
The full cost of any meter larger than that required for a residential dwelling
shall be paid to the City by the property owner or customer prior to the
installation of any such meter by the City.
91.07   METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Superintendent shall have it repaired. If it is found that damage to the meter
has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property
owner, then the property owner shall be liable for the cost of repairs.
91.08   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent shall be permitted to enter the premises of any customer at
any reasonable time to read, remove, or change a meter.
91.09   METER INSTALLATION FEE.
There shall be a fee charged to the property owner for each new installation of
a water meter in excess of a three-quarter inch meter in accordance with the
schedule of such fees approved by resolution of the Council.
91.10   METERS AND METER ACCURACY.
All water shall be supplied through radio read water meters that accurately
measure the gallons of water supplied to a building. These meters shall be read
monthly. The quantity of water recorded by the water meter located inside any
premises shall be conclusive and binding upon both the customer and the City.
When the interior water meter is found to be registering inaccurately or has
ceased to register the quantity of water utilized, the quantity of water
utilized during that period of time shall be determined by using the average
consumption of the six months prior. If the interior water meter is found to be
registering inaccurately or has ceased to register the quantity of water
utilized, it will be promptly replaced or repaired.
(Ord. 2022-02 - Jul. 22 Supp.)
91.11   IRRIGATION METERS.
The Council determines that it is in the best interest of customer fairness and
public policy to establish an irrigation meter policy.
1.   All new construction shall require the installation of two water meters on
the premises. The irrigation meter shall be for the purpose of metering water
usage that does not enter the City sanitary sewer system. The irrigation meter
shall be installed and is subject to all costs, conditions, and inspections as
required by this Code of Ordinances. New construction shall be charged for two
meters on the building permit.
3.   Owners of existing structures may purchase a permanent irrigation meter
from the City to be installed by a State-licensed plumber according to
specifications provided by the Superintendent. Installation of the irrigation
meter must be inspected by the City Public Works Department. City staff has the
authority to inspect the meter periodically to ensure that it is operating
properly and legally.
4.   Permanent irrigation meters are required in all new residential
construction. Permanent irrigation meters can be purchased from the City for
existing home installation. Permanent irrigation meters are read monthly and
customers are charged only for the outside water usage.
5.   Underground irrigation systems require approved backflow prevention
devices and annual testing.
(Section 91.11 - Ord. 2022-02 - Jul. 22 Supp.)
91.12   WATER BYPASS VALVES.
A locking system is required to be installed for all new commercial and
industrial meters.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges           92.06 Lien Exemption
92.02 Rates For Service         92.07 Lien Notice
92.03 Billing for Water Service 92.08 Customer Deposits
92.04 Service Discontinued      92.09 Snowbird Policy
92.05 Lien for Nonpayment
 
92.01   SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters provided for in
Chapter 91. Each location, building, premises, or connection shall be
considered a separate and distinct customer whether owned or controlled by the
same person or not.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02   RATES FOR SERVICE.
Water service shall be furnished at the following monthly rates within the City
effective July 1, 2021:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84) † 6
 
                 Effective Date and Rate
Gallons Used Per
Month Household  7/1/2021 7/1/2022 7/1/2023 7/1/2024 7/1/2025 7/1/2026 7/1/2027
or Business
0 to 1,000
Minimum Bill,    $19.30   $19.68   $20.08   $20.48   $20.89   $21.31   $21.73
plus tax
All over 1,000   $0.00330 $0.00337 $0.00344 $0.00351 $0.00358 $0.00365 $0.00372
per gallon
 
Annually, beginning July 1, 2021, the base rate and usage shall increase by two
percent per year.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Code of Iowa 384.84(1) rates must be established by ordinance of
6 the Council or by resolution of the trustees, published in the same manner as an
  ordinance.
92.03   BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Bills Issued. The Clerk shall prepare and issue bills for combined service
accounts on or before the first day of each month.
2.   Bills Payable. Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable at City Hall by the twentieth day of the each month. When the twentieth
falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday, payment shall be accepted on the next
business day without penalty.
3.   Late Payment Penalty. Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent. A one-time late payment penalty of $5.00 shall be added to each
delinquent bill.
4.   Returned Check Charge. The City shall charge a service charge of $25.00 to
the account holder of any check provided as payment for utility service bills
that is returned to the City due to non-sufficient funds. Such service charge
shall be added to the amount due on the utility service bill and collected with
the bill. The City shall consider customers who fail to pay such service charge
delinquent and subject to Section
92.04 below.
92.04   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued or disconnected in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Notice. The City shall notify each delinquent customer that service will
be discontinued or disconnected if payment of the combined service account,
including late payment charges, is not received by the date specified in the
notice of delinquency. Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the
customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred and shall inform
the customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the
opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance.
2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
3.   Hearing. If a hearing is requested, the Clerk shall conduct an informal
hearing within two days following the request. The customer shall have the
right to present evidence or propose a payment plan. The decision of the Clerk
is final.
4.   Disconnect Notice. A disconnect notice shall be posted 24 hours before the
day of the shut-off date, at the property, and a fee of $25.00 shall be added
to the delinquent bill at this time. The account holder will have until noon
the following business day to pay the fees to avoid disconnection of service.
The Public Works Department shall disconnect any service after noon if the
delinquent bills and fees remain unpaid. Any service without a working curb
stop shall be treated the same as a disconnected service, with fees assessed.
Property owners shall be notified to fix curb stops.
5.   Fees. In addition to the rates or charges then due before such service is
restored, if service is discontinued for nonpayment of fees and charges, non-
compliance with payment arrangement, or for the violation of any City
ordinance, a fee of $50.00 shall be paid to the City by 3:00 p.m. of the shut-
off date, or a fee of $100.00 shall be paid to the City if after 3:00 p.m. of
shut-off date.
92.05   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.06   LIEN EXEMPTION.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply to
the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, stormwater drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for nonpayment
of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section shall not
be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or manufactured
home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is owned by a
tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home community and
the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or manager is the
account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the tenant is
responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed to the
account holder.
92.07   LIEN NOTICE.
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.08   CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
All rental for residential, commercial, and industrial areas requesting water
service shall, at the time of application, pay to the City a deposit of $200.00
to be retained as bond for any delinquent water charges incurred by the tenant.
Upon termination of the use of the water service by that customer for that
building, the Clerk shall secure a final reading of the meter from the Public
Works department. Within 30 days, a final bill will be prepared, deducting any
amounts owed to the City by the tenant from the deposit. Any balance due will
be billed to the customer, and any credit will be issued as a check. A customer
is eligible for a refund of such deposit, without interest, prior to the
termination of the use of water service if the customer has been billed for a
period of 12 consecutive months from the time water service commenced and the
customer’s account has not been delinquent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09   SNOWBIRD POLICY.
Residents who will be vacationing from their homes for 60 consecutive days, and
who do not request their services be shut off at the curb by the City, shall be
charged a minimum water bill per month. No minimum sewer bill shall be charged.
Any usage will be due with the monthly bill upon return of the homeowner. If a
resident requests the shut-off at the curb, no minimum bill shall be due.
CHAPTER 93
WATER CONSERVATION
 
93.01 Water Shortages 93.03 Violation
93.02 Conditions
 
93.01   WATER SHORTAGE.
From time to time during and following drought conditions, or due to equipment
failure, the City’s water supply may become significantly and seriously
depleted so that there will not be a sufficient supply of water to meet all
customary and unusual demands. Under these conditions, the Council may find and
declare by resolution a public water alert or water emergency, during which
time the following measures and provisions shall be in effect to produce an
orderly and equitable reduction of water consumption, until, by resolution, the
Council finds and declares the water shortage condition to be ended.
93.02   CONDITIONS.
1.   Water Alert. When moderate but limited supplies of water are available,
the Council through appropriate and reasonable means shall ask the general
population to use practical restraint in water usage and to conserve water
voluntarily by methods available.
2.   Water Emergency. When very limited supplies of water are available, the
Council shall order reduction of less essential or non-essential uses of water,
including, but not limited to, one or more of the following:
   A.   The watering of shrubbery, trees, lawns, grass, plants, or any
vegetation, except indoor planting, greenhouse, or nursery stocks.
   B.   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, airplanes, or any other
type of mobile equipment.
   C.   The washing of streets, driveways, parking lots, service station
aprons, office buildings, exterior of homes or apartments, or other outdoor
services.
   D.   The operation of any ornamental fountain or other structure making a
similar use of water.
   E.   The filling of swimming or wading pools, or the refilling of swimming
or wading pools which were drained after the effective date of the order.
   F.   The use of water from fire hydrants for any purpose other than fire
suppression or other public emergency.
   G.   The serving of drinking water in restaurants, cafeterias, or other food
establishment unless requested by the individual.
93.03   VIOLATION.
The following penalties shall apply for violation of the water alert or water
emergency restrictions imposed in this chapter:
1.   First Violation. For a first violation, the utility shall issue a written
notice of violation to the water user.
2.   Second Violation. For a second violation within a 12-month period, a
surcharge shall be imposed in an amount equal to 25 percent of the previous
water bill.
3.   Subsequent Violations. For any subsequent violation within a 12-month
period, a surcharge shall be imposed in an amount equal to 25 percent of the
previous water bill and the water service will be shut off to the residence
where the violation occurred. Service will not be restored until the customer
pays the reconnection fee of $50.00.
Any customer charged with a violation of the water alert or water emergency
restrictions may request a hearing before the Council. The Council may conclude
that a violation did not occur or that the circumstances under which the
violation occurred warrant a complete or partial mitigation of the penalty.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.07 Right of Entry
95.02 Definitions               95.08 Use of Easements
95.03 Superintendent            95.09 Special Penalties
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.10 Deviations
95.05 Sewer Connection Required 95.11 Disclaimer
95.06 Service Outside the City
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20?, expressed in milligrams per liter or
parts per million.
2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the public
sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
or other body of surface or groundwater.
10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
12.   “Properly shredded garbage” means the waste from the preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any
dimension.
13.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
14.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary conveniences
of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings,
factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and industrial
waste.
15.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
16.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
17.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
18.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
19.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
20.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees levied
against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of said
customers by said sewer system.
21.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
22.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
23.   “Superintendent” means the Public Works Director of the City or any
authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
24.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable by
laboratory filtering.
25.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   SUPERINTENDENT.
The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections, and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on public
or private property within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage except
as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City, or
in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
7.   Connect any pen, gutter, cesspool, privy vault, or cistern with any public
sewer or with any private sewer connecting with any public sewer.
95.05   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 60 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 150 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
95.06   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council. The Council may rely upon the City
Engineer to make a recommendation regarding a request to connect to City sewer
service.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
95.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.08   USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation of
this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
95.10   DEVIATIONS.
Any deviation from prescribed procedures and materials set out in the Sanitary
Sewer chapters must be approved by the Superintendent or Council before being
implemented.
95.11   DISCLAIMER.
The City shall not be liable for any claim or damage on account of the
breaking, malfunction, or injury to any equipment used in the delivery of sewer
service to persons connected with the sewer system.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                           96.06 Interceptors Required
96.02 Permit Fee and Connection Charge 96.07 Sewer Tap
96.03 Plumber Required                 96.08 Inspection Required
96.04 Excavations                      96.09 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.05 Connection Requirements          96.10 Abatement of Violations
 
96.01   PERMIT.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the City. There shall be three classes of
building sewer permits: (i) residential service, (ii) commercial service, and
(iii) industrial service. In either case, the owner or the owner’s agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the City. The application for
the permit shall set forth the location and description of the property to be
connected with the sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be
used, and shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent. The permit shall require the owner to
complete construction and connection of the building sewer to the public sewer
within six months after the issuance of the permit, except that when a property
owner make sufficient showing that due to conditions beyond the owner’s control
or peculiar hardship, such time period is inequitable or unfair, an extension
of time within which to comply with the provisions herein may be granted. Any
sewer connection permit may be revoked at any time for a violation of these
chapters.
96.02   PERMIT FEE AND CONNECTION CHARGE.
The person who makes the application for a permit application shall pay all the
required permit fees, including the connection fees, as follows:
1.   10 cents per square foot for residential development
2.   One and one-half cents per square foot for commercial development
3.   Two cents per square foot for industrial development
96.03   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer shall
be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
Uniform Plumbing Code and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
96.05   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
The installation of the building sewer and its connections to the public sewer
shall conform to the requirements of the Uniform Plumbing Code, the laws of the
State, and other applicable rules and regulations of the City.
96.06   INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, sludge, and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and service
stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities when,
in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand, or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required,
such interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
1.   Design and Location. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity as
specified in the International Plumbing Code, to be approved by the
Superintendent, and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection.
2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight.
3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at the
owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at all
times.
4.   Other. All such interceptors, and the installation and maintenance
thereof, shall follow the Uniform Plumbing Code, the laws of the State, and
other applicable rules and regulations of the City.
96.07   SEWER TAP.
Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the “Y”
branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent. The public sewer shall be tapped with
a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer shall be
glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the sewer. At no
time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a manhole unless
special written permission is received from the Superintendent and in
accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is approved.
96.08   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Superintendent. As soon as all pipe
work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and
before any backfilling is done, the Superintendent shall be notified and the
Superintendent shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material;
no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or trenches filled until after
the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Superintendent refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the
work.
96.09   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
The owner of the property served by a building sewer shall be responsible for
the operation, maintenance, repair, blockage, surface replacement, and any
damage resulting from operation, maintenance, repair, and blockage of said
building sewer, from the point of connection with the building drain to the
public sewer. The City shall, in no event, be held responsible for claims made
against it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by
reason of any other interruption of the service caused by the breaking of
machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs; and no person shall be entitled to
damages nor have any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption.
96.10   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date of
official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Stormwater               97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                               Superintendent
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01   STORMWATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
that are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02   SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where such
discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but any
permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to be
in the best interests of the sewer system.
97.03   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil,
or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides (CN) in excess of two milligrams per
liter as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities or
of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
   A.   Any waters or wastes: (i) having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand
greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or (ii) containing more than 350
parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or (iii) having an average
daily flow greater than two percent of the average sewage flow of the City,
shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent.
   B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to: (i) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight; or (ii) reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
or (iii) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150°F (65°C).
2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C to
65°C), to such degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot meet the
requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the
receiving waters.
4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to such
a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
inch in any dimension.
5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or
odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life
or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
   A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
   B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
   C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
   D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting “slugs”
as defined herein.
11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration, or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are not
amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed,
or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the
provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06   SPECIAL FACILITIES.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary treatment or
flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner’s expense.
97.07   CONTROL MANHOLES.
When required by the , the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together
with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at the owner’s expense, and shall be maintained by the
owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
97.08   TESTING OF WASTES.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.05 Discharge Restrictions
98.02 When Required               98.06 Maintenance of System
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.04 Permit Required             98.08 Disposal of Septage
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(567 IAC 69.1[3 and 4])
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch, stream, pond,
lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the surface of the
ground.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall operate
and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to
the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an on-
site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
1.   Exceptions. Single-family dwellings and buildings or structures accessory
thereto, existing and connected to an approved private sewage disposal system
prior to the time of connection of the premises to the public sewer, shall be
permitted, when no hazard, nuisance, or unsanitary condition is evidenced and
written permission has been obtained from the authority having jurisdiction, to
remain connected to such properly maintained private sewage disposal system
when there is insufficient grade or fail to permit drainage to the sewer by
gravity.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01 Sewer Service Charges Required 99.04 Payment of Bills
99.02 Special Rates                  99.05 Lien for Nonpayment
99.03 Private Water Systems          99.06 Special Agreements Permitted
 
99.01   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.
Each customer shall pay sewer service charges for the use of and for the
service supplied by the municipal sanitary sewer system based upon the amount
of water consumed as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84) † 7
 
          Effective Date and Rate
Gallons
Used Per
Month     7/1/2021  7/1/2022  7/1/2023  7/1/2024  7/1/2025  7/1/2026  7/1/2027
Household
or
Business
0 to
1,000
Minimum   $46.92    $47.86    $48.82    $49.79    $50.79    $51.80    $52.84
Bill,
plus tax
All over
1,000 per $0.008619 $0.008791 $0.008967 $0.009147 $0.009329 $0.009516 $0.009706
gallon
 
In the event that more than one sewer meter serves a specific property, the
total sewer usage of all meters shall be used for computing sewer rates. 
Annually, beginning July 1, 2021, the base rate and usage shall increase by two
percent per year.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Code of Iowa 384.84(1) rates must be established by ordinance of
7 the Council or by resolution of the trustees, published in the same manner as an
  ordinance.
99.02   SPECIAL RATES.
Where, in the judgment of the Superintendent and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer charges
provided in Section
99.01 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the customer, a
special rate shall be proposed by the Superintendent and submitted to the
Council for approval by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.03   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
Customers whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay sewer
charges based upon the water used as determined by the City either by an
estimate agreed to by the customer or by metering the water system at the
customer’s expense. Any negotiated or agreed-upon sales or charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.04   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.03 of this Code of Ordinances. Sewer service may be discontinued or
disconnected in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.04 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.07 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
99.05   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.06 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for sewer
service charges to the premises. Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and
delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and
shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the
same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.06   SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Purpose                           105.07 Littering Prohibited
105.02 Definitions                       105.08 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required        105.09 Waste Storage Containers
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard            105.10 Prohibited Practices
105.05 Open Burning Restricted           105.11 Sanitary Disposal Project
                                         Designated
105.06 Separation of Yard Waste Required 105.12 City Yard Waste Site
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety, and welfare as may
result from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from public
and private places.
2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and vegetable
waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving, and
consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all offal,
excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such substances from
all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(567 IAC 100.2)
5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage. The
term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves,
grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(567 IAC 20.2)
6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person residing
in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating, or transacting business in any
premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste, and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(567 IAC 100.2)
9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple-
family dwelling.
10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes, and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(567 IAC 20.2)
11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and
non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(567 IAC 100.2)
12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(567 IAC 100.2)
13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar discarded
solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such materials
resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic activities.
Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of the Code of
Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
   B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
   C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
   D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
   E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
   F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A of
the Code of Iowa.
   G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
      (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
      (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing to
ensure production is not interrupted.
15.   “Toxic and hazardous waste” means waste materials, including (but not
limited to) poisons, pesticides, herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological
waste, flammable or explosive materials, and similar harmful waste that
requires special handling and that must be disposed of in such a manner as to
conserve the environment and protect the public health and safety.
(567 IAC 100.2)
16.   “Yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden
waste, brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all refuse
accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any such
accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days shall
be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04   HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation or fire hazard.
105.05   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
No person shall allow, cause, or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(567 IAC 23.2 and 100.2)
1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape waste,
for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an officially
declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of any
structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]”a”)
2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings at
a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in compliance
with the rules established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]”b”)
3.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]”c”)
4.   Landscape Waste. The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises. However, the burning of landscape waste produced
in clearing, grubbing, and construction operations shall be limited to areas
located at least one-fourth mile from any building inhabited by other than the
landowner or tenant conducting the open burning. Rubber tires shall not be used
to ignite landscape waste. It shall be unlawful in the City to burn any leaves,
twigs, branches, or any other vegetation or organic refuse, outside of any
building or enclosed incinerator at any time except between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. from March 1 to May 31 of each calendar year, and September
1 to December 1 of each calendar year. In addition, it shall be unlawful at all
times to burn said material or other material of any nature on any City
streets, curbs and gutters, boulevard, rights-of-way, sidewalks, or any other
City property or rights-of-way. Burning garbage is prohibited.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]”d”)
5.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources. Rubber
tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]”e”)
   A.   The use of fire rings and self-contained outdoor fireplaces for
recreational uses shall not be governed by this chapter.
   B.   The burning of common cooking fuel as natural gas, charcoal, or wood
being used for cooking of foods for human consumption shall be permitted.
   C.   The use of barbecue grills, smokers, or outdoor fryers used solely for
preparation of food for human consumption shall be permitted.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to deposit or leave any refuse or material such as
ashes in such a place or condition that it can be blown by the wind so as to be
scattered or cause clouds of dust or particles; and it shall be unlawful to
permit the escape of such material so as to be wind-blown or scattered. This
shall include outdoor fire ring refuse and outdoor fire place refuse.
6.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide training
of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided that the
training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by the State
Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]”g”)
7.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of a
demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]”j”)
8.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[2])
105.06   SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other solid
waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted or burned on the
premises or placed in acceptable containers and set out for collection.
105.07   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.08   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 100.2)
(567 IAC 102.13[2] and 400 IAC 27.14[2])
105.09   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
1.   Container Specifications. Waste storage containers shall comply with the
following specifications:
   A.   Residential. Residential waste and recyclable items shall be disposed
of in the 65-gallon or 95-gallon containers provided by the City’s solid waste
contractor.
   B.   Commercial. Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or
renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse accumulates
and where its storage in the 65-gallon or 95-gallon containers provided by the
City’s solid waste contractor (as required above) is impractical, shall
maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the City.
2.   Storage of Containers. Residential solid waste containers shall be stored
upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers shall be
stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel. All owners of residential and
commercial premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and
yard waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around
neighboring yards and streets.
3.   Location of Containers for Collection. Containers for the storage of solid
waste awaiting collection shall be placed outdoors at some easily accessible
place, by 6:00 a.m., by the owner or occupant of the premises served.
4.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers that are not in
compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
105.10   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste containers
not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of such
containers.
2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
3.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed for
high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
4.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out for
collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
105.11   SANITARY DISPOSAL PROJECT DESIGNATED.
The sanitary landfill facilities operated by the County are hereby designated
as the official “Public Sanitary Disposal Project” for the disposal of solid
waste produced or originating within the City.
105.12   CITY YARD WASTE SITE.
The designated City compost site will be governed by all signage at said
facility as well as the following restrictions:
1.   City compost site is for City residents only. No commercial waste.
2.   Disposal of leaves, yard brush, and grass clippings are the only allowed
materials. Tree branches must be smaller than eight (8) inches in diameter.
3.   Disposal of items other than grass clippings, yard brush, or leaves at the
City compost site may be cited for littering under this chapter or any other
applicable City ordinance.
4.   Any non-resident of the City depositing any materials at the City compost
site may also be subject to citation for littering under this chapter or any
other applicable City ordinance. This includes any commercial company with tree
debris.
5.   A minimum fine of $150.00 for disposal of items that are not yard waste is
posted at the site.
(Section 105.12 – Ord. 2022-05 – May 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.06 Right of Entry
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.07 Contract Requirements
106.03 Loading                 106.08 Collection Fees
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.09 Lien for Nonpayment
106.05 Bulky Rubbish
 
106.01   COLLECTION SERVICE.
The City shall provide by contract for the collection of all solid waste except
bulky rubbish as provided in Section
106.05 within the City.
106.02   COLLECTION VEHICLES.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be cleaned
to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be maintained in
good repair.
(567 IAC 104.9)
106.03   LOADING.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any solid
waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will not
fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or loss
of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04   FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once each
week and from commercial, industrial, and institutional premises as frequently
as may be necessary, but not less than once each week.
106.05   BULKY RUBBISH.
Bulky rubbish that is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal manner
of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request in
accordance with procedures established by the Council.
106.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter; however,
solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other residential
buildings.
106.07   CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing,
or disposing of solid waste for the City without first entering into a contract
with the City. This section does not prohibit an owner from transporting solid
waste accumulating upon premises owned, occupied, or used by such owner,
provided such refuse is disposed of properly in an approved sanitary disposal
project. Furthermore, a contract is not required for the removal, hauling, or
disposal of earth and rock material from grading or excavation activities,
provided that all such materials are conveyed in tight vehicles, trucks, or
receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the material being
transported is spilled upon any public right-of-way.
106.08   COLLECTION FEES.
The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449 [Iowa 1970])
1.   Each dwelling unit in the City shall be responsible to pay refuse
collection fees to the City as provided in this section. “Dwelling unit” shall
include but not be limited to owner occupied residences, apartments, or any
dwelling unit of any kind as defined in Section 562A.6 (3) of the Code of Iowa.
2.   The refuse rate shall be collected by the City for its services collecting
garbage and rubbish, and the following mandatory fees are hereby established:
   A.   Residence and Commercial Rate. For each resident with pickup, $19.00
per month for one weekly garbage collection of a 65-gallon refuse cart, or
$20.50 per month for one weekly garbage collection of a 95-gallon refuse cart
each week.
   B.   Customers may request an additional 65-gallon refuse cart. An
additional $3.00 per month shall be collected for such additional refuse cart.
3.   Each landlord shall require each residential tenant to obtain and utilize
a refuse cart of appropriate size for each dwelling unit.
4.   The City shall collect the refuse collection rate provided for in this
section for each dwelling unit which is being provided any water or sewer
service by the City.
   A.   It shall not be a defense to being billed for refuse to maintain a
dwelling unit is unoccupied.
   B.   However, in their sole and absolute discretion, the City Clerk may
accept an application by a landlord which clearly establishes that a certain
dwelling unit is not occupied, and may forgive the refuse collection charge
provided in this section for such period of time that the dwelling unit is not
occupied.
   C.   For any portion of any month where such dwelling unit is occupied , the
entire appropriate refuse collection fee for the month shall be collected for
such dwelling unit.
106.09   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.06 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for solid
waste collection and disposal. Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and shall be certified
by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
110.01 Franchise Granted             110.15 Franchise Implementation
110.02 Non-Exclusive Franchise       110.16 Collection of Franchise Fees
110.03 Street Excavation             110.17 Annexation
110.04 Tariff                        110.18 Customer Identification
110.05 Responsibility For Excavation 110.19 Remittance of Franchise Fees
110.06 Vacating of Property          110.20 Franchise Fee Administration
110.07 Relocation of Existing        110.21 Expenses Incurred by Company
Facilities
110.08 Relocation For Development    110.22 Ordinance Modification or Repeal
110.09 City Held Harmless            110.23 Right-Of-Way
110.10 Confidentiality               110.24 Termination of Franchise
110.11 Applicable Regulations        110.25 Adjudication of Ordinance
110.12 Supply of Gas                 110.26 Procedures of Ordinance
110.13 Franchise Agreement           110.27 Effective Date
110.14 Franchise Fee Exemptions
 
110.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa Corporation,
hereinafter called “Company,” and to its successors and assigns, the non-
exclusive right and franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain, and
operate in the City of Durant, Iowa, hereinafter called the “City,” a gas
distribution system to furnish natural gas along, under, and upon the streets,
avenues, alleys, and public places to serve customers within and without the
City and to furnish and sell natural gas to the City and its inhabitants. For
the term of this franchise, the Company is granted the right of eminent domain,
the exercise of which is subject to City Council approval upon application of
the Company. The term of this franchise shall be 25 years beginning from and
after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.† 8  Either
the Company or the City may, not less than 90 nor more than 180 days prior to
the tenth and fifteenth anniversary of the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter, provide written notice to the other party of its
desire to amend the franchise. The parties shall negotiate these amendments in
good faith for a period of up to 90 days following receipt of notice. Failure
to amend the franchise at the first option does not render invalid the City’s
second option to amend the franchise.
 
Notes
8 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. SO 2011-2, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on May 23, 2011.
110.02   NON-EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE.
The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa 2009 or as subsequently amended
or changed.
110.03   STREET EXCAVATION.
Company shall have the right to excavate in any public street for the purpose
of laying, relaying, repairing, or extending gas pipes, mains, conduits, and
other facilities, provided that the same shall be so placed as to not
unreasonably interfere with the construction of any water pipes, drain, or
sewer, or the flow of water therefrom, which have been or may hereafter be
located by authority of the City.
110.04   TARIFF.
The Company shall, excluding facilities located in private easements (whether
titled in Company exclusively or in Company and other entities), in accordance
with Iowa Law including Company’s tariff on file with and made effective by the
Iowa Utilities Board as may subsequently be amended (“Tariff”), at its cost and
expense, locate and relocate its existing facilities or equipment in, on, over,
or under any public street or alley in the City in such a manner as the City
may reasonably require for the purposes of facilitating the construction,
reconstruction, maintenance, or repair of the street or alley. The City and the
Company shall work together to develop a suitable alternative route or
construction method so as to eliminate or minimize the cost and expense to the
Company of relocation of Company installations. If the City has a reasonable
alternative route for the street, alley, or public improvements or an
alternative construction method which would not cause the relocation of the
Company installations, the City shall select said alternative route or
construction method. The City shall be responsible for surveying and staking
the right-of-way for City projects that require the Company to relocate Company
facilities. If requested, the City shall provide, at no cost to the Company,
copies of its relocation plan and profile and cross section drawings. If tree
removals must be completed by the City as part of the City’s project and are
necessary whether or not utility facilities must be relocated, the City, at its
own cost, shall be responsible for said removals. If the timing of the tree
removals does not coincide with the Company facilities relocation schedule and
Company must remove trees that are included in the City’s portion of the
project, the City shall either remove the trees at its cost or reimburse the
Company for the expenses incurred to remove said trees. If project funds from a
source other than the City are available to pay for the relocation of utility
facilities, the City shall attempt to secure said funds and provide them to the
Company to compensate the Company for the costs of relocation.
110.05   RESPONSIBILITY FOR EXCAVATION.
In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys, and public places for
the installation of gas pipes, conduits, or apparatus, Company shall not
unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets and shall replace the surface,
restoring it to the condition as existed prior to excavation. The Company shall
not be required to restore or modify public right-of-way, sidewalks, or other
areas in or adjacent to the Company project to a condition superior to its
immediately previous existing condition or to a condition required for the City
to comply with City, State, and federal rules, regulations, or law. Company
agrees any replacement of road surface shall conform to current City code
regarding its depth and composition.
110.06   VACATING OF PROPERTY.
Vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground, or public right-of-way shall
not deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain existing
facilities on, below, above, or beneath the vacated property. Prior to
abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley, or public ground where the
Company has natural gas facilities in the vicinity, the City shall provide
Company with not less than 60-days advance notice of the City’s proposed action
and, upon request, grant the Company a utility easement covering existing and
future facilities and activities. The City shall grant the Company a utility
easement for said facilities. If the City fails to grant the Company a utility
easement for said facilities prior to abandoning or vacating a street, avenue,
alley, or public ground, the City shall, at its cost and expense, obtain
easements for existing Company facilities.
110.07   RELOCATION OF EXISTING FACILITIES.
The Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense, Company
facilities in the public right-of-way that have been relocated at Company
expense at the direction of the City in the previous 10 years.
110.08   RELOCATION FOR DEVELOPMENT.
Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities as may be required by this
chapter, if the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its existing
facilities or equipment in order to facilitate the project of a commercial or
private developer or non-public entity, the City shall reimburse, or the City
shall require the developer or non-public entity to reimburse, the Company for
the cost of such relocation as a precondition to relocation of its existing
facilities or equipment. The Company shall not be required to relocate in order
to facilitate such private project at its expense.
110.09   CITY HELD HARMLESS.
The Company shall indemnify and save harmless the City from any and all claims,
suits, losses, damages, cost, or expenses, on account of injury or damage to
any person or property, to the extent cause or occasioned by the Company’s
negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation, or
maintenance of the natural gas facilities authorized by this franchise;
provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend,
indemnify, and save harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent
arising from the negligence of the City, its officers, employees, or agents.
110.10   CONFIDENTIALITY.
Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project-
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in the City right-of-way (“information”). The
Company and City recognize the information provided may, under current Iowa
Law, constitute public records, but that, nonetheless, some of the information
provided will be confidential under State or federal law or both. Therefore,
the City shall give notice to Company at least 15 days in advance of any
proposed release of information in order for the Company to seek an injunction
or other appropriate action to protect the confidentiality of the information.
The Company shall cooperate with all requests of City to identify that portion
of the information that is not to be disclosed. The City shall not be liable
for the disclosure of any information which the Company did not indicate to be
confidential.
110.11   APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
The Company shall construct, operate, and maintain its facilities in accordance
with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board or its successors.
110.12   SUPPLY OF GAS.
During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish natural gas in the
quantity and quality consistent, and in accordance, with the applicable
regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board or its successors and Iowa Law.
110.13   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
A franchise fee is imposed upon, and shall be collected from, the natural gas
customers of MidAmerican Energy Company receiving service pursuant to the
tariff and located within the corporate limits of the City. The franchise fee
shall be imposed upon the gross receipts, minus uncollectible accounts, derived
from the sale of natural gas and distribution service pursuant to the tariff.
City imposes the franchise fee upon the following revenue classes:
 
REVENUE CLASS                           FRANCHISE FEE
Residential Customers                   Five Percent
Commercial Customers                    Five Percent
Industrial Customers                    Five Percent
Public Authority Customers              Five Percent
Distribution (Transportation) Customers Five Percent
 
110.14   FRANCHISE FEE EXEMPTIONS.
The City may, as allowed by Iowa law, exempt certain types or classes of sales
from imposition of the franchise fee, or modify, decrease, or eliminate the
franchise fee. The City does therefore exempt the following customer classes or
customer groups franchise fees:
Customer Classes Initially Exempted By the City
The City reserves the right to cancel any or all the franchise fee exemptions
and also reserves the right to grant exemptions to additional customers or
customer classes in compliance with Iowa law and this chapter.
110.15   FRANCHISE IMPLEMENTATION.
The City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed only once in any
24-month period. Any such ordinance exempting certain types or classes of
customers, increasing, decreasing, modifying, or eliminating the franchise fee
shall become effective, and billing reflecting the change shall commence, on an
agreed upon date which is not less than 60 days following written notice to the
Company by certified mail. The Company shall not be required to implement such
new ordinance unless and until it determines that is has received appropriate
official documentation of final action by the City Council.
110.16   COLLECTION OF FRANCHISE FEES.
The City recognizes the administrative burden collecting franchise fees imposes
upon the Company and the Company requires lead time to commence collecting said
franchise fees. The Company will commence collecting franchise fees on or
before the first Company billing cycle of the first calendar month following 90
days of receipt of information required of the City to implement the franchise
fee, including the City’s documentation of consumers subject to or exempted
from City-imposed franchise fee. The City shall provide the information and
data required in a form and format acceptable to the Company. The Company will,
if requested by the City, provide the City with a list of premises considered
by the Company to be within the corporate limits of the City.
110.17   ANNEXATIONS.
The City shall be solely responsible for identifying customers subject to or
exempt from paying the City-imposed franchise fee. The City shall be solely
responsible for notifying Company of its corporate limits, including, over
time, annexations or other alterations thereto, and customers that it wishes to
subject to, or to the extent permitted by law exempt from, paying the franchise
fee. The City shall provide to the Company, by certified mail, copies of
annexation ordinances in a timely manner to ensure appropriate franchise fee
collection from customers within the corporate limits of the City. The Company
shall have no obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in annexed
areas until and unless such ordinances have been provided to the Company by
certified mail. The Company shall commence collecting franchise fees in the
annexed areas no sooner than 60 days after receiving annexation ordinances from
the City.
110.18   CUSTOMER IDENTIFICATION.
The City shall indemnify the Company from claims of any nature arising out of,
or related to, the imposition and collection of the franchise fee. In addition,
the Company shall not be liable for collecting franchise fees from any customer
originally or subsequently identified, or incorrectly identified, by the City
as being subject to the franchise fee or being subject to a different level of
franchise fees, or being exempt from the imposition of franchise fees.
110.19   REMITTANCE OF FRANCHISE FEES.
The Company shall remit franchise fee revenues to the City no more frequently
than on or before the last business day of the month following each quarter as
follows:
1.   January, February, and March
2.   April, May, and June
3.   July, August, and September
4.   October, November, and December
MidAmerican shall provide City with notice at least 30 days in advance of any
changes made in this collection schedule, including any alteration in the
calendar quarters or any other changes in the remittance periods.
110.20   FRANCHISE FEE ADMINISTRATION.
The City recognizes that the costs of franchise fee administration are not
charged directly to the City and agree it shall, if required by the Company,
reimburse the Company for any initial or ongoing cost incurred by the Company
in collecting franchise fees that Company, in its sole opinion, deems to be in
excess of typical costs of franchise fee administration.
110.21   EXPENSES INCURRED BY COMPANY.
MidAmerican Energy Company shall not, under any circumstances, be required to
return or refund any franchise fees that have been collected from City
customers and remitted to the City. In the event the Company is required to
provide data or information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise
fees or the Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or
calculating any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers,
the City shall reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company
to provide such data or information.
110.22   ORDINANCE MODIFICATION OR REPEAL.
1.   The obligation to collect and remit the fee imposed by the ordinance
codified in this chapter is modified or repealed if:
   A.   Any other person is authorized to sell natural gas at retail to City
consumers and the City imposes a franchise fee or its lawful equivalent at zero
or a lesser rate than provided in this chapter, in which case the obligation of
Company to collect and remit franchise fee shall be modified to zero or the
lesser rate; or
   B.   The City adds additional territory by annexation or consolidation and
is unable or unwilling to impose the franchise fee upon all persons selling
natural gas at retail to consumers within the additional territory, in which
case the franchise fee imposed on the revenue from sales by Company in the
additional territory shall be zero or equal to that of the lowest fee being
paid by any other retail seller of natural gas within the City; or
   C.   Legislation is enacted by the Iowa General Assembly, or the Supreme
Court of Iowa issues a final ruling, regarding franchise fee or the Iowa
Utilities Board issues a final non-appealable order (collectively, “final
franchise fee action”) that modifies, but does not repeal, the ability of the
City to impose a franchise fee or the ability of Company to collect from City
customers and remit franchise fees to City. Within 60 days of final franchise
fee action, the City shall notify Company, and the parties shall meet to
determine whether this chapter can be revised, and, if so, how to revise the
franchise fee on a continuing basis to meet revised legal requirements. After
final franchise fee action and until passage by the City of revisions to the
franchise fee ordinance, Company may temporarily discontinue collection and
remittance of the franchise fee if, in its sole opinion, it believes it is
required to do so in order to comply with revised legal requirements.
2.   The other provisions of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, the
Company shall be completely relieved of its obligation to collect and remit to
the City the franchise fee, effective as the date specified below, with no
liability therefore under each of any of the following circumstances as
determined to exist in the sole discretion of Company:
   A.   Any of the imposition, collection, or remittance of a franchise fee is
ruled to be unlawful by the Supreme Court of Iowa, effective as of the date of
such ruling or as may be specified by that court.
   B.   The Iowa General Assembly enacts legislation making imposition,
collection, or remittance of a franchise fee unlawful, effective as of the date
lawfully specified by the General Assembly.
   C.   The Iowa Utilities Board, or its successor agency, denies the Company
the right to impose, collect, or remit a franchise fee, provided such denial is
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Iowa, effective as of the date of the final
agency order from which the appeal is taken.
110.23   RIGHT-OF-WAY.
The City shall not, pursuant to Chapter 480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose or
charge Company right-of-way management fees for permits for Company
construction, maintenance, repairs, excavation, pavement cutting, or
inspections of Company work sites and projects or related matters.
110.24   TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
Either City or Company (“party”) may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non-breaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have 60 days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the non-
breaching party, and the parties agree upon a shorter or longer period for
cure. If the breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching
party may terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in
breach of this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or federal
law. A party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the
alleged breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other
party.
110.25   ADJUDICATION OF ORDINANCE.
If any section, provision, or part of this chapter shall be adjudged to be
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of
the ordinance codified in this chapter as a whole or any section, provision, or
part thereof not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
110.26   PROCEDURES OF ORDINANCE.
The ordinance codified in this chapter and the rights and privileges herein
granted shall become affective and binding upon its approval and passage in
accordance with Iowa law and the written acceptance by the Company. The City
shall provide Company with an original signed and sealed copy of the ordinance
codified in this chapter within 10 days of its final passage. The Company
shall, within 30 days after the City Council approval of the ordinance codified
in this chapter, file in the office of the City Clerk, its acceptance in
writing of all the terms and provisions of this chapter. Following City Council
approval, the ordinance codified in this chapter shall be published in
accordance with the Code of Iowa. The effective date of the ordinance codified
in this chapter shall be the date of publication. In the event that MidAmerican
Energy Company does not file its written acceptance of the ordinance codified
in this chapter within 30 days after its approval by the City Council, the
ordinance codified in this chapter shall be void and of no effect.
110.27   EFFECTIVE DATE.
Upon the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, all prior
natural gas franchises granted to the Company to furnish natural gas to the
City and its inhabitants are hereby repealed and all other ordinances in
conflict herewith are also hereby repealed.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC UTILITY
111.01 General                        111.09 Meter Inspections and Tests
111.02 Electrical Installations       111.10 Access to Premises
111.03 Poles                          111.11 Requirements For Power Service
111.04 Damage                         111.12 Non-Liability
111.05 Fire and Emergencies           111.13 Rules, Regulations, and Rates
111.06 Permits and Inspections        111.14 Discontinuance of Service
111.07 Service Connections            111.15 Board of Trustees
111.08 Metering and Removal of Meters 111.16 Mandatory Reports to the City
                                      Council
 
111.01   GENERAL.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all electrical installations
connected to the electrical system operated by the Durant Municipal Electric
Plant, and to other electrical wires and poles now existing or to be
constructed within the corporate limits of the City. The Durant Municipal
Electric Board of Trustees shall be the governing body of equipment, poles, and
materials operated and owned by Durant Municipal Electric.
111.02   ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS.
All electrical installations, including either wiring or equipment, and the
construction of electric wires and poles, shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with and shall conform to the requirement of the edition of the
National Electric Code or any supplement thereto, currently recognized by the
State of Iowa, as issued by the National Board of Fire Underwriters, and to
such other State and municipal regulations as may be in force at the time such
installation is made, unless specifically designated otherwise by the
provisions of this chapter. All electrical installations shall conform to the
current National Electric Code and National Electric Safety Code.
111.03   POLES.
All poles shall be placed in City right-of-way.
111.04   DAMAGE.
Any damages to any pavement, sidewalk, water pipe, sewer, and other public or
private property resulting from or in the setting relocation or repair of
telephone or electric poles in any of the streets, alleys, highways, or other
places, shall be paid by any company so erecting, relocating, or repairing
them, and the City shall not be responsible for any damages resulting
therefrom.
111.05   FIRE AND EMERGENCIES.
In case of fire or other emergencies, the poles, wires, and street fixtures may
be cut off and removed, wires and street fixtures or the electrical current may
be cut off, by order of the Fire Chief, without any liability or expense on the
part of the municipality or such officer. Authorized personnel of the electric
utility providing power to property shall be previously notified of the
necessity to remove the poles, wires, or fixtures or to cut off electrical
current. At no time shall fire fighter personnel handle utility lines unless
under direct supervision of utility company personnel.
111.06   PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
Electrical permits are required and shall be paid for before the project is
started. Electrical inspections shall be performed by the City Electrical
Inspector who shall be State certified.
111.07   SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
Connection from service outlets or underground services to service wires or
secondary wires shall be made only by electric utility personnel. It shall be
considered a violation of the provisions contained herein for any unauthorized
person to make such a connection, and persons may be fined by the electric
utility.
111.08   METERING AND REMOVAL OF METERS.
1.   All electrical current furnished to any consumer shall pass through a
suitable meter provided by the electric utility. It shall be considered a
violation of the provisions herein for any unauthorized persons to install or
remove, to repair or try to repair, or to tamper in any way with connection to
an electric meter.
2.   Service rules shall be used for Durant Municipal Electric metering
equipment.
111.09   METER INSPECTIONS AND TESTS.
Electric meters shall be inspected and/or tested whenever the electric utility
believes that any meter is not registering correctly.
111.10   ACCESS TO PREMISES.
Every consumer of electricity connected to the electric system shall permit
authorized personnel of the electric utility free access to any premises or
building to read meters, to examine the electrical installation, to determine
the manner in which the electrical current is to be used, or for the purpose of
cutting and trimming trees and shrubbery to the extent necessary to clear them
of the electrical lines, and to cut down from time to time all dead, weak,
leaning, or dangerous trees or branches that are tall enough to strike
electrical wires in the process of falling. Such access shall be granted at any
time between the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 11:59 p.m. asked of them relative to
meters, wiring, equipment, and the consumption of electrical current.
111.11   REQUIREMENTS FOR POWER SERVICE.
1.   For all new electrical installations serving motors or other power
equipment, the Superintendent of the Municipal Electric Plant shall be
consulted as to the requirements of the service and shall designate the voltage
to be utilized.
2.   Starting equipment for all motors shall comply with requirements of the
National Electric Code and shall be of the type approved by the electric
utility as having proper starting voltage characteristics and minimum
protective features to meet requirements herein. Approval of any starting
equipment by the electric utility shall not be considered a recommendation of
the protective features of the equipment, and no liability shall be attached
either to the electric utility or personnel in which case the equipment fails
to protect the motor from any damage due to cause of low voltage open phase,
phase reversal, etc.
111.12   NON-LIABILITY.
The electric utilities will not guarantee a constant supply of electric energy
to any consumer or consumers and shall not be liable for any claim of damages
arising out of failure to supply the same.
111.13   RULES, REGULATIONS, AND RATES.
The rules, regulations, and rates for electric current herein or hereafter
adopted shall be part of the contract with every person, firm, or corporation
supplied with electrical current by the electric utility and such person, firm,
or corporation, whether signing an application or contract or not, shall, by
taking or using electric current supplied by the electric utilities, express
their consent to and be bound thereby to the preceding City ordinance and
electric utility plant tariff.
111.14   DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
When service is temporarily discontinued at the request of the consumer, or
because of failure to pay for such service, a charge shall be made for the
renewal of the service. In the event the current has been discontinued at any
premises for the non-payment of a bill, after following the guidelines of the
Code of Iowa, such current shall not be continued until the payment of all
claims for the services has been made. Specific electric utility disconnection
and reconnection rules may apply as governed by the Iowa Utilities Board.
111.15   BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
The City Council is the governing body of each City utility except that the
Utility Board, as provided for in Chapter 388 of the Code of Iowa, is the
governing body of the City utility which it operates.
1.   Establishment. A majority of the voters at a regular City election must
approve the proposal for establishment. The proposal is submitted to the voters
by the City Council on its motion or a valid petition as defined in Chapter
362.4 of the Code of Iowa. The proposal shall specify the Board shall consist
of three or five members, in accordance with Chapter 388.2 of the Code of Iowa.
2.   Appointment. All appointments to the Board are made by the Mayor, subject
to the approval of the City Council. The City Council, by resolution, shall
provide for staggered six year terms. The Board has three members.
111.16   MANDATORY REPORTS TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
1.   The Board shall make to the City Council a detailed annual report,
including a complete financial statement for the preceding year.
2.   The Board must submit to the City Council a yearly budget for all
financial activities for the forthcoming year.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122 and 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale, possess,
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39 and 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a liquor license, wine or beer permit, the
Clerk may forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an
investigation and submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred
in the application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine
if they conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve
an application for a license or permit for any premises that does not conform
to the applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a liquor control
license, a retail wine permit, or a retail beer permit and shall endorse its
approval or disapproval on the application, and thereafter the application,
necessary fee, and bond, if required, shall be forwarded to the Alcoholic
Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce for such further action
as is provided by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person holding a liquor license or retail wine or beer permit and the
person’s agents or employees shall not do any of the following:
1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license or permit, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on a weekday, and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. on Sunday
and 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday; however, a holder of a liquor control
license or retail wine or beer permit granted the privilege of selling
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer on Sunday may sell or dispense alcoholic
liquor, wine, or beer between the hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. of
the following Monday, and further provided that a holder of any class of liquor
control license or the holder of a Class “B” beer permit may sell or dispense
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer for consumption on the premises between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on Monday when that Monday is New
Year’s Day and beer for consumption off the premises between the hours of 8:00
a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday when that Sunday is the
day before New Year’s Day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b] and 123.150)
3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona fide
credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its members,
to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to retail sales
by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the mixing
or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any other
beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
8.   Keep on premises covered by a liquor control license any alcoholic liquor
in any container except the original package purchased from the Alcoholic
Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except mixed drinks
or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption. However, mixed
drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the premises and are not for immediate
consumption may be consumed on the licensed premises, subject to rules adopted
by the Alcoholic Beverages Division.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or receptacle
used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or adulterate, by the
addition of any substance, the contents or remaining contents of an original
package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly possess any original
package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
10.   Allow any person other than the licensee, permittee, or employees of the
licensee or permittee to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic
liquor in any bottle or other container that is designed for the transporting
of such beverages, except as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[21])
120.06   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa. (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a liquor control license or beer
permit, as specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical or
mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation of
a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under the
age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco,
or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and irrespective
of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored, adulterated, or mixed
with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper or cover made of paper
or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be construed to include
cigars.
3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes, or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement, or
storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of the
product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or employee of
the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access location.
6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars; cheroots;
stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other
smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other
chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings
of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such manner as to
be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for both chewing
and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee shall be filed with the Clerk. Renewal applications shall be filed
at least five days prior to the last regular meeting of the Council in June. If
a renewal application is not timely filed, and a special Council meeting is
called to act on the application, the costs of such special meeting shall be
paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:    FEE:
July, August, or September     $ 75.00
October, November, or December $ 56.25
January, February, or March    $ 37.50
April, May, or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within 30
days of issuance of a permit.
121.06   REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty in
the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under this
subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period of
14 days.
2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall be
assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s permit
shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22 and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                  122.10 Time Restriction
122.02 Definitions              122.11 Revocation of License
122.03 License Required         122.12 Hearing
122.04 Application for License  122.13 Record and Determination
122.05 License Fees             122.14 Appeal
122.06 Bond Required            122.15 Effect of Revocation
122.07 License Issued           122.16 Rebates
122.08 Display of License       122.17 License Exemptions
122.09 License Not Transferable 122.18 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
 
122.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against fraud,
unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by licensing
and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions, or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases, or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out
of a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03   LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting, or in the business of a transient
merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein provided is in
violation of this chapter.
122.04   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
An application in writing shall be filed with the Clerk for a license under
this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name, permanent
and local address, and business address if any. The application shall also set
forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature
of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business, and the
length of time sought to be covered by the license. An application fee of
$25.00 shall be paid at the time of filing such application to cover the cost
of investigating the facts stated therein.
122.05   LICENSE FEES.
The following shall be provided to and any required fees paid to the Clerk
prior to the issuance of any license.
1.   Completion of solicitor application and all requirements.
2.   Must provide photo ID or driver’s license for each person in the vehicle
that will be soliciting. Proof of auto insurance.
3.   All individuals will be subject to a background check within 48 hours
before permit is granted.
4.   In addition to the application fee, the cost per person per day is $50.00.
There are no annual or weekly fees.
122.06   BOND REQUIRED.
Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.07   LICENSE ISSUED.
If the Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be correct,
and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.
122.08   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10   TIME RESTRICTION.
All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are in
force and effect only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday. No soliciting allowed on holidays or Sundays.
122.11   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Clerk may
revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:
1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in the
application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has otherwise
conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has conducted
the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare, safety, order,
or morals.
The Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local
address. The notice shall contain particulars of the complaints against the
licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes allegedly violated, and
the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12   HEARING.
The Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Clerk may proceed to a determination of
the complaint.
122.13   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
The Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the Clerk
finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this chapter or
State law.
122.14   APPEAL.
If the Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the Clerk shall make a part
of the record the reasons for such revocation or refusal. The licensee, or the
applicant, shall have a right to a hearing before the Council at its next
regular meeting. The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the
Clerk by a majority vote of the Council members present and the Clerk shall
carry out the decision of the Council.
122.15   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.16   REBATES.
Any licensee, except in the case of a revoked license, shall be entitled to a
rebate of part of the fee paid if the license is surrendered before it expires.
The amount of the rebate shall be determined by dividing the total license fee
by the number of days for which the license was issued and then multiplying the
result by the number of full days not expired. In all cases, at least $5.00 of
the original fee shall be retained by the City to cover administrative costs.
122.17   LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling subscriptions
to newspapers.
2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
3.   Students. Students representing the local Community School Districts
conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.
4.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
5.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses or
institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or institutional
use.
122.18   CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit
money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections
122.04 and
122.05. All such organizations are required to submit in writing to the Clerk
the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought, names
and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the period
during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any commissions,
fees, or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount thereof. If
the Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or nonprofit
organization, the Clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license containing the
above information to the applicant. In the event the Clerk denies the
exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may appeal the
decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.14 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 123
MOBILE FOOD UNITS
 
123.01 Definitions         123.06 Specific Regulations: Pushcarts
123.02 License Required    123.07 Specific Regulations: Mobile Food Units
123.03 Application         123.08 Enforcement and Penalties
123.04 Exceptions          123.09 Municipal Infraction
123.05 General Regulations
 
123.01   DEFINITIONS.
1.   “Commissary” means a licensed food facility regulated by a governmental
entity where food is stored, prepared, portioned, packaged, or any combination
thereof, and where such food is intended for consumption at another location or
place from a mobile food unit or pushcart.
2.   “Food establishment” means an operation that stores, prepares, packages,
serves, vends, or otherwise provides food for human consumption. For purposes
of this chapter, “food establishment” does not include:
   A.   An establishment that offers only pre-packaged food that is non-
potentially hazardous.
   B.   A product stand which sells only whole, uncut fresh fruits and
vegetables.
   C.   An establishment operating in a farmers market if potentially hazardous
food is not sold or distributed.
   D.   A residence in which food that is non-potentially hazardous is sold for
consumption off-premises to a consumer customer provided the food is labeled so
as to identify its preparer.
   E.   A private home that receives catered or home-delivered food.
   F.   Child care facilities or food establishments in hospitals or health
care facilities which are subject to regulation by State agencies.
   G.   Supply vehicles.
   H.   Vending machines.
3.   “Mobile food unit” means a motorized, self-propelled food establishment or
a trailer or vehicle towed by a motorized vehicle, that is readily movable, and
which typically operates at a remote location and returns to a base of
operation or commissary at the end of its daily business. Mobile food units are
considered Class IV mobile food units by the Iowa Department of Inspections and
Appeals.
4.   “Mobile food unit zone” means an area of governmentally-owned property
that has been designated as a location upon which food units and push carts may
sell or offer for sale for immediate consumption food or beverage.
5.   “Potentially hazardous food” has the same meaning as provided in Chapter
137F of the Code of Iowa.
6.   “Pushcart” means a single axle, non-motorized cart, with top-loading
capability only.
123.02   LICENSE REQUIRED.
No person shall sell or offer for sale or otherwise engage in business as a
mobile food unit or pushcart within the City without having first obtained a
license to operate as such. A mobile food unit license is a special license and
is required in addition to any other required City business license or State
license or permit the person may hold or be required to hold. A separate mobile
food unit license is required for each mobile food vehicle or pushcart from
which business is conducted in the City. Mobile food unit licenses are not
transferrable or assignable. The license issuance shall be approved by the City
Council by resolution. If said license calls for establishment or operation in
a public park, then approval must be granted by the Parks and Recreation Board
prior to approval by the City Council. The license fee shall be set be
resolution by the City Council. Permits expire at the end of each calendar
year.
123.03   APPLICATION.
An application form available from the City Clerk’s office must be filled out
and submitted to the Building Inspector for processing. The completed
application must be submitted together with a copy of the applicant’s Iowa
retail sales tax permit and proof of liability insurance, including commercial
general liability insurance coverage and automotive liability insurance
coverage. Commercial general liability insurance shall include coverage for
bodily injury, death, and property damage with limits of liability of not less
than $1,000,000.00 per occurrence and aggregate combined single limit.
Automobile liability insurance coverage shall include coverage for bodily
injury, death, and property damage with limits of liability of not less than
$1,000,000.00 per occurrence combined single limit. Certificates of insurance
shall provide that the policy or policies have been endorsed to provide 30-
days’ advance notice of cancellation and 45-days’ advance notice of non-renewal
and 10-days’ advance notice of cancellation for non-payment of premium and that
these notices shall be provided to the City Clerk’s office by email, facsimile,
or mail. Cancellation of required insurance automatically revokes and
terminates the mobile food unit license to operate in the City unless other
insurance policies are provided in a timely manner to the City. The City shall
be added as an additional insured. If the mobile food unit or pushcart sells
food or beverages other than pre-packaged items that do not require hot or cold
handling procedures, the application shall also contain a copy of the mobile
food unit’s license issued by the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals, a
copy of the food establishment license issued by the Iowa Department of
Inspections and Appeals for any commissary kitchen or other premises where food
is prepared, copies of the food protection manager certifications, the name and
address of the facility at which any waste fat, waste oil, or waste grease
generated by the mobile food unit or pushcart operation is disposed of, and a
copy of the certificate of annual compliance issued by the Fire Marshal. Before
a license is issued, the applicant shall pay a license fee.
123.04   EXCEPTIONS.
1.   Temporary food units associated with a private party on private property,
residential property hosted by the owner of the property upon which dispensing
food or beverage such as a graduation party, wedding reception, birthday
celebration, or similar event, are exempt from the licensing provisions of this
chapter provided the unit’s participation if by invitation or contract with the
host and provided the vendor displays proof of its authorization to operate in
Iowa and required health inspection certification. Such events with food units
shall not occur more than once per year at the same property location.
2.   License fees under this chapter are waived for mobile food unit or push
cart vendors operating a mobile food unit or pushcart in connection with a
business on the vendor’s owned or leased real property upon which the vendor’s
brick-and-mortar business is located. Such vendor is subject to all fees under
this chapter in the event the mobile food unit or push cart operates outside
the vendor’s owned or leased real property.
123.05   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
1.   Mobile food units shall have, and at all times maintain, all necessary
licenses and permits from the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals as
well as the City’s required permits and licenses.
2.   Mobile food units shall at all times operate in compliance with all
applicable food, health, and sanitation laws and shall comply with all health
department regulations regarding food service, food storage and preparation,
food handling, and food cooking, and shall have a valid inspection certificate
or permit evincing health department inspection and approval on display and
easily visible to the mobile food unit’s or pushcart’s patrons at all times in
operation.
3.   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall offer for sale or sell food or non-
alcoholic beverage between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
4.   No mobile food unit or push cart may operate in the right-of-way or
outside of a designated mobile vending zone established by the City absent of
the premises a special occurrence permit which must be approved by the Building
Official.
5.   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall operate within a City park unless
such operation occurs within the boundaries of a designated mobile food unit
zone.
6.   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall park or stand its push cart or
vehicle:
   A.   Within 20 feet of a pedestrian crosswalk, or a stop sign, or traffic
light.
   B.   Adjacent to a designated bicycle lane.
   C.   Absent written authorization of the restaurant within 200 feet of any
public entrance to any permanent restaurant during hours the restaurant is open
for business. For purposes of this section, bars that serve food are deemed
restaurants.
   D.   Within 1,200 feet of an approved special event with which the mobile
food unit or pushcart is not directly involved.
7.   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall operate in a manner that violates
this Code of Ordinances concerning noise. A mobile food unit or pushcart
operator shall not call out to, cry out, shout out, or otherwise communicate or
make any noise or use any device to call attention to his or her unit’s or
cart’s location and operation if it violates this Code of Ordinances.
8.   A mobile food unit or pushcart is responsible for keeping and maintaining
the area around and within 50 feet of the mobile food unit or pushcart neat,
clean, and free from trash, debris, garbage, and other hazardous conditions at
all times regardless of whether the trash, debris, or garbage originated from
the operation of the unit or pushcart or was left in the area by a pedestrian
passersby or natural conditions. A mobile food unit or pushcart shall provide
adequate trash receptacles for the public for all garbage from its operation
and from the accumulation of garbage in the area around each unit or pushcart
at all times the unit or pushcart is in operation. At the close of its daily
business, the mobile food unit or pushcart must remove all garbage from the
area and properly dispose of it away from the site of its operation. The
garbage shall not simply be placed in nearby public garbage receptacles
provided for use to the general public at large.
9.   The license required by this chapter, the State sales tax permit, and all
licenses, permits, or certificates required to be displayed by State law, shall
be posted on the mobile food unit or pushcart so as to be readily visible to
all persons conducting business with the mobile food unit.
10.   Mobile food units and pushcarts shall only offer single service food
utensils such as cups, straws, knives, forks , spoons, stirrers, plates, bowls,
wrappers, containers, and similar utensils, which shall be individually wrapped
if usual, and kept in a clean place and only used once in the service of food
or beverage.
11.   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall be left at its operating location
at the end of its business day and shall be removed to its base business
operation location.
12.   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall conduct operations at a location or
in a manner that hinders, impedes, or restricts access to a pay phone, mail
box, emergency call box, traffic control box, fire hydrant, entrance to a
building or a driveway, or any other similar infrastructure.
13.   A mobile food unit or pushcart operating on private property shall not
encroach into any public sidewalk or public right-of-way. All private property
owners allowing mobile food units on property must register with the City as
having a mobile kitchen for public safety purposes.
14.   No mobile food unit or pushcart is allowed on the grounds of any school
unless it has been invited to be there as part of a school-authorized function.
15.   A pushcart and mobile food unit shall not violate parking regulations.
16.   The City reserves the right to move a mobile food unit or pushcart from
any location if determined to be necessary for the provision of emergency or
public services or in the interest of public safety, peace, and welfare.
17.   No mobile food unit or pushcart shall offer for sale, or sell, any
liquor, beer, or wine from such unit.
18.   City-sanctioned or sponsored events may be reserved or restricted by the
City including the designated mobile food vending zone established by the City.
Potential vendors shall check with the Building Inspector for current event
Special Occurrence Permits. Special Occurrence Permits are given on a first
come, first serve basis depending upon the space available. Invitation or
contract must comply with the licensing provisions of this chapter and must
display proof of its authorization to operate in Iowa and required health
inspection certification.
19.   All push cart and mobile food units agree to indemnify and hold harmless
the City from and against any and all loss, cost, damages, or claims to persons
or property, including property of the City, arising out of or claimed to have
arisen out of the operation of a pushcart. In addition, vendors agree to
defend, at no cost to the City, any such claims or lawsuits. The City may, at
its option, join the defense of such claim or lawsuit without relieving the
pushcart vendor from its obligations to indemnify, hold harmless, and defend
the City.
123.06   SPECIFIC REGULATIONS: PUSHCARTS.
1.   A pushcart shall not allow, cause, or obstruct the passage along any
sidewalk, street, alley, or parking lot as a result of a congregation of people
seeking service from the pushcart or because of the size, shape, or placement
of the pushcart so as to interfere, inhibit, or block the normal flow of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
2.   A pushcart shall not sell to any person operating a vehicle on a public
street while the person’s vehicle is located within the traveled portion of the
roadway. A pushcart may sell to a person operating or occupying a motor vehicle
that is legally parked, but may only do so from the curb side of said parked
vehicle.
3.   No pushcart or equipment shall be allowed to remain in the public right-
of-way at the close of business.
4.   All pushcarts and equipment associated with the business shall be
maintained so as to enhance aesthetic and overall appearance of the area in
which the pushcart is operated.
5.   Pushcarts shall be subject to the same permit and fee structure as all
other mobile food units.
123.07   SPECIFIC REGULATIONS: MOBILE FOOD UNITS.
1.   Sales shall be conducted on the sidewalk side of the mobile food unit
whenever possible, away from moving vehicles.
2.   No mobile food unit shall be used for any purpose other than as a mobile
food unit offering food or non-alcoholic beverage to customers.
123.08   ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
The following are authorized to enforce this chapter:
1.   County Health Departments of Scott, Cedar, and Muscatine
2.   City Building Inspector
3.   Durant Police Department
4.   Durant Fire Department
5.   City Clerk
The County Health Departments may elect to pursue enforcement under the
provisions of this chapter or under applicable State laws and regulations with
the sanctions available thereunder.
123.09   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a
municipal infraction and shall be penalized as set forth in
Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.09 Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.04 Playing In                 135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling On Barricaded    135.12 Dumping of Snow
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.07 Washing Vehicles
 
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy, or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard, or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or alley
in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street, alley, right-
of-way, boulevard, or gutter of any public street in the City, any glass, glass
bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
leaves, grass, or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm sewer and
clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer, or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale, or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Clerk.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking, or
alley except in accordance with the following:
1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first obtaining
a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with the City
and shall contain the following:
   A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
   B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is to
be made;
   C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
   D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner that
will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the uninterrupted
passage of water along the gutter on the street.
3.   Barricades, Fencing, and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing, and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing, or warning lights shall be paid to
the City by the permit holder/property owner.
4.   Bond Required. The applicant shall post with the City a penal bond in the
minimum sum of $1,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such
bonds in the State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any
damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of administration of this section. In lieu
of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $1,000.00 may be filed with the City.
5.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
   A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
6.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
7.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City. Backfill
shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved street or
alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and approved by the
City. The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City with notice at
least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is desired.
8.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder/property owner.
9.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
10.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
11.   Permit Fee. The permit shall be $15.00 for the cost of each inspection. A
single excavation shall be deemed to constitute all the digging necessary for a
single connection, or a cut for installing a main not exceeding 100 feet in
length. An additional fee of $15.00 shall be required for each additional 100
feet, or major fraction thereof, of main excavation.
12.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and
insurance certificate, and payment of any required fees, a permit shall be
issued.
13.   Permit Exemption. Utility companies are exempt from the permit
application requirement of this section. They shall, however, comply with all
other pertinent provisions and shall post with the City a yearly bond in the
amount of $1,000,000 to guarantee such compliance.
135.10   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 9
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
9 † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section 136.04 relating to property owner’s
  responsibility for maintenance of sidewalks.
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be thrown,
pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the Business District it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.11 Interference with Sidewalk
                                             Improvements
136.02 Definitions                           136.12 Awnings
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.13 Encroaching Steps
Accumulations
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.14 Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                136.15 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.16 Defacing
136.07 Permit Required                       136.17 Debris on Sidewalks
136.08 Sidewalk Standards                    136.18 Merchandise Display
136.09 Barricades and Warning Lights         136.19 Sales Stands
136.10 Failure to Repair or Barricade
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner,
and to minimize the liability of the City. New subdivisions shall require
sidewalks and follow the Statewide Urban Design and Standards (SUDAS).
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
2.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
3.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete is
placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
4.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
5.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
6.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
7.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling, or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
8.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing the
surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly
from sidewalks. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or accumulations
within 48 hours, the City may do so and assess the costs against the property
owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax. The abutting
property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove snow, ice,
and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk. Property owners will be billed
$50.00 per hour plus a $75.00 administrative fee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b and e])
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition
any sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines or,
in the absence of a curb, any sidewalk between the property line and that
portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12(2)(c))
(Section 136.04 – Ord. 2024-06 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
136.05   CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d and e])
136.06   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street,
court, cul-de-sac, or avenue in the City, and may specially assess the cost of
such improvement to abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions
of Chapter 384 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such person
has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work. A written application for such permit
shall be filed with the City.
136.08   SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the construction
and repair of sidewalks.
2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-drained
soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact, clean,
coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage is to be
determined by the City.
4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
5.   Length, Width, and Depth. Length, width, and depth requirements are as
follows (except in new subdivisions, whereby SUDAS shall be followed):
   A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four inches
thick, and each section shall be no more than five feet in length.
   B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to the
curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than five feet in
length. The business district is defined in Section
60.02(1).
   C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge (edge
nearest the abutting private property) one foot from the property line, unless
the Council establishes a different distance due to special circumstances.
7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the curb.
10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood float
finish.
11.   Ramps For Persons With Disabilities. There shall not be less than two
curb cuts or ramps per lineal block which shall be located on or near
intersections. SUDAS requirements shall be met with all ramps.
136.09   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.10   FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar, or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove, or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12   AWNINGS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any awning over any sidewalk
unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least eight feet above the
surface of the sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of duck, canvas or
other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets securely fastened
to the building, without any posts or other device that will obstruct the
sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of pedestrians.
136.13   ENCROACHING STEPS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.14   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
It is unlawful for a person to:
1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on any
sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the public.
3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings on
or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.15   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.16   DEFACING.
It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing on
any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.17   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.18   MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case shall
more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for such
purposes.
136.19   SALES STANDS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The City Council may refer to the Planning and Zoning Commission any proposal
to vacate a street, alley, or portion thereof for its study and recommendation
prior to further consideration by Council. If requested, the Commission shall
submit a written report including recommendations to the Council within 30 days
after the date of referral.
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
1.   The described portion of the street is not needed for the use of the
public, and therefore, its maintenance at public expense is no longer
justified.
2.   The vacation will not deny owners of property abutting on the portion of
the street reasonable access to their property.
3.   The City Council may retain easement of the vacated portion for City
infrastructure maintenance, success, or improvements.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] and 364.7[3])
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
Ord. 128      October 12, 1973
G-1           December 27, 1988
G-2           August 11, 1992
G-4           May 28, 1996
G-5           July 2, 1998
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Purpose and Definition 138.03 Record Maintained
138.02 Established Grades
 
138.01   PURPOSE AND DEFINITION.
This chapter is designed to meet the requirements of the Code of Iowa for the
establishment of street grades. As used herein, “grade” means the longitudinal
reference lines, as established by ordinance of the Council, which designate
the elevation at which a street or sidewalk is to be built.
138.02   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
The grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.03   RECORD MAINTAINED.
The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are natural
extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the existing
street.
2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section
139.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Durant, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01 Enforcement Officer          145.06 Posting of Signs
145.02 General Definition of Unsafe 145.07 Condemnation of Nuisance
145.03 Unsafe Building              145.08 Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                    Infraction
145.04 Notice to Owner              145.09 Costs
145.05 Conduct of Hearing
 
145.01   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
The Inspector is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
145.02   GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose of this
chapter, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 and 364.12[3a])
145.03   UNSAFE BUILDING.
“Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of the
following criteria:
1.   Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, because of: (i) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; (ii) faulty
construction; (iii) the removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building; (iv) the
deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or (v) any other cause,
is likely to partially or completely collapse.
2.   Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or
any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used.
3.   Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or intended
to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is likely
to cause sickness or disease.
4.   Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
5.   Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04   NOTICE TO OWNER.
The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building or
structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such is
found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement officer. If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to
be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the enforcement officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail to
the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of Iowa, if
the owner is found within the City limits. If the owner is not found within the
City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered mail or
certified mail. The designated period within which said owner or person in
charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement officer shall
begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
2.   Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request
for hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.05   CONDUCT OF HEARING.
If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
1.   Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the date,
time and place of hearing.
2.   Owner’s Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
3.   Determination. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and may
issue such order as it deems appropriate.† 10
 
Notes
   † EDITOR’S NOTE: Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
   Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
10 this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use of this procedure. We
   recommend you review the situation with your attorney before initiating
   procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.
145.06   POSTING OF SIGNS.
The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read: “DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. CITY OF DURANT,
IOWA.” Such notice shall remain posted until the required demolition, removal
or repairs are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without written
permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter the building
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the
building.
145.07   CONDEMNATION OF NUISANCE.
The City may condemn a residential, industrial, or commercial building found to
be a public nuisance, and take title to the property for the public purpose of
disposing of the property under Section 364.7 of the Code of Iowa by conveying
the property to a private individual for rehabilitation or for demolition and
construction of housing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12A)
145.08   RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.09   COSTS.
Costs incurred under Section
145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury. Such costs shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special assessment against
the land on which the building or structure is located, and shall be certified
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes.
In addition, the City may take any other action deemed appropriate to recover
costs incurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
CHAPTER 146
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
 
146.01 Definitions                 146.03 Foundation Requirements
146.02 Conversion to Real Property
 
146.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1)
1.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under the
authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403 which was constructed on or after June 15,
1976, and is required by federal law to display a seal from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
2.   “Manufactured home community” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land
under common ownership upon which ten or more occupied manufactured homes are
harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
building, structure, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of the manufactured home community.
3.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa. A mobile home means any such vehicle
built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building code
and which contains no State or federal seals.
4.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon which
three or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a combination of any of
these homes, are placed on developed spaces and operated as a for-profit
enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical services available.
The term “manufactured home community” or “mobile home park” is not to be
construed to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other
structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational institution,
or company on its own premises and used exclusively to house said entity’s own
labor or students. The manufactured home community or mobile home park shall
meet the requirements of any zoning regulations that are in effect.
146.02   CONVERSION TO REAL PROPERTY.
A mobile home or manufactured home that is located outside a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being placed
on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes except in
the following cases:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.26)
1.   Retailer’s Stock. Mobile homes or manufactured homes on private property
as part of a retailer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a place for human
habitation.
2.   Existing Homes. A taxable mobile home or manufactured home that is located
outside of a manufactured home community or mobile home park as of January 1,
1995, shall be assessed and taxed as real estate, but is exempt from the
permanent foundation requirement of this chapter until the home is relocated.
146.03   FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
A mobile home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system that meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code. The
foundation system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation systems
of surrounding residential structures. Any such home shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10 and 414.28)
CHAPTER 148
WELL PROTECTION
 
148.01 Regulations 148.03 Application
148.02 Distances
 
148.01   REGULATIONS.
The City hereby adopts by reference 567 IAC 43.3(7) and 567 IAC 43.3(7) Table
A.
1.   The City maintains legal control of the land within a 200-foot radius from
a well site for the life of the well.
2.   All separation distances listed in 567 IAC 43.3(7)”b” shall be maintained
for the life of the well.
3.   Ground surface drainage shall be directed away from the well for a minimum
distance of 15 feet in all directions.
148.02   DISTANCES.
No structure or facility of the enumerated types set out in 567 IAC 43.3(7)
Table A shall be located within the distances set forth in the table from any
public well within the City.
148.03   APPLICATION.
The distances set forth in Table A, as amended, shall apply to all public wells
existing and proposed within the City, except for public water wells formerly
abandoned for use by resolution of the City Council.
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements
 
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to the
principal building from the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
2.   Display Building Number. Within three days of the Certificate of Occupancy
date, the owner shall place or cause to be installed and maintained on the
principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous place to the street in
figures not less than four inches in height with a minimum stroke of one-half
inch and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
TREES
151.01 Definitions                   151.10 Tree Topping
151.02 Creation and Establishment of 151.11 Duty To Trim Trees
City Tree Board
151.03 Term of Office                151.12 Pruning; Corner Clearance
151.04 Compensation                  151.13 Dead or Diseased Tree Removal
151.05 Duties and Responsibilities   151.14 Removal of Stumps
151.06 Operation                     151.15 Interference with City Tree Board
151.07 Park Tree Species not to be   151.16 Review By City Council
Planted
151.08 Spacing                       151.17 Street Trees
151.09 Public Tree Care
 
151.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter:
1.   “City foresters” means City staff and volunteers that plant and maintain
trees and support appropriate tree and forest preservation.
2.   “Park trees” means trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation
in public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the City, or to
which the public has free access as a park.
3.   “Right-of-way” means a parcel of land intended to be occupied for streets,
sidewalks, utilities, and other public purposes.
4.   “Street trees” means trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation
on land lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or
ways within the City.
151.02   CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A CITY TREE BOARD.
There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the City which
shall consist of five members, citizens and residents of this City, who shall
be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
151.03   TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be three years
except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first Board shall
be for only one year and the term of two of the members of the first Board
shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term
of any member, a successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the
term.
151.04   COMPENSATION.
Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
151.05   DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
It shall be the responsibility of the Board to
1.   Study, investigate, counsel, and develop, and update annually, and
administer, a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting,
replanting, removal or disposition of trees, shrubs in parks, along streets and
in other public areas.
2.   Propose to City Council a comprehensive seven year tree plan for the
community, and seek Council approval. Such plan will be presented annually to
the City Council and upon their acceptance and approval shall constitute the
official comprehensive City tree plan for the City.
3.   When requested by the City Council, shall consider, investigate, make
findings, report and recommend upon any special matter of questions coming
within the scope of its work.
4.   Serve as the City foresters and work with Public Works Department
concerning park and street trees.
151.06   OPERATION.
The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations,
and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a
quorum for the transaction of business.
151.07   PARK TREE SPECIES NOT TO BE PLANTED.
The following list constitutes the species of trees that cannot be planted in
the right-of-way. No trees may be planted as park trees without written
permission of the City Tree Board. (See permit information.)
1.   Flowering pear, cottonwood, silver maple, ash, willow, poplar, pin oak,
sweet gum, red maple, walnut.
2.   Before any evergreen tree is planted, it must be approved by the Tree
Board. No conifers, shrubs, or bushes shall be planted along any street or
corners.
151.08   SPACING.
The spacing of park trees will be in accordance with the three species size
classes listed in Section
151.07 above, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following:
1.   Small trees, 20 feet
2.   Medium trees, 30 feet
3.   Large trees, 40 feet
4.   Exceptions may be made in special plantings designed and approved by a
landscape architect or the City Tree Board.
151.09   PUBLIC TREE CARE.
The City shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees,
plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
easements, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public
safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public
grounds. The Board may remove, or cause or order to be removed, any tree or
part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which, by reason of its nature,
is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other
public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other
pest.
151.10   TREE TOPPING.
It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or City
Department to top any park tree, or other tree on public property. Topping is
defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches
in diameter within the tree’s crown to such degree so as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other
pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this chapter at the
determinations of the City Tree Board or Municipal Electrical Board.
151.11   DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on or
overhanging the street trimmed so that all branches will be at least 15 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks. If the
abutting property owner fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on
the abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five
days. If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the
required action and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c&e])
151.12   PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
Every owner of any tree on private property overhanging any street or right-of-
way within the City shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not
obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street
intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the
surface and 14 feet above streets. The City shall have the right to prune any
tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of
light along the street from a street light or interferes with visibility of any
traffic control device or sign or interferes with the normal flow of traffic.
151.13   DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL.
The City shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the City when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the City. Said owners shall remove all dead,
diseased, or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a
menace to the safety of the public. The City will notify in writing the owners
of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense within
60 days after the date of service of notice. In the event of failure of owners
to comply with such provisions, the City shall have the authority to remove
such trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner’s property tax notice.
151.14   REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground.
151.15   INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any park
trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
151.16   REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and
decisions of the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the City Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and
make final decision.
151.17   STREET TREES.
Any property owner that wishes to plant in the City right-of-way shall first
apply for a permit from the City. Once the Tree Board has reviewed the location
plans and the species of the planting or tree, they can approve or deny the
permit. No one shall plant in the City right-of-way without a permit.
CHAPTER 152
OUTDOOR FURNACES
 
152.01 Purpose         152.04 Existing Outdoor Furnaces
152.02 Definitions     152.05 Specific Requirements
152.03 Permit Required 152.06 Permit Application and Issuance
 
152.01   PURPOSE.
The Council finds that odors and emissions resulting from the use of outdoor
furnaces may be detrimental to public health and may deprive neighboring
residents of the enjoyment of their property. The purpose of this chapter is to
regulate the installation, construction, and operation of outdoor furnaces
within the City in order to secure and promote public health, comfort,
convenience, safety, and welfare.
152.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use of this chapter:
1.   “Outdoor furnace” means any equipment, device, or apparatus which is
installed, affixed, or situated outdoors or within another structure for the
primary purpose of combustion of fuel to produce heat or energy, used as a
component of a heating system providing heat or hot water to any other
structure.
2.   “Stack” or “chimney” means any vertical structure enclosing a flue that
carries off smoke, exhaust, and other emissions from an outdoor furnace.
152.03   PERMIT REQUIRED.
Except as provided in Section
152.04 below, no person shall cause, allow, or maintain the use of an outdoor
furnace or install, construct, or relocate an outdoor furnace within the City
without first having obtained an outdoor furnace permit from the City Building
Inspector, or cause, allow, or maintain the use of an outdoor furnace after the
expiration or revocation of any permit issued for such outdoor furnace. A
permit shall be valid only for a specific outdoor furnace at a specific
location and shall automatically expire if use of the outdoor furnace ceases
for a contiguous period of two years or more. A permit is transferable to
subsequent owners of the lot on which the outdoor furnace is located.
152.04   EXISTING OUTDOOR FURNACES.
Any outdoor furnace in existence on the effective date of the ordinance from
which this chapter is derived shall be permitted to remain subject to the
following requirement:
1.   Temporary Exemption. Outdoor furnaces in existence on the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall be exempt from the provisions
of this chapter unless:
   A.   The outdoor furnace use of the outdoor furnace ceases for a contiguous
period of two years or more.
   B.   The existing furnace is replaced with a new outdoor furnace
   C.   If the police department receives more than three complaints in seven
days about smoke or smell.
2.   Setback Exemption. The provision of Section
152.05 below shall not apply to any outdoor furnace in existence on the
effective date of this ordinance; provided however, that no existing furnace
shall thereafter be moved to or replaced by a new furnace at any location which
is not in compliance with the setback requirement.
3.   The term “existing” or “in existence” means the outdoor furnace is in
place on a lot operating as of the date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter.
152.05   SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
Except as provided by Section
152.04, all outdoor furnaces shall comply with the following rules and
regulations:
1.   Manufacturer’s Instructions. All outdoor furnace shall be installed,
operated and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. All
new outdoor furnaces shall be laboratory tested and listed to appropriate
safety standards such as UL, ANSI, or other applicable safety standards.
2.   Setbacks. Outdoor furnaces shall be restricted to the rear yard area only,
having a minimum setback of 10 feet from the side and rear property lines.
3.   Permitted Dates of Use. October 1 through April 1.
4.   Allowable Fuels. Only firewood, clean wood, untreated lumber, fossil
fuels, corn, or biomass products (excluding leaves and yard waste) are
permitted to be burned in any outdoor furnace. Burning of other materials is
prohibited. No outdoor furnace shall be utilized as a waste incinerator. All
outdoor furnaces shall burn clean with little or no smoke produced. The term
“clean, dry wood” means wood that has not been painted, stated, coated,
pressure treated with preservatives, not newly cut, and does not contain any
glues as in plywood or other composite woods.
5.   Starting. Petroleum products and chemicals shall not be used to start an
outdoor furnace.
6.   Stack Requirements. Every outdoor furnace shall be equipped with a stack
or chimney through which passes all smoke and other emissions produced by the
furnace. All stacks must be constructed as to withstand high winds and other
weather elements. Stack height shall be in accordance with the following:
   A.   If located 100 feet or less from any residence or occupied structure
not served by the outdoor furnace, the stack must extend to at least two feet
above the eave line of the structure.
   B.   In no event shall a stack extend 16 feet above the ground surface.
   C.   In the event the minimum stack height does not adequately remove fumes
from any adjacent property, additional height or modifications will be
required, at the furnace owner’s expense.
7.   All outdoor furnaces shall comply with all other applicable County, State
or federal regulations.
8.   All outdoor furnaces shall be updated to maintain compliance with this and
any other applicable County, State, or federal regulations as they may be
amended or rewritten from time to time.
152.06   PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
1.   Applications and Permit Fees. An application for an outdoor furnace permit
shall be made to the City Building Inspector. With the application shall be:
   A.   A site plan.
   B.   Name of manufacturer and model number with copy of manufacturer’s
installation, operations, and maintenance instructions.
Any person who violates, disobeys, neglects, or fails to comply with, or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter or any of the
terms and conditions of any permit, regulation, or lawful order of the Building
Inspector made under authority of this chapter shall be guilty of a simple
misdemeanor and a municipal code infraction. Each day that a violation exists
or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 153
PROPANE TANKS
 
153.01 Tanks Allowed               153.04 Tank Restrictions
153.02 Permits                     153.05 Location of Tanks
153.03 Installers and Distributors
 
153.01   TANKS ALLOWED.
Following proper application to the Building Inspector and compliance with all
requirements of the regulations adopted herein, propane gas storage tanks
(hereinafter “propane tanks” or “tank”) not exceeding 500 gallons water
capacity may be installed above ground within the City limits.
153.02   PERMITS.
1.   The Building Inspector will maintain permit forms for installation of
propane tanks. Only liquefied petroleum gas may be stored in such tanks. The
application shall be signed by all of the owners of the lot upon which the tank
is to be installed. No tank shall be installed until a permit application has
been submitted to the Building Inspector, the Building Inspector has received
all information required under this chapter, and a Propane Tank Permit has been
issued by the Building Inspector.
2.   The permit applicant shall provide a legible site diagram proportionally
drawn and to scale. The plan shall include the site business name, address,
tank size, company performing the installation, distances to streets nearby,
distances to all buildings and property lines, electrical power lines,
flammable and combustible liquid storage tanks, and any other information as
required by the Fire Prevention Division UFC 105.3.
3.   A permit shall be obtained for each installation of liquefied petroleum
(LP) gas employing a container or an aggregate of interconnected containers of
over 150 gallons water capacity. Only one tank shall be permitted on any lot.
153.03   INSTALLERS AND DISTRIBUTORS.
Any party who installs tanks in the City shall have attained certification in
NFPA (National Fire Protection Association) 58 (Basic Principles) and 54
(Distribution Systems Operations). These certifications must be current and
updated regularly based upon the accepted schedule for re-certification. Prior
to making such an installation, the installer shall submit plans showing the
location of the tank as it relates to the specific property and any adjacent
property lines. If in compliance with the requirements of this chapter is
shown, a permit may be issued. The installer shall install a liquid propane
detection device within the residence or business served by the propane tank.
153.04   TANK RESTRICTIONS.
1.   The maximum tank size in any area of the City shall not exceed 500 gallons
water capacity.
2.   All liquefied petroleum gas equipment shall be installed in accordance
with the laws of the State of Iowa and nationally accepted standards including
the latest version of NFPA Standards 58 and 54 for the Storage and Handling of
Liquefied Petroleum Gases.
3.   Containers for compressed or liquefied gases shall be constructed in
accordance with approved requirements and shall be so identified.
4.   The City hereby adopts by this reference NFPA Standards 58 and 54. City
Hall shall maintain a copy of said regulations for inspection.
153.05   LOCATION OF TANKS.
Each propane tank shall be located with respect to the nearest important
building and the boundary line of all adjoining property, in accordance with
the following table:
 
Water Capacity    Minimum Distance to Building Distance to Property Line
Up to 500 gallons 10 feet                      10 feet
 
1.   Regardless of tank size, any liquid propane tank filled on site must be
located so that the filling connection and fixed liquid level gauge are at
least 10 feet from any external source of ignition (i.e., open flame, window
air conditioning compressor, central air conditioning unit, and intakes to
direct vented gas appliances or intakes to a mechanical ventilation system.
2.   All propane tanks shall be set on concrete pads or footings of sufficient
size to prevent tipping. Concrete blocks or bricks shall not be used. Weeds,
grass, brush, trash, and other combustible materials shall be kept not less
than 10 feet from LP gas tanks or containers.
3.   When exposed to vehicular traffic, such as an alley, suitable protection
of the regulators, containers, and piping shall be provided. Signage complying
with Iowa law shall be posted in location as required by Iowa law. All tanks
installed in residential areas shall be placed perpendicular to the street or
avenue where the residence is located.
CHAPTER 155
BUILDING CODE
 
155.01 Short Title       155.03 Fees
155.02 Adoption of Codes
 
155.01   SHORT TITLE.
This chapter shall be known as the Durant, Iowa, Building Code, Electrical
Code, Plumbing and Mechanical Code, and the International Fuel Gas Code, and
may be cited as such, and will be referred to as cited above.
155.02   ADOPTION OF CODES.
Pursuant to published notice and public hearing, as required by law, the
following codes, which are currently adopted by the State of Iowa, as they are
from time to time amended, are hereby adopted by the City:
1.   International Building Code 2018
2.   International Property Maintenance Code 2012
3.   Electrical Code 2017
4.   Plumbing Code 2018
5.   Mechanical Code 2018
6.   International Fuel Gas Code 2018
Official copies of the Iowa State Building Codes, the standard codes adopted
therein, are on file in the office of the City Clerk.
155.03   FEES.
The Council shall set by resolution a schedule of fees for building permits.
CHAPTER 156
SOLAR PANELS AND ENERGY SYSTEMS
 
156.01 Purpose and Definitions 156.04 Liability
156.02 Permit Process          156.05 Maintenance and Abandonment
156.03 General Standards
 
156.01   PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations for construction,
installation, and operation of solar energy systems in the City limits. The
standards are intended to ensure that solar technology associated with existing
and new development is designed to be compatible, aesthetic, and safe in
relation to existing and planned uses, and supports development consistent with
the City’s Comprehensive Plan. For use in this chapter, the following terms are
defined:
1.   “Accessory structure” means a structure which is on the same lot or parcel
of property as a principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure.
2.   “Building-integrated solar energy system” means a solar energy system that
is an integral part of a building rather than a separate mechanical device,
replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural component of the
building including, but not limited to, photovoltaic or hot water solar systems
contained within the roofing materials, windows, skylights, and awnings.
3.   “Ground-mounted solar energy system” means a solar energy system that is
free standing, directly installed to the ground, and is not supported by any
building, accessory, or dwelling. For the purposes of this chapter, solar
powered lights used to illuminate exterior areas shall not be included in this
definition.
4.   “Passive solar energy system” means a system that captures solar light or
heat without transforming it to another form of energy or transferring the
energy via heat exchanger.
5.   “Principal structure” means the main structure or building on a lot or
parcel in which the primary permitted use by right occurs.
6.   “Roof-mounted solar energy system” means a solar energy system mounted
directly abutting the roof or as modules fixed to frames which can be tilted
toward the south optimal angle.
7.   “Solar energy system” means a device or structural design feature, a
substantial purpose of which is to provide daylight for interior lighting or
provide for the collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for space
heating or cooling, electricity generations or water hearting.
8.   The solar standards shall apply to all zoning districts, including all
land within the corporate City limits. All applications for solar energy
systems shall be in accordance with this chapter.
156.02   PERMIT PROCESS.
All owners of residential, commercial, or industrial property, shall acquire a
building permit from the City, provide a shade report or equivalent
documentation from a licensed solar installer, and complete the Solar PV
Worksheet (See Appendix), prior to construction of solar energy systems. Roof
mounted solar energy systems need only approved building permit as long as
requirements are met. Ground mounted solar energy require approval from the
Planning and Zoning Commission and possibly the Board of Adjustment. Ground
mounted systems must meet required setbacks and shall not be constructed in any
easement. The process shall follow
Chapter 165 of this Code of Ordinances.
156.03   GENERAL STANDARDS.
1.   All exposed electrical or plumbing lines shall be of a color compatible
with the structure and materials adjacent to the lines (i.e. pipes on walls
shall be the color compatible with the walls, while pipes on roof shall be the
color compatible with the roof).
2.   Exposed frames shall have a non-reflective surface. Aluminum trim, if used
and visible, shall be of a color compatible with the surface upon which it is
installed.
3.   Height. Roof mounted solar energy systems in residential applications
shall not be higher than 10 inches above the roof at any point. Ground mounted
solar energy systems in residential applications shall not exceed 15 feet in
height from grade to total extended height.
4.   Location. The locations of ground mounted systems should avoid being in
eyesight from the street. Roof mounted systems must be placed on rear side
facing roofs which do not front any public street, unless a shade report or
equivalent documentation can be provided that such locations would be
impractical or ineffective by a licensed solar installer. If panels must be
pitched, they shall not exceed a pitch of 25 degrees. The placement of the
panels on angled roofs shall be designed so they do not extend beyond the
ridgeline or edges of the roofline.
5.   Setbacks. Ground mounted systems shall meet all setback requirements for
the applicable zoning district for accessory structures. Roof mounted systems
shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which the
system is mounted.
6.   Easements. Solar energy systems shall not encroach on any platted public
easement.
7.   Screening. Solar energy systems shall be screened from street view to the
extent possible without reducing their efficiency. The applicant shall submit a
landscaping plan with the building permit application for ground mounted solar
energy systems.
8.   Aesthetics. All solar energy systems shall use colors that blend in with
surrounding settings. Reflection angles from collector surfaces shall be
oriented away from neighboring windows. All exposed electrical or plumbing
lines shall be color compatible with the structure and materials adjacent to
the lines (i.e. pipes on walls shall be the color compatible with the walls,
while pipes on roof should be compatible with roof color). Exposed frames shall
have non reflective surface. Aluminum trim, if use and visible, shall be of a
color compatible with the surface upon which it was installed.
9.   Maximum Area of Unit. Ground mounted solar energy systems shall be treated
as an accessory structure and thus are limited in area to the accessory
structure limitations as set by this Code of Ordinances.
10.   Compliance With International Building Codes as adopted by the City
(2018). Building permit applications for ground mounted solar energy systems
shall be accompanied by standard drawings of the solar energy system structure,
including the panels, base and footings. For roof mounted applications,
standard drawings showing the capability of a roof to support such a proposal
shall be submitted for review. An engineering analysis of the system showing
compliance with the International Building Codes as adopted by the City and
certified by a licensed professional engineer shall also be submitted.
11.   Compliance With Federal Regulations. Solar energy systems must comply
with applicable federal regulations.
12.   Compliance With National Electric Code. Building permit applications for
solar energy systems shall be accompanied by a line drawing of the electrical
components in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that the manner of
installation conforms to the National Electric Code 2017.
13.   Utility Notification. No solar energy system shall be installed until
evidence has been given that the electric utility provider has been informed of
the customer’s intent to install an interconnected customer-owned generator and
the customer can show proof that they have received, understand, and agree to
abide by the utility’s requirements for net metering and distributed generation
installation. A written statement from the utility company shall be presented
at the time of applying for a construction building permit showing compliance
with the disconnect requirement.
156.04   LIABILITY.
The owner of a solar energy system shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless
the City and their officials from and against any and all claim, demands,
losses, suits, causes of action, damages, injuries, costs, expenses, and
liabilities whatsoever including attorney fees arising out of the actions or
missions of the operator or the operator’s contractors concerning the
construction or operations of the solar energy facility without limitation,
whether said liability is premised in contract or tort. Owner’s submittal for a
building permit for a solar energy system shall constitute agreement to defend,
indemnify, and hold harmless the City officials.
156.05   MAINTENANCE AND ABANDONMENT.
1.   Maintenance. All solar energy facilities shall be maintained in
operational condition at all times, subject to reasonable maintenance and
repair outages. Operational condition includes meeting all the requirements in
this chapter and permit conditions for a continuous 180 days.
2.   Abandonment. If the City Building Inspector determines the system does not
meet the requirement and has not been used for 180 continuous days, the City
shall provide notice to the owner and the owner shall have 30 days to respond.
If it is determined the system is abandoned, the owner (at the owner’s sole
expense) shall dismantle the system and restore the site to its original
condition and vegetation within 120 days. This determination shall include the
requirements or conditions associated with the solar energy system not being
met for a continuous 180 days.
CHAPTER 157
WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS
 
157.01 Purpose             157.05 General Regulations
157.02 Definitions         157.06 Abandonment
157.03 Permit Requirements 157.07 New Technologies
157.04 Bulk Regulations    157.08 Liability and Damages
 
157.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to balance the need to accommodate wind energy
systems in appropriate locations, while minimizing any adverse visual, safety,
and environmental impacts such systems. In addition, this chapter provides a
permitting process for wind energy systems to ensure compliance with the
provision of the requirements and standards established herein.
157.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Commercial wind energy system” means a wind energy conversion system that
is intended for producing electricity for sale to a rate regulated or non-
regulated utility or for use off-site.
2.   “Dispersed wind energy system” means a wind energy conversion system that
has a rated capacity for 100 kilowatts or more, is incidental and subordinate
to a permitted use on the same parcel, and is intended to produce electricity
primarily for use on-site. Such system may be connected to the electrical grid
when a parcel on which the system is installed also receives electrical power
supplied by a utility company. Excess electrical power generated and not
presently needed for on-site use may be used by the utility company in
accordance with the Section 199 Chapter 15.1 l (5) of the Iowa Administrative
Code.
3.   “Height (system)” means the height above the grade of the wind energy
system, including the tower, generating unit, and the highest vertical
extension of any blades or rotors. Height shall be measured from the adjacent
grade of the tower to the tip of the turbine (blade) at its highest point.
4.   “Small wind energy system” means a wind energy conversion system which has
a rated capacity of up to 100 kilowatts and which is incidental and subordinate
to a permitted use on the same panel. A system is considered a small wind
energy system only if it supplies electrical power solely for on-site use,
except that when a parcel on which the system is installed also receives
electrical power supplied by a utility company, excess power generated and not
presently needed for on-site may be used by the utility company in accordance
with Section 199, Chapter 15.11 (5) of the Iowa Administrative Code.
5.   “Tower wind energy system” means any free-standing vertical structure that
supports the electrical generator, rotor blades, or meteorology equipment.
6.   “Wind energy system (WES)” means an electrical generating facility
comprised of wind turbine and accessory facilities, including but not limited
to: power lines, transformers, substations, and meteorological towers.
157.03   PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
No wind energy system shall be erected, constructed, installed or modified
without first obtaining a special use permit from the Board of Adjustment.
Applicant must provide detailed Site Plan plus any other requirements under
Section
165.35 of the Zoning Code. The Board of Adjustment may review a special use
permit at any time if an approved system does not comply with the rules set
forth in this chapter and conditions imposed by the Board of Adjustment. The
Board may set additional terms or timeframe for compliance for the wind energy
system. The owner/operator of the wind energy system shall obtain all other
permits required by federal, State, and local agencies prior to construction of
the system.
157.04   BULK REGULATIONS.
The placement of the wind energy systems on private or public property shall
comply with the following requirements:
1.   Minimum Lot Size.
   A.   Dispersed wind energy systems shall require a minimum of 10 acres for
location. An additional acre shall be required for each additional wind energy
system allowed.
   B.   No minimum lot size is required for small wind energy systems, provided
they meet all other requirements of this chapter.
2.   Setback Requirements.
   A.   A setback of 110 percent of the total system height from any property
line or overhead utility lines is required. Guy wires shall not extend into the
setbacks. No part of the wind energy system shall be located in any setback or
easement space.
   B.   All wind energy systems shall have a maximum height of 80 feet.
   C.   Ground clearance for the rotor blades shall not extend within 20 feet
of the ground or other structures.
   D.   The base of the system shall not be climbable up to 15 feet from the
ground. A wind energy system shall be located entirely in the rear yard.
   E.   The sound of the system shall not exceed 50 decibels measured at the
property line.
   F.   The system shall not cause vibration for neighboring properties
   G.   No system shall interfere with television, microwave, navigational,
radio, or other personal communication devices transmissions.
   H.   The system shall not cause shadow flicker on neighboring properties.
   I.   All systems shall have a neutral-colored, non-reflective surface.
   J.   All systems shall be constructed in accordance with plans prepared and
stamped by a qualified professional licensed engineer. These plans shall be
submitted for review with the site plan.
   K.   All systems shall be equipped with manual and automatic over speed
controls to limit the blade rotation speed within the design limits of the
system.
   L.   A disbursed wind energy system shall be located a minimum of 1,000 feet
from the nearest inhabited residential structure, school, or place of worship
not on property owned or controlled by the owner/operator of the dispersed wind
energy system.
157.05   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
1.   Insurance Requirements. The following insurance requirements are mandatory
for all wind energy systems.
   A.   Proof of insurance coverage must be provided prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
   B.   Liability insurance with a minimum coverage of $1,000,000.00 shall be
maintained by the owner of the tower wind energy system.
   C.   The City shall be notified if coverage lapses, and reserves the right
to stop use of the system until coverage is reinstated.
2.   Accessory Structure. Wind energy systems shall not be considered as
accessory structures.
3.   Inspections. An inspection of all tower wind energy systems shall be
conducted by a qualified professional at least once every 24 months, with a
copy of the inspection report submitted to the Building Inspector. In the event
property owner fails to provide the required inspection, use of the system must
cease until an inspection is completed and report submitted.
4.   Number Of Systems. No more than one wind energy system may be placed on
any parcel, lot, or tract of land.
5.   Lighting and Signage. No lighting or signage shall be placed on any wind
energy system unless required by law by federal, State or local authority or
FAA regulations.
157.06   ABANDONMENT.
Any wind energy system that is not operated for 180 consecutive days shall be
considered abandoned and shall constitute a nuisance. The owner shall dismantle
and remove the entire system from the property within 90 days of notice from
the City. If the abandoned system is not removed in the specified amount of
time, the City may remove it and recover its costs from the owner of the
property on which it is located.
157.07   NEW TECHNOLOGIES.
Should new technology present itself within the term of any permit or lease
that is more effective, efficient, and economical, the permit holder may
petition the City to allow the upgrade, provided the upgrade does not alter the
conditions set forth in this chapter.
157.08   LIABILITY AND DAMAGE.
The owner or operator of a wind energy conversion system must demonstrate
adequate insurance requirements as follows:
1.   The following insurance requirements are mandatory for all wind energy
systems.
   A.   Proof of insurance coverage must be provided prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
   B.   Liability insurance with a minimum coverage of $1,000,000.00 shall be
maintained by the owner of the tower wind energy system.
   C.   The City shall be notified if coverage lapses, and reserves the right
to stop use of the system until coverage is reinstated.
2.   Upon granting of a permit, applicant shall assume full responsibility for
any and all damages, claims, expenses, liabilities, judgements, and costs of
any kind, including reasonable attorney fees related to or caused by the
erection, location, use, or removal of a facility whether on public or private
property, and shall agree to hold the City harmless, indemnify, and defend it
from all such liabilities incurred or judgements entered against it as a result
of the erection, location, use, or removal of the facility.
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
 
160.01 Definitions                        160.06 Establishment of Variance
                                          Procedures
160.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of   160.07 Nonconforming Uses
Fact and Purpose
160.03 General Provisions                 160.08 Penalties for Violation
160.04 Administration                     160.09 Amendments
160.05 Standards For Floodplain (Overlay)
District
 
160.01   DEFINITIONS.
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel of
the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.
2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also commonly referred to as the “100-year flood”).
3.   “Base flood elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would reach
at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
5.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage
of equipment or materials. “Development” does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
6.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed
area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
   A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic pressure
during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions of
160.05(4)(A) of this chapter; and
   B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage; and
   C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation; and
   D.   The enclosed area is not a basement, as defined in this section.
7.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
8.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
9.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
10.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also includes
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
11.   “Factory-built home park or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
12.   “500-year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which has a two-tenths
percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which, on
average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 500 years.
13.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
14.   “Flood insurance rate map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as part
of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which delineates
both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community.
15.   “Flood insurance study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map(s). The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
16.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water
as a result of a flood.
17.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing, and floodplain management regulations.
18.   “Flood proofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
19.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry
and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood flows to
the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface elevation of
the base flood by more than one foot.
20.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the special flood hazard area
outside the floodway.
21.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
22.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a State inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either: (i) by an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
23.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a building
including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition of
“enclosed area below lowest floor” are met.
24.   “Maximum damage potential uses” means hospitals and like institutions;
buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or instruments of
great public value; buildings or building complexes containing materials
dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power installations needed
in emergency or other buildings or building complexes similar in nature or use.
25.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for filling,
grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
26.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks) means those
structures or development for which the start of construction commenced on or
after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted
by the community.
27.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
28.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
29.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means repairs
necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do not
trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
   A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing roofing
tiles and replacing siding.
   B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets,
counter tops and similar finish work.
   C.   Basement sealing.
   D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
   E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating, or air
conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.
30.   “Special flood hazard area” (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, and/or A99.
31.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
32.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities,
and/or other similar uses.
33.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition
would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be included in
the estimated cost of repair.
34.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure either:
(i) before the start of construction of the improvement; or (ii) if the
structure has been substantially damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
   B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building by
25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of the
first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be added
to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in original
floor space would exceed 25 percent.
35.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of the
floodplain management regulations.
36.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
160.02   STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE.
1.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has, in Chapter 414 of the Code of
Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning regulations to
secure safety from flood and to promote health and the general welfare.
2.   Findings of Fact.
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation
which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
   B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused by:
(i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood damages
which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately elevated or
otherwise protected from flooding; and (ii) the cumulative effect of
obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
   C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Paragraph 2(A) of this section with provisions designed to:
   A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows so
that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
   B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
   C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
   D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
   E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.03   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies. The provisions of this chapter shall apply
to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City which are located within the
boundaries of the Floodplain (Overlay) District as established in this section.
2.   Establishment of Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Cedar County and Incorporated Areas, City of Durant, Panel
19031C0400C, dated August 19, 2013, which were prepared as part of the Flood
Insurance Study for Cedar County is hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be the Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Cedar County Flood Insurance Study
is hereby adopted by reference and is made a part of this chapter for the
purpose of administering floodplain management regulations.
3.   Rules for Interpretation of Floodplain (Overlay) District. The boundaries
of the Floodplain (Overlay) District areas shall be determined by scaling
distances on the official Flood Insurance Rate Map. When an interpretation is
needed as to the exact location of a boundary, the Floodplain Manager or
Building Inspector shall make the necessary interpretation. The Board of
Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an
error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain
Manager or Building Inspector in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
4.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no structure
shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered without full
compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations
which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
5.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
6.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of
this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
7.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay) District areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the City or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
8.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
160.04   ADMINISTRATION.
1.   Appointment, Duties and Responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator.
   A.   The Floodplain Manager is hereby appointed to implement and administer
the provisions of this chapter and will herein be referred to as the
Administrator.
   B.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to the following:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
      (2)   Review floodplain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
      (3)   Record and maintain a record of: (i) the elevation (in relation to
North American Vertical Datum 1988 of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new or substantially improved structures; or (ii) the elevation to which
new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
      (4)   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of Natural
Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a watercourse and
submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
      (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals, and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.
      (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administration an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administration.
      (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administration of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
      (8)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Board of Adjustment
of potential conflict.
      (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps
when:
         a.   Development placed within the Floodway (Overlay) District results
in either of the following: (i) an increase in the base flood elevations; or
(ii) alteration to the floodway boundary;
         b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base elevation; or
         c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
      Within six months of the completion of the development, the applicant
shall submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter
of Map Revision.
      (10)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the standards
of this chapter.
      (11)   Forward all requests for variances to the Board of Adjustment for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Board of Adjustment.
2.   Floodplain Development Permit.
   A.   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any manmade
change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited to
buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or
drilling operations), including the placement of factory-built homes.
   B.   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished by
the Administrator and shall include the following:
      (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
      (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(e.g., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
      (3)   Location and dimensions of all buildings and building additions.
      (4)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
      (5)   Elevation of the base flood.
      (6)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988 of the
lowest floor (including basement) of buildings or of the level to which a
building is to be floodproofed.
      (7)   For buildings being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the building prior to the improvements.
      (8)   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
   C.   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefor. The Administrator shall not issue
permits for variances except as directed by the Board of Adjustment.
   D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished fill,
building floor elevations, flood proofing, or other flood protection measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to
the use or occupancy of any structure.
160.05   STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT.
All uses must be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and meet the
following applicable performance standards. Where base flood elevations and
floodway data have not been provided on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The
applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources
with sufficient technical information to make such determination.
1.   All Development. All development within the Floodplain (Overlay) District
shall:
   A.   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   B.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood damage.
   C.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant to
flood damage.
   D.   Obtain all other necessary permits from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Iowa Department
of Natural Resources.
2.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one foot above the base flood elevations. Construction shall be upon
compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one foot above the
base flood elevations and extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the
limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such
as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed subject to favorable
consideration by the Board of Adjustment, where existing topography, street
grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such cases, the methods
used must be adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the various
forces and hazards associated with flooding. All new residential structures
located in areas that would become isolated due to flooding of surrounding
ground shall be provided with a means of access that will be passable by
wheeled vehicles during the base flood. However, this criterion shall not apply
where the Administrator determines there is sufficient flood warning time for
the protection of life and property. When estimating flood warning time,
consideration shall be given to the criteria listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa
Administrative Code.
3.   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be flood proofed to such a level. When
flood proofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State of
Iowa shall certify that the flood proofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the
base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
4.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
   A.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including basements)
that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings, with positioning on at least two walls,
having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot
of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access and
low damage potential storage.
   B.   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   C.   New and substantially improved structures must be constructed with
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities elevated or flood proofed to a minimum of one foot
above the base flood elevation.
5.   Factory-Built Homes.
   A.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including those
placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be elevated
on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure is a
minimum of one foot above the base flood level.
   B.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including those
placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be anchored
to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors. Anchorage systems may include, but are not limited to, use of over-
the-top or frame ties to ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
6.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
   A.   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
   B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well as
the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood elevation.
   C.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water supply
treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a
level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood
elevation.
   D.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
7.   Storage of Materials and Equipment. Storage of equipment and materials
that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or:
(i) not subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent movement due
to flood waters; or (ii) readily removable from the area within the time
available after flood warning.
8.   Flood Control Structures. Flood control structural works such as levees,
flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base flood
with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for adequate
interior drainage. In addition, structural flood control works shall be
approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
9.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must be
designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations must be
approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
10.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Floodplain (Overlay) District.
11.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses. Detached garages, sheds, and
similar structures that are incidental to a residential use are exempt from the
base flood elevation requirements where the following criteria are satisfied.
   A.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential. Its
size shall not exceed 600 square feet in size. Those portions of the structure
located less than one foot above the BFE must be constructed of flood-resistant
materials.
   B.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage potential
purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure shall not
be used for human habitation.
   C.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site so
as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
   D.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement.
   E.   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above the base
flood elevation.
   F.   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Subsection 4(A) of this section.
   Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a structure
may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of the
structure and its contents.
12.   Recreational Vehicles.
   A.   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of Subsection 5
of this section regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes when
the following criteria are satisfied.
      (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less than
180 consecutive days; and
      (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   B.   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
Subsection 5 of this section regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built
homes.
13.   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be buried
in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent
rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
14.   Maximum Damage Potential Uses. All new or substantially improved maximum
damage potential uses shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated
a minimum of one foot above the elevation of the 500-year flood, or together
with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level.
When flood proofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the
State of Iowa shall certify that the flood proofing methods used are adequate
to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces
and other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below
the base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are flood proofed shall be maintained by the Administrator. Where
0.2% chance flood elevation data has not been provided in the Flood Insurance
Study, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute
such data. The applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of
Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to make such
determinations.
160.06   ESTABLISHMENT OF VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
1.   The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon request in specific cases such
variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
   A.   Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
   B.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   C.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood protection
for buildings than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the applicant
shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator that: (i)
the issuance of a variance will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00 of insurance coverage;
and (ii) such construction increases risks to life and property.
2.   Factors upon Which the Decision of the Board of Adjustment Shall Be Based.
In passing upon applications for variances, the Board shall consider all
relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
   A.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
   B.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or downstream
to the injury of others.
   C.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
   D.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
   E.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
City.
   F.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
   G.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding for
the proposed use.
   H.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
   I.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area.
   J.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles.
   K.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood water expected at the site.
   L.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
   M.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this chapter.
3.   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
   A.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
   B.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
   C.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed restrictions.
   D.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes, levees,
and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the Department of
Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative to achieving
the purpose of this chapter.
   E.   Floodproofing measures.
160.07   NONCONFORMING USES.
1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but which
is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued
subject to the following conditions:
   A.   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future use
of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
   B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
2.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means, including
flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50 percent of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless it is
reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
160.08   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
the requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than $500.00 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy violation.
160.09   AMENDMENTS.
The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to time
be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
165.01 Title                           165.23 Exceptions and Modifications
165.02 Purpose                         165.24 Parking Requirements For All
                                       Districts
165.03 Interpretation                  165.25 Off-Street Loading Spaces
                                       Required
165.04 Definitions                     165.26 R-1 Residential District
165.05 Establishment of Districts      165.27 R-1A Residential District
165.06 Official Zoning Map             165.28 R-2 Residential District
165.07 Interpretation of Boundaries    165.29 R-3 Mobile Home Park District
165.08 Annexation of Territory         165.30 RT-1 Residential Transitional
                                       District
165.09 Conformance Required            165.31 C-1 Central Business District
165.10 Nonconforming Uses and          165.32 C-2 General Business District
Structures
165.11 Permit Required                 165.33 I-1 Light Industrial District
165.12 Accessory Buildings             165.34 I-2 Heavy Industrial District
165.13 Fences                          165.35 Special Use Permits
165.14 Home Occupations and Businesses 165.36 Site Plan Requirements
165.15 Street Frontage Required        165.37 Landscaping Requirements For All
                                       Districts
165.16 Required Yard                   165.38 Cell Phone Towers
165.17 Building on Lots of Record      165.39 Administration and Enforcement
165.18 Corner Lots                     165.40 Board of Adjustment
165.19 Front Yard                      165.41 Amendments and Fees
165.20 Zoning Districts Dividing       165.42 Complaints Regarding Violations
Property
165.21 Parking, Storage, and           165.43 Penalties for Violation
Recreational Equipment
165.22 Prohibited Storage of Motor
Vehicles
 
165.01   TITLE.
This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the “Zoning Regulations
of the City of Durant, Iowa,” and shall be referred to herein as “this
chapter.”
165.02   PURPOSE.
The zoning regulations as set forth herein are deemed necessary to encourage
the reasonable use of land while protecting the health, safety, and general
welfare of the residents and property owners of the City. The Council, per the
authority of Chapter 414 of the Code of Iowa, and in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan, has put forth specific regulations and corresponding map or
district boundaries to promote and ensure the appropriate use of land and the
compatibility and consistency of uses in a particular area. The regulations are
intended as well to protect the value and character of buildings and property
while encouraging efficient and generally accepted urban design patterns and
principles.
165.03   INTERPRETATION.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements. Where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions of law or by other
rules or regulations or ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall
control.
165.04   DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future, the singular number
shall include the plural and the plural number includes the singular; the word
“shall” is mandatory, and word “may” is permissive; the word “person” includes
a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company, or corporation
as well as an individual; the words “used” or “occupied” include the words
intended, designed, or arranged to be used or occupied.
1.   “Accessory use” or “accessory structure” means a use or structure on the
same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the
principal use or structure. An accessory use or structure is only allowed when
a principal use or structure exists on the same lot.
2.   “Agricultural use” means land used for the science or occupation concerned
with cultivating land, raising crops, and feeding, breeding, and raising
livestock; farming including the production of crops, livestock, or poultry for
income purposes.
3.   “Alley” means a public way, other than a street, 20 feet or less in width,
affording secondary means of access to abutting property. Used primarily for
vehicular service access to the rear or side of properties which otherwise has
primary access on a public street.
4.   “Alterations, structural” means any change to the supporting members or
components of a building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders,
including expansion and substantial change to exterior walls of building and
roof.
5.   “Apartment” means a room or set of rooms fitted especially with
housekeeping facilities and usually rented or leased as a dwelling.
6.   “Basement” means a story partly or wholly below grade. A basement is
counted as a story for the purpose of height regulations if more than 50
percent of its height is above the level of the adjoining ground level. For
sloping or terraced sites, the average grade adjoining the basement area is
used to determine whether it shall be counted as a story.
7.   “Bed and Breakfast” means a house or portion thereof where short-term
lodging, rooms, and/or meals are provided. Such use requires approval of a
special use permit to ensure such use is appropriate on a given site.
8.   “Billboard” means structures, regardless of the material used in the
construction of the same, that are erected, maintained, or used for public
display of posters, painted signs, wall signs, whether the structure be placed
on the wall of painted on the wall itself, pictures or other pictorial reading
matter which advertise a business or attraction which is not carried on or
manufactured in or upon the premises upon which said signs or billboards are
located.
9.   “Boarding house” means a building other than a hotel or motel where, for
compensation, lodging and meals are provided for four or more persons.
10.   “Buildable area” means the portion of a lot remaining after required
yards have been provided.
11.   “Building” means any structure designed or intended for the support,
enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, or property, but not
including signs or billboards.
12.   “Building, height of” means the vertical distance from the average
natural grade at the building line to the highest point of the coping of a flat
roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the average height of the
highest gable of a pitch or a hip roof.
13.   “Building setback line” means, measured from the front lot line or front
property line, a distance equal to the setback requirement of the particular
district in which the building is located. The building setback line in the R-
1 Residential District is measured 25 feet from the front property line,
extending across the lot. On a cul-de-sac or having a curved front property
line, the average point along said property line shall be used in determining
the required setback line.
14.   “Feed lot” means any parcel of land or premises on which the principal
use is the concentrated feeding within a confined area of livestock (e.g.
cattle, hogs, or sheep). The term does not include areas which are used for the
raising of crops or other vegetation, and upon which livestock are allowed to
graze or feed.
15.   “Home occupation” means an occupation or profession which is carried on
in a residence which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling unit for residential purposes. Such use shall not be visibly or
readily apparent from any public way, other than one small wall sign permitted
as outlined herein, and shall be operated in a manner which protects and
maintains the residential character of the neighborhood.
16.   “Junk yard” means any area where waste, discarded, or salvaged materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, baled or packed, disassembled, kept, stored, or
handled, including house wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and places or yards
for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment; but not including areas where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and not including the processing of
used, discarded, or salvaged materials as part of manufacturing operations.
17.   “Kennel (dog)” means any premises on which three or more dogs, six months
old or older, are kept.
18.   “Landscaping” means to improve the aesthetic appearance of a piece of
land by changing its contours and adding ornamental features and plantings.
Natural vegetation such as trees, shrubs, and ground covers used in landscaping
have been shown to reduce stormwater runoff, improve water quality, improve air
quality, and enhance the quality of life and economic value of a property.
19.   “Lot” means a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum
zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such yards and
other open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an
improved public street, or on an approved private street, and may consist of:
   A.   A single lot of record;
   B.   A portion of a lot of record;
   C.   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of record
and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record; or
   D.   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds;
provided that in no case of division or combination shall any residual lot or
parcel be created which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
20.   “Lot, corner” means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection.
21.   “Lot depth” means the mean horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
22.   “Lot, double-frontage” means a lot having a frontage on two non-
intersecting streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
23.   “Lot, interior” means a lot other than a corner lot.
24.   “Lot lines” means the lines bounding a lot, including the right-of-way
line of any public road or highway acquired by easement.
25.   “Lot of record” means a lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in
the office of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
26.   “Lot width” means the width of a lot measured at the building line and at
right angles to its depth.
27.   “Lot, reversed frontage” means a corner lot, the side street line of
which is substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first
platted lot to its rear.
28.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle which at any time was used, maintained,
or so originally constructed as to permit being used as a conveyance upon
highways or public streets, or waterways, and duly licensed as such; so
designed and so constructed as to permit occupancy thereof as a dwelling unit
or sleeping place for one or more persons, whether attached or unattached to a
permanent foundation. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as permitting
a mobile home in other than an approved mobile home park.
29.   “Nonconforming use” means any building or land lawfully occupied by a use
at the time of passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter (or amendment
thereto) which does not conform to the use regulations of the district in which
it is situated. It is the intent of this chapter that such uses not continue
indefinitely but such buildings or land become legal conforming uses over time
in the district in which they are located.
30.   “Parking space, off-street” means a space adequate for parking an
automobile with room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly
related access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room. Required off-
street parking areas for three or more automobiles shall have individual spaces
marked, and shall be so designed, maintained, and regulated that no parking or
maneuvering incidental to parking shall be on any public street, walk, or
alley, and so that any automobile may be parked and un-parked without moving
another. For purposes of rough computation, an off-street parking space and
necessary access and maneuvering room may be estimated at 300 square feet, but
off-street parking requirements will be considered to be met only when actual
spaces meeting the requirements above are provided and maintained, improved in
a manner appropriate to the circumstances of the case, and in accordance with
all ordinances and regulations of the City.
31.   “Porch, unenclosed” means a roofed projection which has no more than 50
percent of each outside wall area enclosed by a building or siding material
other than meshed screens.
32.   “Principal use” means the main use of land or structures as distinguished
from an accessory use.
33.   “Rooming house” means a building where a room or rooms are provided for
compensation to four or more persons.
34.   “Sign” means any device designed to inform or attract the attention of
persons not on the premises on which the sign is located, provided however that
the following shall not be included in the application of the regulations
herein:
   A.   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only property
numbers, post office boxes, names of occupants of premises, or other
identification of premises not having commercial connotations:
   B.   Flags and insignia of any government except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion;
   C.   Legal notices; identification, informational, or directional signs
erected or required by governmental bodies;
   D.   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts, or moving lights;
   E.   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private property,
but bearing no advertising matter.
1.   The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the entire area,
within a regular geometric form comprising all of the display area of the sign
and including all of the elements of the matter displayed. Frames and
structural members not bearing advertising matter shall not be included in
computation of surface area.
35.   “Sign (exterior)” means a sign which directs attention to a business,
profession, service, product, or activity sold or offered upon the premises
where such a sign is located. An exterior sign may be a sign attached flat
against a building or structure, or projecting out from a building or structure
or erected upon the roof of a building or structure.
36.   “Sign (free-standing or post)” means any sign erected or affixed in a
rigid manner to any pole or post, and which carries any advertisement strictly
incidental and subordinate to a lawful use of the premises on which it is
located, including signs, or sign devices indicating the business transacted,
services rendered, or goods sold or produced on the premises by an occupant
thereof.
37.   “Special use” means a use which has special or unique characteristics,
that requires a careful review of its location, design, and operation to ensure
the desirability of permitting its establishment on any given site. A special
use permit is required for such use as approved by the Board of Adjustment per
Sections
165.35 and
165.39 of this chapter.
38.   “Story” means that portion of a building included between the surface of
any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor
above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling or roof next above
it.
39.   “Story, half” means a space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and exterior wall face not more than four feet
above the top floor level.
40.   “Street line” means the right-of-way line of a street.
41.   “Street or road, public” means any thoroughfare or public way not less
than 20 feet in width, which has been dedicated to the public or deeded to the
City or County for street purposes; and also any such public way as may be
created after enactment of this chapter, provided the right-of-way is 50 feet
or more in width.
42.   “Structural alterations” means any replacement or changes in the type of
construction or in the supporting members of a building, such as load bearing
walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, beyond ordinary repairs and
maintenance.
43.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected with a fixed location
on the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls and
fences (more than six feet in height), billboards, poster panels, solar
collectors, and dish antennae.
44.   “Travel trailer” means a recreational vehicle, with or without motive
power; designed as a temporary dwelling, not exceeding eight feet in width and
40 feet in length, exclusive of separate towing unit. Such vehicles are
customarily and ordinarily used for travel or recreational purposes and not
used for permanent habitation.
45.   “Yard” means an open space on the same lot with a building or structure,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from 30 inches above
the general ground level of the graded lot upward, except as may be provided by
other sections of this chapter. In measuring a yard for the purpose of
determining the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the least
distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used. In measuring
a yard for the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the least
distance between the lot line and nearest permitted building shall be used.
46.   “Yard, front” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot and
measured between the front lot line and the building or any projection thereof,
other than the projection of the usual steps or unenclosed porches. On corner
lots, the front yard shall be considered as the yard adjacent to the street
upon which the lot has its least dimension.
47.   “Yard, rear” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot and
measured between the rear lot line and the building or any projections other
than steps, unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On both corner lots and
interior lots the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
48.   “Yard, side” means a yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard
and measured between the side lot lines and the nearest building.
165.05   ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
In order to carry out the purpose and intent of this chapter, the area of the
City is hereby divided into nine zoning district classifications as follows:
1.   R-1   Single Family Dwelling District
2.   R-1A   Single and Two Family Dwelling District
3.   R-2   Multiple Family Dwelling District
4.   R-3    Mobile Home Park Dwelling District
5.   RT-1 Residential Transitional District
6.   C-1   Central Commercial District
7.   C-2   General Commercial District
8.   I-1   Light Industrial District
9.   I-2   Heavy Industrial District
165.06   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
The boundaries of the districts established in Section
165.05 are indicated upon the Official Zoning Map of the City, which map is
made a part of this chapter by reference hereto. The Official Zoning Map and
all the notations, references, and other matters shown thereon shall be as much
a part of this chapter as if the notations, references, and other matters set
forth by said map were all fully described herein.
The Official Zoning Map shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk and
shall bear the signature of the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk, under the
certification that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Section
165.06 of this chapter. If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
changes are made in the district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the
Official Zoning Map, the ordinance number and date of said change shall be
recorded by the City Clerk on the Official Zoning Map and in the Editor’s Note
below.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
Ordinance No. 2015-01, adopted September 14, 2015, and amendments thereto
are contained in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances and are in full
force and effect. The following ordinances and resolutions have been adopted
amending the Official Zoning Map of the City and have not been codified
herein, but are specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and
effect.
ORDINANCE / RESOLUTION ADOPTED   ORDINANCE / RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. 2021-26           5/10/2021
 
165.07   INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARIES.
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the right-of-way line of a
street, highway, or railroad shall be construed as following such right-of-way
line.
3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall be
construed as following such lot lines.
4.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following corporate limits shall be
construed as following such corporate limits.
5.   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to follow
such shorelines, and in the event of change in the shoreline shall be construed
as moving with the actual shoreline; boundaries indicated as approximately
following the centerlines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of
water shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
6.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated in
Subsections 1 through 5 above shall be so construed. Distances not specifically
indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by the scale of the
map;
7.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at variance
with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances not
covered by Subsections 1 through 6 above, the Board of Adjustment shall
interpret the district boundaries.
165.08   ANNEXATION OF TERRITORY.
All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the City shall be considered as
lying in the R-1 Residential District until such classification shall have been
changed by amendment in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
165.09   CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no
building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity with all of
the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
165.10   NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
Within the various districts established by this chapter or amendments that may
later be adopted, there exist structures and uses of land and structures which
were lawful prior to the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter but
which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the provisions of
this chapter. It is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities
to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. Such
uses or structures are termed “legal nonconforming uses or structures” and
declared by this chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
districts involved and therefore identified for eventual removal.
1.   Nonconforming Use of Land, Use of Structures, and Structures In Any
Residential District.
   A.   Nonconforming Use of Land. The lawful use of land upon which no
building or structure is erected or constructed which becomes nonconforming
under the terms of this chapter as adopted or amended may be continued so long
as it remains or amendment of this chapter. No such nonconforming use shall be
moved in whole or in part to any other portion of the lot or parcel which was
not occupied by such use at the effective otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
      (1)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance;
      (2)   If any such nonconforming use ceases for any reason for a period of
more than six months, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the
district regulations for the district in which such land is located.
   B.    Nonconforming Use of Structures. If a lawful use of a structure, or of
a structure and land in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this ordinance, that would not be allowed in the district under
the terms of this ordinance, the use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   No existing structure devoted entirely or in part to a use not
permitted by this chapter in the district in which it is located, except when
required by law, shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed, moved, or
structurally altered, unless the use is changed to a use permitted in the
district in which such structure is located;
      (2)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter. No such use
shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building;
      (3)   If no structural alterations are made, a nonconforming use of a
structure may be changed to another nonconforming use of a similar nature
within the same or a more restricted classification. Whenever a nonconforming
use has been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, such use
shall not thereafter be changed to a less restrictive use;
      (4)   In the event that a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure
and land in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for a period of two
years, the use of the same shall thereafter conform to the uses permitted in
the district in which it is located. Where nonconforming use status applies to
a structure and land in combination, removal or destruction of the structure
shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land;
      (5)   Any structure devoted to a use made nonconforming by this chapter
that is destroyed by any means to an extent of 60 percent of more of its
replacement cost at the time of destruction, exclusive of the foundations,
shall not be reconstructed and used as before such happening. If the structure
is less than 60 percent destroyed above the foundation, it may be reconstructed
and used before provided it be done within six months of such happening, and be
built of like or similar materials.
   C.   Nonconforming Structures. Where a structure exists at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter that
could not be built under the terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on
area, lot coverage, height, yards, of other characteristics of the structure or
its location on the lot, such structure may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which
increases its nonconformity;
      (2)   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of 60
percent or more of its replacement cost at time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
2.   Nonconforming Use of Land, Use of Structures, and Structures In Any
District Other Than a Residential District.
   A.   Nonconforming Use of Land. The regulations described in Subsection 1A
shall also apply to this subsection.
   B.   Nonconforming Use of Structures. The regulations described in
Subsection 1B shall also apply to this subsection with the following exception:
Any structure in any district other than a residential district devoted to a
use made nonconforming by this chapter may be structurally altered or enlarged
in conformity with the lot area, lot coverage, frontage yard, height, and
parking requirements of the district in which it is located, provided such
construction shall be limited to buildings on land owned, of record, by the
owner of the land devoted to the nonconforming use prior to the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter. Such structural alteration or
enlargement shall not authorize the substitution of a nonconforming use that is
less restrictive than the one to which the structure was devoted at the time of
passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
   C.    Nonconforming Structures. The regulations described in Subsection (1)
(C) shall also apply to this subsection.
3.   Required Repairs and Unauthorized Nonconformities.
   A.    Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the restoring to a
safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any
official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of such
official.
   B.   Any use of land, use of structure, or structure, in existence at the
time of adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter which was not an
authorized nonconformity under any previous zoning ordinance or similar
regulations shall not be authorized to continue its nonconforming status
pursuant to this chapter or amendments thereto.
165.11   PERMIT REQUIRED.
Permits are required for all new construction, building alterations, accessory
buildings, and concrete work. Permits are also required for signs, fences,
swimming pools over 5,000 gallons, electrical, plumbing, and HVAC/mechanical.
Permits are not required for windows and siding. All construction must be done
by registered and licensed contractors in Iowa, licensed electricians in Iowa,
licensed plumbers in Iowa, and licensed HVAC/mechanical technicians in Iowa.
1.   Building permit applications are available at City Hall. Two sets of
building plans must be provided with the application. The applicant must
identify the contractor, electrician, plumber, and HVAC technician and their
Iowa license numbers on the building permit application. All construction
projects will require applicable staking, footing, plumbing, framing,
electrical, mechanical, and final inspections. The City requires a minimum 48
hours prior notice to have a project inspected and approved. All building
permits are valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance. A six-
month extension may be obtained for projects having unusual circumstances
prohibiting their completion within a one-year period. Projects not completed
within the one-and-one-half-year period will be subject to City nuisance and
abatement proceedings.
2.   The applicant warrants that said applicant is familiar with, understands,
and will abide by the provisions of the International Building Code of
Ordinances, National Electric Code, Code of Iowa, related rules, and this Code
of Ordinances, sanitary sewer connections and related matters, water
connections and related matters, electrical wiring and related matters,
building codes and related matters, and excavation.
165.12   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
Accessory buildings shall comply with the following requirements:
1.   A building permit is required for all accessory buildings exceeding 12
feet by 12 feet. A sketch plan shall be submitted to clearly illustrate the
location, size, height, and architectural look of the proposed building prior
to obtaining a building permit.
2.   Locating and marking lot lines or property lines for the purpose of
ensuring that accessory buildings are constructed meeting the minimum setbacks
as stated in this section is the responsibility of the property owner
constructing the accessory building.
3.   No accessory building may be constructed on a lot prior to the initiation
of construction of the principal building or use of the property.
4.   Accessory buildings are prohibited in the required front yard, must meet
the minimum side yard setback of the district in which it is located, and can
be located no closer than eight feet from the side and eight feet from the rear
property lines when located in the rear yard.
5.   Accessory buildings with garage doors fronting on an alley, or street in
the case of a corner lot, must be setback a minimum 20 feet from said right-of-
way to permit safe access.
6.   An accessory building shall not occupy more than 40 percent of the rear
yard, and shall not exceed 16 feet in height; however, this regulation shall
not be interpreted to prohibit the construction of a garage on a minimum rear
yard, provided that such garage does not exceed 576 square feet.
7.   All accessory buildings shall be constructed with materials substantially
the same as used in the dwelling or building of principal use. All siding used
for accessory buildings must be substantially the same material as the siding
of the dwelling or building of principal use. The roof pitch of all accessory
buildings shall be substantially the same as the pitch of the roof of the
dwelling or building of principal use.
8.   A building or structure intended for temporary storage shall not be termed
an accessory building or accessory structure. No building or structure designed
for temporary storage or seasonal use shall be allowed.
9.   Free-standing detached carports are prohibited by this chapter. All
carports must be attached to principle building or existing garage.
10.   Carports shall be considered an accessory structure with the same
requirements as a garage. Carports must be used for storage of vehicles with a
motor, and have a permanent dust free parking space.
165.13   FENCES.
Fences shall comply with the following requirements.
1.   A building permit is required for all fences. Locating lot lines or
property lines for the purpose of ensuring that fences are constructed on the
subject property and not on neighboring property is the responsibility of the
property owner constructing the fence. Fences cannot be constructed in an
easement or on public right-of-way including alleys and shall include invisible
fences.
2.   Fences and structural walls shall not exceed four feet in height in any
front yard and not more than six feet in any side or rear yard. Fences in non-
residential districts shall not exceed 12 feet in height in any side or rear
yard.
3.   Front yards shall extend to the building line or front face of the
building for the purpose of this chapter, with fences greater than four feet
located equal to and to the rear of the front building line or building face.
4.   At street intersections, no fence or structural wall more than four feet
in height above the street level shall be located within a triangular area
composed of two of its sides 40 feet in length and measured along the right-of
way lines from the point of intersection of the above-referenced lines. No
portions of the fence or wall located within the designated 40 foot triangular
area shall be more than 10 percent solid.
5.   All fences shall have the finished side of the fence to the outside for
the purpose of an improved look to adjacent properties and roadways. A property
owner may elect to finish the interior side or both sides of the fence in
certain cases.
165.14   HOME OCCUPATIONS AND BUSINESSES.
Subject to the limitations of this section, any home occupation that is
customarily incidental to the principal use of a building as a dwelling shall
be permitted in any dwelling unit. The regulations of this section are designed
to protect and maintain the residential character of established neighborhoods
while recognizing that certain professional and limited business activities
have traditionally been carried on in the home.
This section recognizes that, when properly limited and regulated, such
activities can take place in a residential structure without changing the
character of either the neighborhood or the structure. Any question of whether
a particular use is permitted as a home occupation, as provided herein, shall
be determined by the Zoning Administrator pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
1.   Use Limitations. In addition to all of the limitations applicable to the
district in which it is located, no home occupation shall be permitted unless
it complies with the following restrictions:
   A.   Not more than one person who is not a resident on the premises shall be
employed by the home occupation.
   B.   No home occupation shall occur or be approved for placement or location
in an accessory building, including any garage, except as provided in
Subsection F below.
   C.   No more than 25 percent or 400 square feet of the finished floor area
of the dwelling unit, whichever is less, shall be devoted to the home
occupation.
   D.   No alteration of the principal residential building shall be made which
changes the character or appearance thereof as a dwelling or dwelling unit.
   E.   No stock of finished goods, materials for sale, or raw materials, or
combination thereof, shall exceed 30 cubic feet at any given time.
   F.   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the principal
dwelling unit or in a permitted building accessory unit.
   G.    The home occupation use shall not be readily apparent from any public
way.
   H.   The outside storage of any equipment, raw materials, finished goods, or
disposable or demolition products associated with the home occupation shall be
prohibited.
   I.   Not any more than one commercial vehicle used in connection with any
home occupation shall be parked on the property.
   J.   All trailers, storage units, travel wagons, and other vehicles or
devices designed for the storage of any equipment, raw materials, finished
goods, or disposable or demolition products associated with the home occupation
shall be stored in an enclosed portion of the dwelling associated with home
occupation.
   K.   No mechanical, electrical, or other equipment which produces noise,
electrical or magnetic interference, vibration, heat, glare, or other nuisance
outside the residential or accessory structure shall be used.
   L.   No home occupation shall be permitted which is noxious, offensive or
hazardous by reason of: i) product preparation or manufacture; ii) vehicular
traffic generated by the home occupation; iii) generation or emission of noise,
smoke, dust or other particulate matter; iv) generation of malodorous matter;
v) generation of heat, humidity, glare, or radiation; vi) generation of refuse
or garbage beyond the refuse or garbage normally associated with a residential
dwelling; or vii) generation of other objectionable materials or emissions.
   M.   No sign shall be used to advertise or announce a home occupation except
one unlighted sign, not over eight square foot in area shall be allowed;
provided, however, that such sign is attached flat against the dwelling and
displays only the occupant’s name and occupation. The Zoning Administrator
shall direct the removal of any sign other than that which allowed under this
section.
   N.   There shall be no off-premises signs linking the premises with the home
occupation.
   O.   Radio, television, newspaper, handbill, or similar types of advertising
linking the premises with the home occupation shall be limited as noted in the
permit approving the home occupation.
2.   Home Occupations Permitted. Customary home occupations include, but are
not limited to the following list of occupations; provided, however, that each
such home occupation shall be subject to the use limitations set forth in this
chapter.
   A.   Providing personal education instruction to not more than four students
at any given time.
   B.   Office facilities for accountants, architects, brokers, business
consultants, computer consultants, engineers, lawyers, insurance agents, and
real estate agents.
   C.   Office facilities for ministers, priests, rabbis, imams, and other
recognized religious leaders.
   D.   Office facilities for salespeople, sales representatives, and
manufacturer’s representatives when no retail or wholesale sales are made or
transacted on the premises.
   E.   Homebound employment of any person who is challenged or disabled under
the definitions contained in the Americans with Disabilities Act.
165.15   STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED.
Except as permitted in Section
165.23 of this chapter, no lot shall contain any building used in whole or in
part for residence purposes unless such lot abuts for at least 20 feet on at
least one public street, or unless it has an exclusive unobstructed private
easement of access or right-of-way of at least 20 feet wide to a street; and
there shall be not more than one single-family dwelling for such frontage or
easement, except that a common easement of access at least 50 feet wide may be
provided for two or more such single-family dwellings or for one or more two-
family or multiple dwellings.
165.16   REQUIRED YARD.
No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of the ordinance codified in
this chapter shall be reduced in dimension of area below the minimum required
by this chapter. No part of a yard or other open space, or off-street parking
or loading space provided about any building, structure, or use for the purpose
of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included as part of a
yard, open space, of off-street parking or loading space required under this
chapter for another building, structure, or use.
165.17   BUILDING ON LOTS OF RECORD.
No lot shall be sold or divided if the remaining portion of the lot or property
is less than the minimum size requirements of the district in which it is
situated, unless it becomes part of an adjacent lot which meets the lot
requirements and the remaining portion of the original lot also meets the
minimum requirements including required setbacks. An owner of two lots of
record may place a building on the center portion of both lots or on the lot
line, however, both lots become one lot from a zoning standpoint and for future
sales purposes. In addition, only one principal detached residential building
shall be located on a zoning lot or legal lot of record and shall not be
located on the same zoning lot or legal lot of record with any other principal
building or non-accessory use of the principal residence. Larger multifamily
developments comprised of multiple buildings may be located on the same zoning
lot or lot of record in accordance with the bulk regulations of the respective
zoning district.
165.18   CORNER LOTS.
For corner lots, platted or of record after the effective date of this
ordinance, the front yard regulation shall apply to each street side of the
corner lot. On corner lots platted or of record as of the effective date of
this ordinance, the side yard regulation shall apply to the longer street side
of the lot, except in the case of reverse frontage where the corner lot faces
an intersecting street. In this case, there shall be a side yard on the longer
street side of the corner lot of not less than 50 percent of the front yard
required on the lots to the rear of such corner lot, and no accessory building
on said corner lot shall project beyond the setback line of the lots in the
rear; provided further that this regulation shall not be interpreted to reduce
the buildable width of the corner lot facing an intersecting street of record
or as shown by existing contract of purchase as of the effective date of this
ordinance, to less than 28 feet nor to prohibit the erection of an accessory
building.
165.19   FRONT YARD.
In all residential districts there shall be a minimum front yard required as
stated in the bulk regulations for that particular district; provided, however,
that where lots comprising 30 percent or more of the frontage within 200 feet
of either side lot line are developed with buildings at a greater or lesser
setback, the front yard requirement shall be the average of these building
setbacks and the minimum front yard required for the undeveloped lots. In
computing the average setback, buildings located on reverse corner lots or
entirely on the rear half of lots shall not be counted. The required front yard
as computed herein need not exceed 50 feet in any case.
165.20   ZONING DISTRICTS DIVIDING PROPERTY.
Where one parcel of property is divided into two or more portions by reason of
different zoning district classifications, each of these portions shall be used
independently of the other in its respective zoning classification, and for the
purpose of applying the regulations of this chapter, each portion shall be
considered as if in separate and different ownership.
165.21   PARKING, STORAGE, AND RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
For purposes of this chapter, major recreational equipment is defined as
including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, pick-up campers or coaches
(designed to be mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent
trailers, and similar uses. For the purpose of this section a trailer is
defined as every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying person or
property for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that not part of
its weight rests upon the towing vehicle, per Section 321.1 of the Code of
Iowa. No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any lot in a
residential district except in i) garage; ii) enclosed building; iii) in the
rear yard area only, provided such major recreational equipment shall not be
parked or stored closer than 10 feet from any rear or side lot line; or iv)
behind the nearest portion of a building to the street. All above described
equipment and trailers shall be currently licensed. Provided, however, that
such equipment may be parked anywhere on a residential property for a period
not to exceed 72 hours during loading and unloading. Parking on a public street
is allowed by permit from April 15 to October 15 for loading and unloading
purposes only, and not to exceed 72 hours at such location. No such equipment
shall be used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes when parked or
stored on a residential, commercial, or industrial lot, except by permit from
the City Clerk, and no more than four times per year per address, one camper
per property, for no longer than a 72-hour period, provided the campers are
parked on private property. Extended periods of time over 72 hours may be
granted if, after Council consideration and approval, it is deemed extenuating
circumstances exist, and prior to permit application.
165.22   PROHIBITED STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
Outdoor storage of motor vehicles not currently licensed shall be prohibited in
all zoning districts, except motor vehicles held for sale by a licensed motor
vehicle dealer at his place of business in a zoning district where motor
vehicle sales are permitted
165.23   EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
The regulations specified in this chapter shall be subject to the following
exceptions, modifications, and interpretations:
1.   Use of Existing Lots of Record. In any district where dwellings are
permitted, a single-family dwelling may be located on any lot or plot of
official record as of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter irrespective of its area or width; provided, however:
   A.   The sum of the side yard widths of any such lot or plot shall not be
less than 30 percent of the width of the lot, but in no case less than 10
percent of the width of the lot for any one side yard.
   B.   The depth of the rear yard of any such lot need not exceed 20 percent
of the depth of the lot, but in no case less than 20 feet.
2.   Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit. The building height
limitations of this chapter shall be modified as follows: chimneys, cooling
towers, utility poles, elevator bulk-heads, fire towers, monuments, stage
towers or scenery lofts, water tanks, churches, ornamental towers and spires,
radio or television towers, or necessary mechanical appurtenances may be
erected to a height in accordance with existing or hereafter adopted ordinances
of the City.
3.   Water and Sewerage Requirements. In any district in which residences are
permitted and where neither public water supply nor public sanitary sewer is
available, the lot area and frontage requirements shall be as follows:
   A.   Lot Area - 20,000 square feet. Lot width at building line - 100 feet;
provided, however, that where a public water supply system is available these
requirements shall be 15,000 square feet and 100 feet respectively.
   B.   The above requirements shall not apply in subdivision developments,
providing private water supply and sewage collection and disposal systems,
which have been approved by the Iowa Department of Water, Air, and Waste
Management.
   C.   In all districts where a proposed building, structure or use will
involve the use of sewage facilities, and public sewer or water is not
available, the sewage disposal system and domestic water supply shall comply
with all of the requirements and standards of the County Board of Health.
4.   Double-Frontage Lots. Buildings on through lots extending through from
street to street shall provide the required front yard on both streets.
5.   Other Exceptions To Yard Requirements. Every part of a required yard shall
be open to the sky, unobstructed with any building or structure, except for a
permitted accessory building in a rear yard, and for the ordinary projections
of sills, belt courses, cornices, ornamental features and roof overhang
projecting not to exceed 24 inches, and except for yard recreational and
laundry drying equipment, arbors and trellises, flagpoles, yard lights and
similar decorative items.
6.   Mixed-Use Yard Requirements. In instances where buildings are erected
containing two or more uses housed vertically, the required side yards for the
first floor use shall control.
7.   Visibility At Intersections In Residential Districts. On a corner lot in
any residential district, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed
to grow in such a manner as materially to impede vision between a height of two
and one half and 10 feet above the centerline grades of the interesting streets
in the area bounded by the right-of-way lines of such corner lots and a line
joining points on said right-of-way lines 40 feet from their point of
intersection (See Section
165.13 - Fences).
165.24   PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL DISTRICTS.
1.   In all districts, except the C-1 District, in connection with every
industrial, commercial, business, trade, institutional, recreational, or
dwelling use, and similar uses, space for parking and storage of vehicles shall
be provided in accordance with the following schedule. Required off-street
parking facilities shall be primarily for the parking of private passenger
automobiles of occupants, patrons, or employees of the principal use served.
   A.    Automobile or Farm Implement Sales and Service Garages. One space for
each employee and in no case less than five spaces minimum.
   B.   Banks, Business and Professional Offices. One space for each 300 square
feet of floor area.
   C.   Bed and Breakfasts. One space for each bedroom
   D.   Bowling Alleys. Five spaces for each lane.
   E.   Churches and Schools. One parking space for every 80 square feet of
principal auditorium, including balcony, if any. Where no auditorium is
involved, one parking space for each two staff members.
   F.   Dance Halls, Assembly Halls. 200 percent of floor area used for dancing
or assembly. One space for every 150 square feet of building.
   G.   Dwellings. Two parking spaces for each family or dwelling unit.
   H.   Funeral Homes, Mortuaries. One parking space for each five seats in the
principal auditorium.
   I.   Furniture and Appliance Stores, Household Equipment or Furniture Repair
Shops. One space for each 200 square feet of sales and display floor area.
   J.   Hospitals. One space for each four beds, plus one space for each three
employees, plus one space for each two staff doctors.
   K.   Hotels, Motels, Lodging Houses. One space for each bedroom.
   L.   Manufacturing Plants. One parking space for each three employees on the
maximum working shift, but in no case less than one space for each 1,000 square
feet of gross floor area.
   M.   Nursing, Convalescent, and Retirement Homes. One space per eight beds,
plus one space per three employees, plus one space for each resident staff
member.
   N.   Restaurants, Taverns, and Night Clubs. One space for each 100 square
feet of floor area.
   O.   Retail Stores, Shops, Supermarkets, etc. Over 2,000 Square Feet Floor
Area. One space for each 200 square feet of sales and display floor area.
   P.   Retail Stores, Shops, Supermarkets, etc. Under 2,000 Square Feet Floor
Area. One space for each 200 square feet of sales and display floor area.
   Q.   Theaters, Assembly Halls With Fixed Seats. One space for each five
seats.
   R.   Wholesale Establishments or Warehouses. One space for each two
employees, but in no case less than one space for each 2,000 square feet of
gross floor area.
2.   In case of any building, structure, or premises, the use of which is not
specifically mentioned herein, the provisions for a use which is so mentioned
and to which said use is similar, shall apply.
3.   Where a parking lot does not abut on a public or private street, alley, or
easement of access, there shall be provided an access drive not less than 10
feet in width in case of a dwelling, and not less than 16 feet in width in all
other cases leading to the loading or unloading spaces and parking or storage
areas required hereunder in such manner as to secure the most appropriate
development of the property in question; provided, however; such easement of
access or access drive shall not be located in any residence district, except
where serving a permitted use in a residence district.
4.   Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private parking area,
including a commercial parking lot, shall be developed and maintained in
accordance with the following requirements:
   A.    No part of any parking space shall be closer than five feet to any
established street right-of-way line. In case the parking lot adjoins an “R”
District, it shall be set back at least 10 feet from the “R” District boundary
and shall be effectively landscaped and screen planted. All new parking spaces
must be a minimum of nine feet by 18 feet and must be a permanent, dust-free
surface such as concrete or gravel.
   B.   All required off-street parking areas and access drives, including
access to garages, storage units, and loading and unloading areas shall be
surfaced with asphaltic or Portland cement binder pavement or similar surface,
so as to provide a durable and dustless surface. They shall be graded and
drained to dispose of all surface water accumulation within the area, and shall
be arranged and marked to provide for orderly and safe loading or unloading and
parking and storage of self-propelled vehicles.
   C.   Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be
arranged to reflect the light away from adjoining premises in any “R” District.
5.   Off-street parking areas in residential districts shall be provided on the
same lot with the principal use. Off-street parking and loading areas may
occupy all or part of any required yard or open space, subject to the
provisions of this chapter; except that no required off-street parking or
loading areas shall be located in any required front yard in a residence
district. This provision shall not prohibit parking on a driveway leading to a
required off-street parking space.
165.25   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES REQUIRED.
In any district, in connection with every building or part thereof hereafter
erected having a gross floor area of 10,000 square feet or more, which is to be
occupied by manufacturing, storage, warehouse, goods display, retail store,
wholesale store, market, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or
other uses similarly requiring the receipt or distribution by vehicles of
material or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on the same lot
with such building, at least one off-street loading space plus one additional
such loading space for each 20,000 square feet or major fraction thereof of
gross floor area, so used, in excess of 10,000 square feet.
1.   Each loading space shall be not less than 12 feet in width and 40 feet in
length.
2.   Such space may occupy all or any part of any required yard or open space,
except where adjoining an “R” District, it shall be set back at least 10 feet
and be effectively landscaped and screened to visibly shield from adjoining
residential properties. Said screening shall be a minimum four feet in height
and may utilize walls, fencing, and berms in addition to natural landscape
materials such as trees and shrubs. Such screening material shall be designed
to provide 75 percent opacity one year after planting for the required height
and length of the screening buffer.
165.26   R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
The R-1 District (Single Family Dwelling District) is intended and designed to
provide for certain low-density residential areas of the City now developed
with single-family dwellings, and areas where similar residential development
seems likely to occur.
1.   Principal Permitted Uses. Only the use of structures or land listed in
this section shall be permitted in the R-1 District.
   A.   Single Family dwellings.
   B.   Churches, chapels, temples, and similar places of worship; provided
that all principal buildings be set back a minimum of 35 feet from all property
lines.
   C.   Public and parochial schools, elementary and secondary, and other
educational institutions having an established current curriculum as ordinarily
given in the Durant public schools; provided that all principal buildings be
set back a minimum of 35 feet from all property lines.
   D.   Publicly owned parks, playgrounds, golf courses, community centers, and
recreation areas.
   E.   Private non-commercial recreational areas, including country clubs,
swimming pools, tennis clubs and ball fields.
   F.   Electrical and natural gas transmission and regulating facilities,
subject to hearing and approval by the Board of Adjustment.
   G.   Agricultural uses, including nurseries, greenhouses and truck gardens;
provided that no offensive odors or dust are created and that no retail sales
shall be permitted on the premises, and provided further, that the raising and
keeping of livestock or poultry, including feed lots, shall not be permitted
within 200 feet of property platted and developed for residential use.
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.
   A.    Use of land or structures customarily incidental and subordinate to
one of the permitted principal uses, unless otherwise excluded.
   B.   Private garage or carport.
   C.   Home occupations, as permitted in and as limited by Subsection 3 below.
   D.   The taking of boarders or the leasing of rooms by a resident family,
provided the total number of boarders and roomers does not exceed three per
building.
   E.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
   F.   Temporary use of a dwelling structure within a new subdivision as a job
office and real estate office for the subject subdivision, which use shall
terminate upon completion or abandonment of the project.
   G.   One board or sign not to exceed 50 square feet in area referring to the
construction, lease, hire, or sale of a building, premises, or subdivision
lots; which sign shall refer to property on which the sign is located, and
shall be removed as soon as the premises are sold or leased or construction
completed.
   H.   Church bulletin boards.
   I.   Day nurseries and nursery schools.
3.   Special Uses. The following uses may be appropriate with the review and
approval of a special use permit issued by the Board of Adjustment per Section
165.35 of this chapter:
   A.   Bed and Breakfast
4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to the modifications contained in Sections
165.09 through
165.23 of this chapter.
   A.   Lot Area:      Single family dwelling - 7,000 square feet
   B.   Lot Width:      Single family dwelling - 60 feet
   C.   Front Yard:      25 feet
   D.   Side Yards:      16 feet (minimum on one side – 8 feet)
   E.   Churches and schools - 35 feet on each side
   F.    Rear Yard:      35 feet
   G.   Maximum Height:   Principal building - 35 feet
   H.   Accessory building - 12 feet
   I.   Maximum No.      Principal building - 3 stories
   J.   Of Stories      Accessory building - 1 story
5.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. Spaces for off-street parking and loading
shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Sections
165.24 and
165.25 of this chapter.
6.   Landscaping Requirement. See Section
165.37 of this chapter.
165.27   R-1A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
The R-1A District (Single- and Two-Family Dwelling District) is intended and
designed to provide for certain medium density residential areas now developed
with one-family and two-family dwellings, and areas where similar residential
development seems likely to occur.
1.   Principal Permitted Uses. Only the use of structures or land listed in
this section shall be permitted in the R-1A District.
   A.   Any use permitted in the R-1 District.
   B.   Two-family dwellings.
   C.   Conversions of single-family dwellings into two-family dwellings in
accordance with the lot area, frontage, height , and yard requirements of this
chapter.
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.
   A.   Accessory uses permitted in and as limited in the R-1 District.
3.   Special Uses. The following uses may be appropriate with the review and
approval of a special use permit issued by the Board of Adjustment per Section
165.35 of this chapter:
   A.   Bed and Breakfast
4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to the modifications contained in Sections
165.09 through
165.23 of this chapter.
   A.   Lot Area:      Single-family dwelling - 7,000 square feet
               Two-family dwelling – 9,000 square feet
   B.   Lot Width:      Single-family dwelling - 60 feet
               Two-family dwelling – 64 feet
   C.   Front Yard:      25 feet
   D.   Side Yards:      1 and 1.5 stories: 16 feet
               (minimum on one side – 8 feet)
               2 and 3 stories: 20 feet
               (minimum on one side – 10 feet)
               Churches and schools - 35 feet on each side
   E.   Rear Yard:      35 feet
   F.   Maximum Height:   Principal building - 35 feet
               Accessory building - 12 feet
   G.   Maximum No.      Principal building - 3 stories
      Of Stories      Accessory building - 1 story
5.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. Spaces for off-street parking and loading
shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Sections
165.24 and
165.25 of this chapter.
6.   Landscaping Requirement. See Section
165.37 of this chapter.
165.28   R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
The R-2 District (Multiple-Family Dwelling District) is intended and designed
to provide for certain high density residential area of the City now developed
with multiple-family dwellings and areas where similar residential development
seems likely to occur.
1.   Principal Permitted Uses. Only the use of structures or land listed in
this section shall be permitted in the R-2 District.
   A.   Any use permitted in R-1 and R-1A Districts.
   B.   Multiple dwellings, including row dwellings and condominium dwellings.
   C.   Boarding and rooming houses.
   D.   Institutions of religious, educational, or philanthropic dwellings.
   E.   Hospitals; nursing, convalescent and retirement homes.
   F.   Private clubs, lodges, or veterans organizations, excepting those
holding a beer permit or liquor license.
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.
   A.   Accessory uses permitted in and as limited in the R-1 and R-1A
Districts.
3.   Special Uses. The following uses may be appropriate with the review and
approval of a special use permit issued by the Board of Adjustment per Section
165.35 of this chapter.
   A.   Bed and Breakfast
4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to the modifications contained in Sections
165.09 through
165.23 of this chapter.
   A.   Lot Area:   Single family dwelling - 7,000 square feet.
            Two family dwelling - 8,000 square feet.
            Multiple-family dwelling or other permitted use - 10,000 square
feet.
   B.   Lot Area Per Dwelling Unit:
            Row Housing, Multiple Dwellings – 2,500 square feet.
   C.   Lot width:   Single-family dwelling - 60 feet
            Two-family dwelling - 60 feet
            Row housing units - 20 feet
            Multiple-family dwelling; other permitted uses - 80 feet.
   D.    Front Yard:   25 feet.
   E.   Side Yards:   1 and 1½ stories; total side yard - 16 feet
            (minimum on one side - 8 feet)
            2 and 2½ stories; total side yard - 20 feet
            (minimum on one side - 10 feet)
            3 stories or more, up to 45 feet; total side yard - 25 feet
            (minimum on one side - 12 feet)
   F.    Rear Yard:   35 feet.
   G.   Maximum Height:   Principal building - 45 feet.
               Accessory building - 12 feet
   H.   Maximum No.       Principal building - 4 stories
      of Stories:       Accessory building - 1 story
5.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. Spaces for off-street parking and loading
shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Sections
165.24 and
165.25 of this chapter.
6.   Landscaping Requirement. See Section
165.37 of this chapter.
165.29   R-3 MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT.
The R-3 District is intended and designed to provide for certain high density
residential areas of the City for the development of mobile home parks, which
by reason of their design and location will be compatible with nearby
residential areas.
1.   Principal Permitted Uses. Only the use of structures or land listed in
this section shall be permitted in the R-3 District.
   A.   Any use permitted in the R-1 District.
   B.   Mobile home parks, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and applicable State statues.
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.
   A.    Accessory uses permitted in and as limited in the R-1 District.
   B.   Accessory buildings as may be required by State statute.
   C.   One indirectly-lighted sign may be erected facing each public street on
which the mobile home park fronts, showing the name of the mobile home park and
other information pertinent thereto; provided that such sign shall not have an
area of more than 20 square feet.
3.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to the modifications contained in Sections
165.09 through
165.23 of this chapter.
   A.    For any permitted use excepting a mobile home park, the minimum
requirements shall be the same as those set out for the R-1 District.
   B.   For any mobile home park area the requirements shall be as follows:
      (1)   The minimum total mobile home park area shall be three acres;
      (2)   Each yard abutting on a public street shall be considered a front
yard and shall be a minimum of 50 feet;
      (3)   All other yards, whether side or rear, shall be a minimum of 50
feet when adjacent to any other “R” district and 30 feet when adjacent to a “C”
or “I” district;
      (4)   The minimum lot space for each mobile home shall be 4,000 square
feet and shall measure at least 50 by 80 feet;
      (5)   Mobile homes shall be located on each space so that there will be
at least a 20-foot clearance between each mobile home, a five-foot open space
between the mobile home including any permanently enclosed appendage, and any
driveway, walkway, or mobile home space boundary; and a 10-foot open space at
the rear of the mobile home.
4.   Plan Required. Each petition for a change to the R-3 zoning classification
submitted to the City Council shall be accompanied by a mobile home park plan.
Said plan shall show each mobile home space, the water, electrical and sewer
lines serving each mobile home space, the location of fire hydrants, service
buildings, driveways, walkways, recreation areas, required yards, parking
facilities, lighting and landscaping. If public water and sanitary sewerage
facilities are not available to the mobile home park site, private water and
sewerage systems shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of the
Iowa Department of Water, Air and Waste Management subject to approval of the
City Council. The plan shall be considered by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the City Council, who may approve or disapprove said plan or
require such plans thereto, as are deemed necessary to effectuate the intent
and purpose of this chapter. All changes to the R-3 classification shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Section
165.40 of this chapter.
5.   Landscaping Requirement. The mobile home park plan shall include a
landscape plan component clearly illustrating proposed landscaping throughout
the site including adequate perimeter landscaping and screening from adjacent
uses. See Section
165.37 of this chapter.
165.30   RT-1 RESIDENTIAL TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT.
The RT-1 District is intended to accommodate residential uses and certain low
intensity commercial uses, such as professional office uses, in a mutually
compatible environment. The district is designed to recognize the continued
residential use of existing structures while permitting the conversion of such
structures for limited commercial use. The district may serve as a buffer or
transitional area between residential neighborhood areas and more intensive
commercial areas.
1.   Principal Permitted Uses. Only the use of structures or land listed in
this section shall be permitted in the RT-1 District.
   A.   Residential Uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings.
      (2)   Two-family dwelling.
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings.
      (4)   Any use permitted in the R-1 District.
   B.   Commercial Uses.
      (1)   Professional office establishments such as, but not limited to,
accounting offices, dental and medical offices, engineers and architects
offices, law offices, real estate offices, and insurance offices.
      (2)   Limited commercial retail uses including antique shops, art
galleries, apparel shops, craft and hobby shops, book and stationary shops,
gift shops, and florist shops.
      (3)   Limited commercial service uses including barber and beauty shops,
music and art studios, photographer studio, tailors and dressmakers, and pet
shops.
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.
   A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to any principal
permitted use.
   B.   Accessory uses permitted in the R-1 District.
3.   Bulk Regulations.
   A.   As required in Section
165.27(4) of this chapter.
4.   Other Provisions.
   A.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided according to
the provisions of Section
165.24 of this chapter.
   B.   Minimum Open Space. The total land area devoted to open space and
landscaping shall not be less than 10 percent of the gross land area included
in the building lot. Such open space shall be maintained as grassed and
landscaped area and shall not include access drives, parking areas, structures
or buildings; except ornamental structures included as part of the landscaping
theme.
   C.   Outdoor Sales Areas. Outdoor sales areas shall be delineated and not
impact parking or drive areas.
   D.   Open Storage. Open storage shall be screened from adjoining properties
and roadways.
   E.   Signs (as permitted).
   F.   Site Plans (as required).
   G.   Existing Lots Of Record. Existing lots of record that may be small in
size and would not meet minimum lot size requirements will be recognized as
legal lots of record in the RT-1 District and permit the reasonable
construction and rebuilding of structures on such lots.
5.   Landscaping Requirements. See Section
165.37 of this chapter.
165.31   C-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
The C-1 District is intended to provide for the general retail shopping of
persons living in the City and the surrounding rural areas. The C-1 District is
designed to include the Business District area. Uses permitted are similar to
the C-2 District, however, bulk regulations are not required due to the density
of the existing development.
1.   Principal Permitted Uses. Only the use of structures of land listed in
this section shall be permitted in the C-1 District.
   A.   Retail business or service establishments such as the following:
      (1)   Antique shops.
      (2)   Apparel shops
      (3)   Art shops
      (4)   Automobile accessory shops.
      (5)   Automobile, trailer, motorcycle, boat and farm implement
establishments for display, hire, rental, and sales (including sale lots). This
paragraph shall not be construed to include automobile, tractor, or machinery
wrecking and rebuilding and used parts yards.
      (6)   Bakeries or bakery outlets, retail sales only.
      (7)   Banks, savings and loan associations and similar financial
institutions.
      (8)   Barber shops and beauty parlors.
      (9)   Bicycle shops, sales and repair.
      (10)   Billiard parlors and pool halls.
      (11)   Book Stores.
      (12)   Bowling Alleys.
      (13)   Camera stores.
      (14)   Carpenter and cabinet making shops.
      (15)   Churches
      (16)   Clothes cleaning and laundry pick-up stations.
      (17)   Confectionary stores, including ice cream or snack bars.
      (18)   Dairy stores, retail only.
      (19)   Delicatessens.
      (20)   Department stores.
      (21)   Dance halls.
      (22)   Dance studios.
      (23)   Drug stores.
      (24)   Dry goods stores.
      (25)   Florist shops.
      (26)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      (27)   Furniture stores.
      (28)   Gas stations.
      (29)   Garages for general motor vehicle repair.
      (30)   Garages for general motor vehicle body repair.
      (31)   Gift shops.
      (32)   Grocery stores, including supermarkets.
      (33)   Hardware stores.
      (34)   Hobby shops.
      (35)   Hotels and motels.
      (36)   Household appliances, sale and repair.
      (37)   Jewelry stores and watch repair shops.
      (38)   Launderettes, coin-operated dry cleaning establishments, and dry
cleaning or pressing establishments using only non-flammable solvents.
      (39)   Lawn mower repair shops.
      (40)   Locker plant for storage and retail sales only.
      (41)   Leather goods stores.
      (42)   Liquor stores.
      (43)   Music stores and music studios.
      (44)   Office buildings.
      (45)   Paint and wallpaper stores.
      (46)   Pet shops.
      (47)   Photographic studios, printing and developing establishments.
      (48)   Plumbing and heating shops.
      (49)   Post offices.
      (50)   Printing and lithographing shops.
      (51)   Public auction rooms.
      (52)   Radio and television sales and repair shops.
      (53)   Restaurants.
      (54)   Sheet metal shops.
      (55)   Shoe and hat repair shops.
      (56)   Sporting goods stores.
      (57)   Tailor and dressmaking shops.
      (58)   Taverns and nightclubs.
      (59)   Theaters.
      (60)   Toy stores.
      (61)   Upholstering shops.
      (62)   Used car sales lots.
      (63)   Variety stores.
      (64)   Veterinary clinics.
   B.   Combinations of the above uses.
   C.   Medical and dental clinics.
   D.   The office of a doctor, dentist, osteopath, chiropractor, optometrist,
or similar profession.
   E.   Business and professional offices including the following: law,
engineering, architecture, real estate, contractor, insurance, accounting and
bookkeeping and similar uses.
   F.   Single-family residential quarters which are located above the ground
floors of a building with the provision that three off street parking places be
available for each residence location. No living quarters shall be permitted on
the ground floor of a building located in a C-1 District.
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.
   A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to any principal
permitted use.
   B.   Combinations of the above uses.
   C.   Medical and dental clinics.
   D.   The office of a doctor, dentist, osteopath, chiropractor, optometrist
or similar profession.
   E.   Business and professional offices including the following: law,
engineering, architecture, real estate, contractor, insurance, accounting and
bookkeeping, and similar uses.
   F.   Single-family residential quarters which are located above the ground
floors of a building with the provision that three off street parking places be
available for each residence location. No living quarters shall be permitted on
the ground floor of a building located in a C-1 District.
3.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to the modifications contained in Section
165.23.
   A.    Lot Area:   No minimum requirement.
   B.   Lot Width:   No minimum requirement.
   C.   Front Yard:   No minimum requirement.
   D.   Side Yards:   No minimum requirement except when adjoining any “R”
district, in which case 10 feet.
   E.   Rear Yard:   None required, except when adjoining any “R”
            district, in which case    25 feet.
   F.   Max Height:   45 feet.
   G.   Max No. of Stories   4 stories.
4.   Landscaping Requirements. See Section
165.37 of this Chapter.
5.   Sign Requirements. The downtown or Central Business District is intended
to present a quaint, attractive, and pedestrian friendly character and therefor
signage is controlled to help to achieve this design theme. Creativity and
uniformity of signage is encouraged in the downtown area to create a unique
image and visual identity for visitors and citizens alike.
   A.   No billboards allowed.
   B.   Exterior signs located on the street frontages of building shall refer
only to a use or uses located within such building, and attached or integral
thereto , provided that:
      (1)   Such signs shall not have an aggregate surface area in excess of 20
percent of the total surface area of the building elevation to which they are
attached.;
      (2)   Signs which project out from the building more than 18 inches must
be at least 12 feet above the grade and may project a maximum of six feet;
      (3)   No sign shall project more than four feet above the roof line or
parapet where one exists.
   C.   One free standing or post sign referring only to a uses or uses,
conducted on the premises may be erected in any yard abutting a public street,
provided however:
      (1)   That such sign shall not have a surface area in excess of 100
square feet on any one side and not more than two sides of said sign shall be
used for advertising purposes;
      (2)   The bottom of the surface area of such sign shall not be less than
12 feet above the ground surface upon which it is erected, unless said sign is
set back at least 20 feet from the street right-of–way line. The Zoning
Administrator may permit the location of a ground sign, in lieu of a post sign,
or a post sign less than 12 feet above the ground surface within 20 feet of the
street right-of-way line; provided that the size and location of said sign will
not obstruct or impair the visibility of pedestrians or motorists. No part of a
post sign shall be located on or project over the right-of-way line of any
street.
      (3)   A directory sign may be substituted in place of a ground sign or
post sign, subject to the requirements set forth in this chapter.
165.32   C-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
The C-2 District (General Business District) is intended to provide for general
commercial areas outside of the Business District. These districts include much
of the commercial property existing along the major streets of the City. The
uses permitted are intended to accommodate both the local retail consumer and
the automobile traveling public.
1.   Principal Permitted Uses. Only the use of structures or land listed in
this section shall be permitted in the C-2 District.
   A.   Any use permitted and as limited in the C-1 District.
   B.   Retail, service, or recreational uses, such as the following:
      (1)   Animal hospitals, veterinary clinics or kennels; provided no
exercising runway shall be at least 200 feet from any “R” District boundary.
      (2)   Commercial swimming pools, skating rinks, golf driving ranges,
miniature golf courses and similar recreational uses and facilities.
      (3)   Car wash.
      (4)   Drive-in restaurants.
      (5)   Drive-in theaters.
      (6)   Lumber yard.
      (7)   Monument sales yards.
      (8)   Rental storage units as special use only and prohibited on Main
Street.
   C.   Combinations of the above services.
   D.   Billboards and outdoor advertising signs, subject to the following
provisions:
      (1)   All yard and height requirements for a permitted principal
structure shall be complied with; provided however, that when a billboard is
erected between two buildings that are within 100 feet of the structure, no
part of said billboard shall be located closer to any street right–of-way line
than a line drawn from the nearest front corner of the two buildings.
      (2)   The surface area on any one side shall not exceed 300 square feet
in area. Double faced signs shall be permitted. If a single faced sign is
erected the back shall be suitably painted or otherwise covered to present a
neat and clean appearance.
      (3)   The ground area around the billboard structure shall be kept clean
and all scrub brush and tall grass shall be cleared away to a distance of at
least 10 feet to the rear and sides of the structure and to the front property
line, and if on a corner lot to both property lines.
      (4)   Billboards attached to a building shall not project above the roof
line of the building or be located on the roof of a building.
      (5)   Billboards located on the same street, facing the same traffic flow
shall not be located closer together than 600 feet. Each side of a double faced
sign shall be considered as facing traffic flowing in the opposite direction.
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.
   A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to any principal
permitted use.
   B.   Storage of merchandise incidental to the principal use.
   C.   Exterior signs located on the street frontages of principal building
referring only to a use or uses located within such building, and attached or
integral thereto, provided that:
      (1)   Such signs shall not have an aggregate surface area in excess of 20
percent of the total surface area of the building elevation to which they are
attached;
      (2)   Signs which project out from the building more than 18 inches must
be at least 12 feet above the grade and may project a maximum of six feet;
      (3)   No sign shall project more than four feet above the roof line or
parapet where one exists.
   D.    One free-standing or post sign referring only to a use or uses,
conducted on the premises may be erected in any yard abutting a public street,
provided however:
      (1)   That such sign shall not have a surface area in excess of 200
square feet on any one side and not more than two sides of said sign shall be
used for advertising purposes;
      (2)   The bottom of the surface area of such sign shall not be less than
12 feet above the ground surface upon which it is erected, unless said sign is
set back at least 20 feet from the street right-of–way line. The Zoning
Administrator may permit the location of a ground sign, in lieu of a post sign,
or a post sign less than 12 feet above the ground surface within 20 feet of the
street right-of-way line; provided that the size and location of said sign will
not obstruct or impair the visibility of pedestrians or motorists. No part of a
post sign shall be located on or project over the right-of-way line of any
street.
      (3)   A directory sign may be substituted in place of a ground sign or
post sign, subject to the requirements set for the in (d)(1) and (d)(2) above.
3.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to the modifications contained in Sections
165.09-
165.23.
   A.   Lot Area:      No Minimum requirement.
   B.   Lot Width:      No Minimum requirement.
   C.   Front Yard:      25 feet.
   D.   Side Yards:      None required, except when adjoining any “R” District
or street right-of-way line, in which case 25 feet.
   E.   Rear Yard:      25 feet; provided, however, that for every foot the
front yard is increased over 25 feet, the rear yard may be decreased in direct
proportion thereto, but in no case shall the year yard be less than 10 feet.
Where a railroad right-of-way is immediately adjacent to the rear of the lot,
the rear yard requirement need not apply.
   F.   Max Height:      45 feet.
   G.   Max No. of Stories:   4 stories.
4.   Minimum Open Space. The total land area devoted to open space and
landscaping shall not be less than 10 percent of the gross land area included
in the building lot. Such open space shall be maintained as grassed and
landscaped area and shall not include access drives, parking areas, structures
or buildings; except ornamental structures included as part of the landscaping
theme.
5.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. Spaces for off-street parking and loading
shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Sections
165.24 and
165.25 of this chapter.
6.   Site Plans. Site plans shall be required in accordance with the provisions
of Section
165.36 of this chapter for all uses permitted in this district.
7.   Landscape Requirements. See Section
165.37 of this chapter.
165.33   I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
The I-1 District (Light Industrial District) is intended and designed to
provide areas of the City suitable for activities and uses of a light
industrial nature. It is not intended that any new residential development be
permitted in the I-1 District.
1.   Principal Permitted Uses. Only the use of structures or land listed in
this section and uses of a like or similar nature shall be permitted in the I-
1 District.
   A.   Any use permitted in the C-2 District.
   B.   Bag, carpet and rug cleaning, provided necessary equipment is installed
and operated for the effective precipitation or recovery of dust.
   C.   Bakeries.
   D.   Welding or other metal working shops.
   E.   Carting, express, hauling or storage yards; contractor’s equipment and
materials storage yards.
   F.   Concrete mixing, concrete products manufacture (wholesale), ice
manufacturing and cold storage plant.
   G.   Creamery, bottling works, ice cream manufacturing (wholesale), ice
manufacturing and cold storage plant.
   H.   Enameling, lacquering or japanning.
   I.   Laboratories; research, experimental and testing.
   J.   Lumber yards and building material sales yards.
   K.   Machine shops.
   L.   Manufacture of musical instruments and novelties.
   M.   Manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, instruments and
devices.
   N.   Manufacture of pottery or other similar ceramic products, using only
previously pulverized clay and kilns fired only by electricity or gas.
   O.   Manufacture and repair of electric signs, advertising structures, sheet
metal products, including heating and ventilating equipment.
   P.   Milk distribution station.
   Q.   Manufacture of wood products not involving chemical treatment.
   R.   The manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and food products except fish and meat products,
cereals, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, stock feed, flour and the rendering or
refining of fats and oils.
   S.   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles or
merchandise from previously prepared materials such as bone, cloth, cork,
fiber, leather, paper, plastics, metals or stones, tobacco, wax, yarns and
wood.
   T.   Storage and sale of livestock feed, providing dust is effectively
controlled.
   U.   Flammable liquids, underground storage only, not to exceed 40,000
gallons provided it is located at least 200 feet from any “R” District.
   V.   Wholesale storage and warehouse establishments including rental storage
units.
2.   Permitted Accessory Uses.
   A.   Signs permitted in and as limited by the C-2 District regulations.
   B.   Accessory uses customarily incidental to a permitted principal use.
3.   Required Conditions. No use shall be permitted to be established or
maintained which by reason of its nature or manner of operation is or may
become hazardous, noxious, or offensive owing to the emission of odor, dust,
smoke, cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibrations, refuse matter or water-carried
waste.
   A.   The best practical means known for the disposal of refuse matter or
water carried waste, the abatement of obnoxious or offensive odor, dust, smoke,
gas, noise, or similar nuisance, shall be employed.
   B.   All principal or accessory structures housing a use permitted only in
the I-2 District shall be located at least 200 feet from any “R” District.
   C.   All signs shall meet the requirements of the C-2 District regulations.
   D.   All exterior storage must be completely obscured and shall be behind a
six foot wood or other approved fence in rear or side yard. No exterior storage
allowed in front yard.
4.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to the modifications contained in Sections
165.09-
165.23.
   A.   Front Yard:   25 feet.
   B.   Side Yards:   None required, except when adjacent to any “R” District,
or street right-of-way line; in which case 25 feet.
   C.   Rear Yard:   25 feet, provided, however, that for every foot the front
yard is increased over 25, the rear yard may be decreased in direct proportion
thereto, but in no case shall the rear yard be less than 10 feet. Where a
railroad right-of-way is immediately adjacent to the rear of the lot, the rear
yard requirement need not apply.
   D.   Max. Height:    50 feet.
   E.   Maximum No. of stories:   No limitation.
3.   Minimum Open Space. The total land area devoted to open space and
landscaping shall not be less than 10 percent of the gross land area included
in the building lot. Such open space shall be maintained as grassed and
landscaped area and shall not include access drives, parking areas, structures
or buildings; except ornamental structures included as part of the landscaping
theme.
4.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. Spaces for off-street parking and loading
shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Sections
165.24 and
165.25 of this chapter.
5.   Site Plans. Site Plans shall be required in accordance with the provisions
of Section
165.36 of this chapter for all uses permitted in this district.
6.   Landscape Requirements. See Section
165.37 of this chapter.
165.34   I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
The I-2 District (Heavy Industrial District) is intended and designed to
provide areas of the City for activities and uses of a heavy industrial
character. Since this is the least restrictive of any district, almost any use
is permissible, with the exception of a small number of uses which by reason of
certain undesirable characteristics require approval of a special use permit by
the Board of Adjustment. In addition, no residential uses are permitted.
1.   Principal Permitted Uses. All uses permitted in the I-1 District. A
building or premises may be used for any purpose whatsoever provided the
regulations listed in Subparagraphs A, B, and C below are met:
   A.   No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued for any use in conflict
with any ordinance of the City or law of the State of Iowa regulating
nuisances.
   B.   No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued for any dwelling, school,
hospital, clinic, or other institution for human care, except where incidental
to a permitted principal use.
   C.   The uses hereinafter listed may be permitted subject to approval of a
special use permit by the Board of Adjustment after public hearing. In its
determination upon the particular uses at the location requested, the Board
shall consider all of the following provisions:
      (1)   That the proposed location, design, construction and operation of
the particular use adequately safeguards the health, safety and general welfare
of persons residing or working in adjoining or surrounding property. To this
end the Board may require that appropriate landscaping, walls, fences or other
artificial screens be provided as buffers to minimize the effects of these uses
on adjoining or surrounding property;
      (2)   That such use shall not impair an adequate supply of light and air
to surrounding property;
      (3)   That such use shall not unduly increase congestion in the streets,
or public danger of fire and safety;
      (4)   That such use shall not diminish or impair established property
values in adjoining or surrounding property; and
      (5)   That such use shall be in accord with the intent, purpose and
spirit of this chapter and the Comprehensive Plan of the City.
   D.   The uses subject to the above provisions are as follows:
      (1)   Packing houses, slaughter houses or stock yards.
      (2)   Acid manufacture or wholesale storage of acids.
      (3)   Anhydrous ammonia storage or pumping facilities.
      (4)   Automobile, tractor or machinery wrecking and used parts yards;
provided that any wrecking operation is carried on within a building completely
enclosed with walls and roof and the yard completely enclosed with a wall or
fence, reasonably maintained, at least six feet high completely obscuring the
activity. There shall be only one opening in the wall or fence facing any
public street for each 200 feet of length.
      (5)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacture.
      (6)   Distillation of bones.
      (7)   Explosive manufacture or storage.
      (8)   Fat rendering
      (9)   Fertilizer manufacture.
      (10)   Garbage, offal, or dead animal reduction.
      (11)   Gas manufacture and cylinder recharging.
      (12)   Glue, size, or gelatin manufacture.
      (13)   Junk, iron, or rags, storage or baling, and waste paper yards,
where the premises upon which such activities are conducted are wholly enclosed
within a building, wall or fence not less than six feet in height, completely
obscuring the activity.
      (14)   Petroleum or its products refining or wholesale storage of, and
asphalt plants.
      (15)   Rubber goods manufacture.
      (16)   Sand or gravel pits.
      (17)   Smelting of tin, copper, zinc, or iron ores.
      (18)   Transmitting stations
      (19)   Wholesale storage of gasoline and other flammable liquids.
2.   Required Conditions.
   A.   The best practical means known for the disposal of refuse matter or
water carried waste, the abatement of obnoxious or offensive odor, dust, smoke,
gas, noise, or similar nuisance, shall be employed.
   B.   All principal or accessory structures housing a use permitted only in
the I-2 District shall be located at least 200 feet from any “R” District.
   C.   All signs shall meet the requirements of the C-2 District regulations.
   D.   All exterior storage must be completely obscured and shall be behind a
six foot wood or other approved fence in rear or side yard. No exterior storage
allowed in front yard.
3.   Bulk Regulations. The following minimum requirements shall be observed
subject to the modifications contained in Section
165.23.
   A.    Front Yard:      40 feet.
   B.   Side Yards:      None required except when adjacent to any street
right-of-way line, in which case 25 feet.
   C.   Rear Yard:      40 feet; except that where a railroad right-of-way lies
immediately adjacent to the rear of the lot, the rear yard requirement need not
apply.
   D.   Maximum Height:   50 feet.
   E.   Maximum No. of Stories:   No limitations.
4.   Minimum Open Space. The total land area devoted to open space and
landscaping shall not be less than 10 percent of the gross land area included
in the building lot. Such open space shall be maintained as grassed and
landscaped area and shall not include access drives, parking areas, structures
or buildings; except ornamental structures included as part of the landscaping
theme.
5.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. Spaces for off-street parking and loading
shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Sections
165.24 and
165.25 of this chapter.
6.   Site Plans. Site Plans shall be required in accordance with the provisions
of Section
165.36 of this chapter for all uses permitted in this district.
7.   Landscape Requirements. See Section
165.37 of this chapter.
165.35   SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
Certain uses are only allowed by the issuance of a special use permit
(conditional use permit). Such uses may or may not be appropriate at a specific
location due to their characteristics and unusual nature which may give rise to
unique problems with respect to their impact upon neighboring property or
public facilities. A careful and thorough review is required to ensure that
such uses can be established in a manner consistent and compatible with
adjacent uses in the area. Approvals of special use permits typically include
conditions within the permit to ensure both immediate and long term
compatibility with the neighboring uses.
1.   The Board of Adjustment may by special use permit after public hearing,
authorize the location of any of the following buildings or uses in any
district from which they are prohibited by this chapter.
   A.   Any public building erected and used by any department of the City,
township, County, State or federal government.
   B.   Airport or landing field.
   C.   Community building.
   D.   Hospitals, non-profit fraternal institutions, provided they are used
solely for fraternal purposes, and institutions of an educational, religious,
or philanthropic character.
   E.   Public or private cemetery.
   F.   Bed and Breakfast (R-1, R-1A, and R-2, Districts only - sign per Home
Occupation).
   G.   Rental Storage Units in C-2 District, except prohibited on Main Street.
   H.   Other uses not listed as permitted uses or a use by right in a
particular zoning district but considered to be reasonable and appropriate at a
particular location by the City Council may be directed to the Board of
Adjustment for consideration.
2.   Before issuance of any special use permit for any of the above buildings
or uses, the Board shall direct such request to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for review and recommendation. The Board shall then review the
conformity of the proposal with the standards of the Comprehensive Plan, and
with recognized principles of engineering design, land use planning and
landscape architecture. The Board may approve or disapprove the special use
permit as submitted or, before approval, may require that the applicant modify,
alter, adjust, or amend the proposal as the Board deems necessary to the end
that it preserve the intent and purpose of this chapter to promote public
health, safety and the general welfare.
3.   Applications for a special use permit under the terms of this section
shall be accompanied by evidence concerning the feasibility of the proposed
request and its effect on surrounding property and shall include a site plan
defining the areas to be developed for buildings, the area to be developed for
parking, the locations of sidewalks and driveway and the points of ingress and
egress, including access streets where required, the location and height of the
walls, the location and type of landscaping and the location, size and number
of signs. In the event a special permit is granted under the terms of this
section, any change thereafter in the approved use or site plan shall be
resubmitted and considered in the same manner as the original proposal.
165.36   SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
A site plan is a graphic display which visually shows what is proposed to be
developed on a particular piece of property. It is intended to assist a
developer or property owner by illustrating and clarifying to City staff, City
Council, the Planning and Zoning Commission, Zoning Board of Adjustment, and
other interested parties what is being proposed on a property. The site plan is
to assure that the design and location of commercial and industrial areas,
including special uses as outlined herein, will be in conformance with the
zoning standards of this ordinance, will be well designed, and will be
respecting of neighboring property interest. The site plan shall be submitted
for approval by the City Council after review and recommendation by the
Planning and Zoning Commission. Special uses reviewed by the Board of
Adjustment will include the submittal and review of a site plan as well to
ensure compatibility with adjoining uses which may include residential as well
as neighboring commercial, industrial, or public use.
1.   Procedure.
   A.   Whenever any person, firm, corporation or other group wishes to develop
any tract, lot or parcel of land within the City, located in the RT-1, C-1, C-
2, I-1, or I-2 zoning districts, he shall cause to be prepared a site plan of
such development and shall submit 10 copies of said site plan to the City
Clerk. The provisions of this section shall also be applicable to the
redevelopment, enlargement or extension of any commercial or industrial uses
and structures existing at the time of adoption of the ordinance codified in
this chapter, including special uses as allowed. The site plan shall contain
such information and data as outlined herein.
   B.   The City Clerk shall refer a copy of the site plan to the City Planner,
City Engineer, or such other person as shall be designated from time to time by
the City Council, who shall review said site plan as to its compliance with the
ordinances of the City, its effect upon public utilities and the public street
system, and submit his/her findings as soon as possible to the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   C.   The City Clerk shall also forward a copy of the site plan to each
member of the Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall, after receiving the engineer’s report, review the site plan
for conformity with the regulations and standards contained herein, and may
confer with the developer on changes deemed advisable in such site plan.
   D.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall forward its recommendation
either for approval or disapproval of the site plan to the City Council within
45 days of the date of the submission of the said site plan. If the Commission
does not act within 45 days, the site plan shall be deemed to be approved by
the Commission unless the developer agrees to an extension of time.
   E.   The Commission may, in its discretion, hold a public hearing on the
site plan of the proposed development and prescribe the notice thereof and to
whom such notice shall be given.
   F.   The City Council shall, upon receipt of the recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, either approve or disapprove the site plan of
the proposed development.
   G.   No building permit or certificate of occupancy for any structure within
any district within which a site plan is required shall be issued until the
site plan has been approved as provided herein.
   H.   Upon final action by the Planning & Zoning Commission on any site plan,
a copy of said site plan with the action of the Planning & Zoning Commission
noted thereon and signed by the chairperson of the Commission shall be filed
with the City Clerk.
   I.   If the Zoning Administrator finds that any construction or proposed
construction or occupancy of a development on a tract of land for which a site
plan has been approved will not substantially comply with the site plan as
approved will not substantially comply with the site plan as approved or if he
finds that the construction and development of the tract is not being carried
out in accordance with the development schedule filed with the site plan, he
shall suspend all building permits for the development and order all
construction stopped until such time as the owner of the project, or his
successors in interest, shall have provided him with proof satisfactory to him
that the site plan will be complied with. The Zoning Administrator shall not
issue a certificate of occupancy for any structure within the development while
the building permit for the development has been suspended pursuant to this
paragraph. Any person aggrieved by any decision or action of the Zoning
Administrator under this paragraph may appeal such action or decision to the
Board of Adjustment.
   J.   If the owner or developer of a tract of land for which a site plan has
been approved determines that an extension of time is necessary or that a
modification of the site plan would provide for a more appropriate or more
practicable development of the site, he may apply for an amendment of the site
plan. The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant an extension of time or a
modification of a previously approved site plan if it determines that such
modification of the site plan would provide for a more appropriate development
of the site.
2.   Site Plan Review. In reviewing a proposed site plan, the City Council and
the Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the location of the buildings
on the site with respect to vehicular and pedestrian traffic to and from the
buildings, traffic between the site and abutting streets, suitable layout and
adequate provisions for off-street parking and loading, with due consideration
given to the provision of traffic islands, pedestrian ways and landscaping
within the parking area, provision for necessary screening between adjacent
properties and the site, location and display of traffic signs to promote
traffic patterns, location and display of business signs so as not to distract
or confuse motorists, and location and display of outdoor advertising so as to
provide adequate visibility within the site during hours of night operation but
not to have adverse effects on surrounding properties.
3.   Site Plan Requirements. All site plans shall be drawn at a scale not less
than one inch equals 50 feet. Ten copies of the site plan shall be submitted to
the City Clerk. The purpose of the site plan is to show all information needed
to enable the engineer, Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council to
determine if the proposed development meets the requirements of this chapter.
4.   Information Required. The site plan required shall include the following
information concerning the proposed development:
   A.    Names of all persons having an interest in the property, legal
description of property, point of compass, scale and date.
   B.   Applicant’s name, planned land use and present zoning.
   C.   If the applicant is other than the legal owner, the applicant’s
interest shall be stated.
   D.   Name and address of person who prepared the site plan.
5.   Required Illustrations. The site plan shall clearly set forth the
following information concerning the proposed development:
   A.    Property boundary lines, dimensions and total area of the proposed
development.
   B.   Contour lines of the proposed development at intervals of not more than
five feet. If substantial topographic change is proposed, the existing
topography of the development and of the surrounding area shall be illustrated
on a separate map, and the proposed finished topography shown on the site plan.
   C.   The availability, location, size and capacity of existing utilities,
and of proposed utilities.
   D.   The proposed location, size, height, shape, use and architectural theme
of all buildings or structures in the proposed development.
   E.   The total square footage of building floor area, both individually and
collectively in the proposed development.
   F.   Existing buildings, rights-of-way, street improvements, railroads,
easements, drainage courses and streams.
   G.   Location, number, dimensions and design of off-street parking in the
proposed development, including:
      (1)   Driveways;
      (2)   Striping and safety curbs;
      (3)   Loading facilities;
      (4)   Type and location of lighting; and
      (5)   Surface treatment.
   H.   Open spaces, yards, recreational areas, walkways, driveways, outside
lighting, walls, fences, monuments, statues, signs and other man-made features
to be used in the landscape of the proposed development.
   I.   Facilities for the collection and disposal of garbage and trash.
   J.   Location and type of all plants, grass and trees to be used in the
landscape of the proposed development. Landscaping to be used for screening
purposes shall be illustrated in elevation as well as plan, with the
approximate size and name of plants, shrubs or trees to be planted clearly
indicated.
   K.   Location of entrances and exits from the proposed development onto
public streets, and interior drives and proposed sidewalks in the development.
   L.   Proposed drainage facilities and provisions for flood control, if
applicable.
   M.   The location, height and area of all signs (directional signs,
identification signs, or temporary signs) in the proposed development.
6.   Expiration of Approval. All site plan approvals shall expire and terminate
180 days after the date of Council approval unless a building permit has been
issued for the construction provided for in the site plan. The City Council
may, upon written request by the developer, extend the time for the issuance of
a building permit for 60 days. In the event the building permit for the
construction provided for in a site plan expires or is cancelled, then such
site plan approval shall thereupon terminate
165.37   LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL DISTRICTS.
It is the intent of the landscaping requirement to provide trees, shrubs, and
other natural vegetation on newly developed and redeveloped properties within
the City. Landscaping with natural vegetation has been shown to reduce
stormwater runoff and improve water quality, improve air quality, prevent soil
erosion, and significantly enhance the visual or aesthetic appearance of a
City. Well-landscaped properties improve not only the subject property value
but enhance the attractiveness of an area from a quality of life and economic
development viewpoint. In addition, the landscape requirements of the zoning
regulations are utilized to effectively screen and buffer uses of different
intensities to minimize one impact on another and improve the overall
compatibility between uses. For example, a commercial car wash located adjacent
to a professional office or residential use can incorporate any combination of
fencing, screen wall, berm, and landscaping within a 10-foot buffer area to
effectively mitigate the negative or disruptive characteristics commonly
associated with such use. A row of six-foot-tall evergreens planted within a
10-foot wide buffer spaced at no more than six feet on center can be used to
effectively buffer and screen adjacent uses as well. Natural materials such as
bark mulch and woodchips within buffer areas are recommended versus impervious
materials such as rock and stone. Existing trees and vegetation may be used
where possible to meet the landscaping requirements of this chapter.
Maintaining site landscaping and the replacement of dead or dying vegetation is
required by the property owner as the intent of this chapter is to provide
effective landscaping on an ongoing basis.
1.   Landscape Plan or Sketch Plan Required. A landscape plan is required for
City review and approval prior to the issuance of a building permit for the
development of new properties or the redevelopment of existing properties as
required herein. The landscape plan shall clearly illustrate compliance with
the requirements as stated and include the size, type, height, and location of
all vegetative materials proposed including ground cover material.
2.   Landscape Screening and Buffering Between Uses. The following screening
and buffering methods shall be used to mitigate the potential negative
characteristics of more intensive uses on less intensive uses. During site plan
review, the developer and/or property owner will work with staff to determine
the appropriate and effective screening and buffering method most suited for
the specific characteristics of the development or redevelopment. A new
residential subdivision adjoining a higher intensive zoning district or use,
shall provide a screen or buffer and illustrate such screening and buffering on
the preliminary plat. All developments other than one and two-family
residential shall provide a landscape plan as part of the site plan review
process illustrating general buffering and screening to meet the intent of this
chapter. The following options shall be considered sufficient to meet the
intent of this chapter.
   A.   Option 1. A landscape screening area having a minimum width of 10 feet
shall be provided by the multi-family residential, commercial, industrial,
public, or civic project on the shared border. The buffer area shall consist of
a row of six-foot-tall evergreen trees planted parallel to the property line
and spaced at no more than six feet on center. Impervious materials are not
permitted in the landscape screening area.
   B.   Option 2. An opaque wall, berm, or fence shall be provided on the
shared border with a minimum height of six feet.
   C.   Option 3. A project shall retain an existing landscape screening area
along the shared border having a minimum width of 10 feet. At a minimum, the
landscape screening area shall consist of a row of six-foot-tall evergreen
trees located parallel to the property line and spaced a not more than six feet
on center. If the existing trees are spaced further apart than six feet on
center, then additional six-foot-tall evergreen trees shall be planted within
the landscape screening area to achieve the required spacing. Impervious
materials at ground level are not permitted in the landscape screening areas.
165.38   CELLPHONE TOWERS.
The purpose of this section is to allow and regulate the installation of
communication transmission facilities within the City limits. In general, said
communication transmission facilities shall include cell telephone towers and
similar installations. Prior to taking final action on this section, the City
Council has followed the procedure required in this chapter and the
requirements of Section 414.4 of the Code of Iowa. Following all said
consideration, it is the finding of the City Council that this section is in
the best interest of the City and should be enacted. Communications
Transmission Facilities (CTFs) are permitted in any area of the City, but only
upon approval by the City Council. Preference for locating CTFs shall be in
open areas located in industrial or commercial areas or in City-owned parks and
open areas, provided the following conditions are met:
1.   The antenna is mounted on an existing communications tower, on the roof of
a principal building that contains a nonresidential use or on the roof of a
building that is accessory to a nonresidential use, or on another tall
structure that is permitted in the district. Examples include church and school
buildings, water towers and clock towers. A maximum of two antennas is
permitted per building or structure.
2.   The height of the antenna shall not exceed the height of the existing
structure or building to which it is attached by more than 20 feet. If it
exceeds this limit, a special exception is required to ensure that the antenna
and any associated structure is designed to blend into its surroundings, or be
camouflaged so as not to be obtrusive or detract from neighboring properties.
No CTF shall be constructed over 200 feet in height.
3.   No CTF shall be placed in any residential district except with City
Council approval following notice and public hearing. See Subsection 163.38(4)
(b). Strobe lighting is prohibited in all districts. Therefore, any antenna
that requires such illumination is prohibited.
4.   Any equipment associated with an antenna must be located within the
exterior walls of the building to which the antenna is attached. No separate
equipment shed is permitted, except if the antenna is attached to a tall
structure that is not a building. In such a case, a separate equipment shed is
only allowed by special exception if it can be demonstrated that the shed can
be adequately screened or designed in a manner that blends in with the
residential character or future residential character of the surrounding area.
Communications towers areas are allowed by special exception in residential
districts and must comply with the following approval criteria:
   A.   The proposed tower serves an area that cannot be served by an existing
tower or industrial property or by locating antennas on existing structures in
the area. The applicant must document attempts to utilize existing structures,
towers, and commercial and industrial properties within one-half mile of the
proposed tower. Such documentation must include maps illustrating the location
of existing towers and potential alternative sites for antenna and towers that
have been explored by applicant and the applicant must state the reasons that
these locations were not feasible.
   B.    The proposed tower will be designed and constructed in a manner that
will camouflage the structure and reduce its visual impact on the surrounding
area. Examples of camouflage design include monopoles, which do not have guy
wires or support trusses and that are painted to blend in with the sky or
surroundings, towers camouflaged as flagpoles, monuments, steeples, or the
integration of roof top towers onto existing buildings, water towers, etc.
Rooftop towers must use materials similar to or that blend in with the
structure to which it is attached. Other camouflaged tower structures must be
of similar height and appearance as other similar structures allowed in the
district, e.g., towers camouflaged as light poles or utility poles must be of
similar height and appearance as other such poles. The applicant must include
an illustration of how the tower would appear in the proposed location.
   C.   The proposed tower will be not taller than is necessary to provide the
service intended. Evidence presented should include coverage maps illustrating
current gaps in coverage and changes to coverage with the proposed tower.
Communications towers are exempt from the maximum height standards of the
Zoning Regulations (this chapter), but under no circumstance may the tower be
taller than 200 feet from grade. If a communications tower is camouflaged to
appear similar to another common structure allowed in the District, it must
comply with the same height standards that would apply to the type of structure
that it emulates. For example, if the tower is camouflaged as a light pole,
flagpole, or utility pole it must not exceed the height limitation for such
structures as specified in the district. If no height standard exists in the
code for such a structure, it must be designed to be of similar height and
appearance to other similar or typical structures. If the tower is camouflaged
as a chimney, steeple, or other similar rooftop structure, the Board may exempt
it from the district height standards if it is designed as if it were an
integral part of the building and is not out of scale or proportion to other
similar rooftop structures.
   D.   The proposed tower will be set back from the property line at least 80
feet in distance, but such set back may be increased by the City Council.
   E.   Any equipment associated with the tower facility will be enclosed in an
equipment shed, cabinet, or building, which must be adequately screened from
view of the public right-of-way and adjacent properties and designed in a
manner that will be compatible and blend in with the future residential
development.
   F.   The proposed tower will not utilize a backup generator as a principal
power source. Backup generators may only be used in the event of a power
outage. The City Council or the Board of Adjustment may require that the
electric distribution line necessary to furnish electric service to the tower
be made underground from existing systems, however, this requirement would not
apply to electrical transformers, meter pedestals, switchgear and other
appurtenances impractical to bury.
   G.   The proposed tower must be designed and constructed to accommodate at
least one additional user, unless in doing so the tower will exceed the 200-
foot height limitation or if the City Council or Board of Adjustment determines
that allowing the additional height needed to accommodate another user will
detract from the area to the extent that it will prevent future developments
envisioned in the comprehensive plan. The applicant shall provide a
certification by a professional engineer licensed in this State that the
proposed tower will be designed to permit a second antenna system of comparable
size to be added to the tower above or immediately below the original antenna
system.
   H.   If use of the tower is discontinued, the tower and any associated
equipment must be removed by the owner of the tower, the operator, or the owner
of the property within one year of discontinuance of use and the land graded
and replanted to prevent erosion. The applicant shall present a signed lease
agreement, a recorded declaration of covenants, or other satisfactory evidence
acknowledging this obligation.
165.39   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
1.   Zoning Administrator. There is hereby created the position of Zoning
Administrator who shall be appointed by the City Council. The Zoning
Administrator shall administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter and
shall have the following powers and duties, in connection therewith:
   A.   The Administrator shall issue all permits and certificates required by
this chapter.
   B.   If the Administrator shall find that any of the provisions of this
chapter are being violated, he shall notify in writing the person responsible
for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the
action necessary to correct it. He shall order discontinuance of illegal use of
land, buildings, or structures; removal of illegal buildings, or structures or
of additions, alterations, or structural changes thereto; discontinuance of any
illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this
chapter to insure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
1.   The Council, may, by resolution, passed by a majority vote of the entire
Council, delegate the powers and duties of the office of Zoning Administrator
to any other officer or employee of the City of may combine the powers and
duties of this office with any other office or position.
2.   Certificate of Occupancy. No land shall be occupied or used, and no
building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be occupied or used in
whole or in part for any purpose whatsoever, until a certificate is issued by
the Zoning Administrator, stating that the building and use comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   A.   No change of use shall be made in any building or part thereof, now or
hereafter erected or structurally altered, without a permit being issued
therefore by the Zoning Administrator. No permit shall be issued to make a
change unless the changes are in conformity with provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Nothing in this part shall prevent the continuance of a nonconforming
use as hereinbefore authorized, unless discontinuance is necessary for the
safety of life or property.
   C.   Applications for Certificates of Occupancy shall be applied for
coincidentally with the application for a building permit and shall be issued
within 10 days after the lawful erection or alteration of the building is
completed. A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of
the Zoning Administrator, and copies shall be furnished on request to any
person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building affected.
   D.   No permit for excavation for, or the erection or alteration of any
building shall be issued before the application has been made for a Certificate
of Occupancy, and no building or premises shall be occupied until that
certificate is issued. A temporary Certificate of Occupancy may be issued by
the Zoning Administrator for a period not exceeding six months during
alterations for partial occupancy of a building pending its completion,
provided that such temporary certificate may include such conditions and
safeguards as will protect the safety of the occupants and the public.
   E.   A Certificate of Occupancy shall be required of all nonconforming uses.
Application for a certificate for nonconforming uses shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator within 12 months from the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter, accompanied by affidavits of proof that such
nonconforming use was not established in violation of previous ordinances.
3.   Plats. Each application for a Certificate of Occupancy shall be
accompanied by a plat in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the actual
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size, shape and location of the
building to be erected and such other information as may be necessary to
provide for the enforcement of this chapter. A record of applications and plats
shall be kept in the office of the Zoning Administrator. A copy in duplicate of
the approved site plan shall be submitted in all cases requiring site plan
approval.
165.40   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
A Board of Adjustment is hereby established, which shall consist of five
members appointed by the City Council, each for a term of five years, excepting
that when the Board shall first be created one member shall be appointed for a
term of five years, one for a term of four years, one for a term of three
years, one for a term of two years, and one for a term of one year. Members
shall be removable for cause by the City Council upon written charges and after
public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member
whose term becomes vacant.
1.   Proceedings of the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment shall
adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its affairs and in keeping with the
provisions of this chapter. Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairman
and at such other times as the Board may determine. The Chairman, or in his
absence the acting Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings shall be open to the public. The Board of Adjustment
shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each
question, or if absent or failing to vote indicating such fact, and shall keep
records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be a
public record and be immediately filed in the office of the Board. The presence
of three members shall be necessary to constitute a quorum.
2.   Hearings; Appeals; Notice. Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken
by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the
City affected by any decision of the Zoning Administrator. Such appeals shall
be taken within 15 days by filing with the Zoning Administrator and with the
Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. The
Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing on the appeal,
give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in interest,
and decide the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may
appear in person, or by agent or attorney. Before an appeal is filed with the
Board, the appellant shall pay a fee of $50.00 to the City Clerk to be credited
to the general fund of the City.
3.   Stay of Proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of
Adjustment after the notice of appeal is filed with him, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent
peril to life and property. In such case proceedings shall not be stayed other
than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or
by a court record on application, on notice to the Zoning Administrator and on
due cause shown.
4.   Board of Adjustment Powers and Duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have
the following powers and duties:
   A.   Administrative Review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by
the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of this chapter.
   B.   Special Exceptions. To permit the following exceptions to the district
regulations set forth in this ordinance, provided all exceptions shall by their
design, construction and operation adequately safeguard the health, safety and
welfare of the occupants of adjoining and surrounding property, shall not
impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property, shall not
increase congestion in the public streets, shall not increase public danger of
fire and safety, and shall not diminish or impair established property values
in surrounding areas.
      (1)   To permit erection and use of a building or the use of the premises
or vary the height, yard, or area regulations in any location for a public
service corporation for public utility purposes, or for purposes of public
communication, which the Board determines is reasonably necessary for the
public convenience or welfare.
      (2)   To permit the use of property in residential districts for off-
street parking purposes as accessory to permitted residential district uses
where said parking lots do not immediately adjoin the permitted residential
district use.
      (3)   To permit the extension of a zoning district where the boundary
line or a district divides a lot in single ownership as shown of record or by
existing contract or purchase at the time of the passage of this chapter, but
in no case shall such extension of the district boundary line exceed 30 feet in
any direction.
      (4)   To issue permits and decide and such matters as may be required by
other sections of this chapter.
   C.   Variances: Conditions, Applications, and Procedures. To authorize upon
appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of this chapter as will
not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a
literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter would result in
unnecessary hardship. A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be
granted by the Board of Adjustment unless and until:
      (1)   A written application for a variance is submitted demonstrating:
         (a.)   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district;
         (b.)   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicants of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this chapter;
         (c.)   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result
from the actions of the applicant;
         (d.)   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district.
      (2)   Nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in
the same district, and permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures, or
buildings in other districts shall not be considered grounds for the issuance
of a variance.
         (a.)   The Board of Adjustment shall make findings that the
requirements of Subsection C above have been met by the applicant for a
variance.
         (b.)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and
that the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
reasonable use of the land, building, or structure.
         (c.)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this chapter, and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.
      (3)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter and punishable under Section
165.43 of this chapter.
      (4)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter in the
district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this chapter in said district.
5.   Decisions of the Board of Adjustment. In exercising the above-mentioned
powers, the Board may, in conformity with the provisions of law, reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision or
determination as it believes proper, and to that end shall have all the powers
of the Zoning Administrator. The concurring vote of three of the members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Administrator, or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter;
provided, however, that the action of the Board shall not become effective
until after the resolution of the Board, setting forth the full reason for its
decision and the vote of each member participating therein, has been filed.
Such resolution, immediately following the Board’s final decision, shall be
filed in the office of the Board, and shall be open to public inspection.
   A.   Every variation and exception granted or denied by the Board shall be
supported by a written testimony or evidence submitted in connection therewith.
   B.   Any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board or bureau of the City,
or any person or persons jointly or severely aggrieved by any decision of the
Board may present to a court of record a petition, duly verified, setting for
the that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part specifying the grounds
of illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court within 30 days
after the final of the decision in the office of the Board.
165.41   AMENDMENTS AND FEES.
The City Council may, from time to time, on its own action or on petition,
after public notice and hearings as provided by law, and after report by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, amend, supplement, or change the boundaries or
regulations herein or subsequently established, and such amendment shall not
become effective except by the favorable vote of a majority of all the members
of the City Council.
1.   Whenever any person, firm or corporation desires that any amendment, or
change be made in this chapter, including the text or map, as to any property
covered by this chapter, and there shall be presented to the Council a petition
requesting such change or amendment and clearly describing the property and its
boundaries as to which the change or amendment is desired, duly signed by the
owners of 50 percent of the area of all real estate included within the
boundaries of said tract as described in said petition, and in addition, duly
signed by the owners of 50 percent of the area of all real estate lying outside
of said tract but within 250 feet of the boundaries thereof, and intervening
streets and alleys not to be included in computing such 250 feet, it shall be
the duty of the Council to vote upon such petition within a reasonable time
after filing of such petition with the City Clerk.
2.   Prior to voting or holding a public hearing upon the petition as
submitted, the City Council shall refer the petition to the Planning and Zoning
Commission requesting its comments and recommendations. The Commission, after
public hearing, shall advise the City Council of its recommendations and the
vote thereon.
3.   In case the proposed amendment, supplement or change be disapproved by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, or a protest be presented duly signed by the
owners of 20 percent or more either of the area of the lots included in such
proposed change, or of those immediately adjacent in the rear thereof,
extending the depth of one lot or not to exceed 200 feet therefrom, or of those
directly opposite thereto, extending the depth of one lot or not to exceed 200
feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such amendment shall not
become effective except by the favorable vote of at least three-fourths of all
members of the Council. Whenever any petition for amendment, supplement or
change of the zoning districts or regulations herein contained or subsequently
established shall have been denied by the City Council, then no new petition
covering the same property or the same property and additional property shall
be filed with or considered by the City Council until one year shall have
elapsed from the date of filing of the first petition.
4.   Before any action shall be taken as provided in this section, the owners
of the property shall complete an application clearly explaining their request.
Said applications will be available at City Hall and after completion,
submitted with the appropriate fee to the City Clerk to initiate proceedings.
The following fees are established to cover the City’s cost in administrating
the respective proceedings:
   A.   Rezoning Fee:      $200.00
   B.   Site Plan Review:   $150.00
   C.   Variance:      $150.00
   D.   Special Use Permit:   $150.00
   E.   Appeal:         $50.00
165.42   COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the
causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. He shall
record properly such complaint, immediately investigate, and take action
thereon as provided by this chapter.
165.43   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall constitute
a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than
$100.00 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, and in addition shall
pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the City from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation. Should any sector or provision of this chapter
be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole, or any part thereof
other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
CHAPTER 166
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
 
166.01 Title                         166.07 Preliminary Plat Requirements
166.02 Purpose                       166.08 Final Plat Procedure
166.03 Definitions                   166.09 Final Plat Requirements
166.04 Plats In Unincorporated Areas 166.10 Subdivision Design Standards
166.05 Procedure for Plat Approval   166.11 Required Improvements
166.06 Preliminary Plat Procedure    166.12 Variances and Administration
 
166.01   TITLE.
This chapter may be known and cited as the “Durant Subdivision Regulations” and
shall be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
166.02   PURPOSE.
This chapter regulates the conversion of vacant land or larger undeveloped
parcels into specific legal lots of record for residential, commercial and
industrial use. Public services, including but not limited to, streets, water,
sewer, garbage pick-up, and emergency response, are each impacted by the
location and design of new subdivisions. These regulations establish minimum
standards to ensure that as new development takes place careful consideration
is given to existing development including the long term impact the subdivision
will have on the provision of public services. Furthermore, the City’s
Comprehensive Land Use Plan and the City’s Zoning Ordinance each establish
guidelines and provide direction to assist in the subdivision process to ensure
that new developments promote the health, safety, and general welfare of
citizens of Durant Iowa.
166.03   DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter certain terms and words are hereby defined.
1.   “Administrative Officer” means the City official appointed by the City
Council to assist with the administration of this chapter.
2.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, 20 feet or less
in width, providing a secondary means of access to abutting property.
3.   “Arterial street” means a public right-of-way with a high degree of
continuity which serves the movement of large volumes of traffic between
various districts or areas of a city.
4.   “Auditor’s plat” means a plat prepared at the request of the County
Auditor to clarify property descriptions for the purposes of assessment and
taxation.
5.   “Block” means an area of land bounded by streets or public land within a
subdivision that is geographically located within a defined area or
subdivision.
6.   “Building line” means a line designating the allowable proximity of a
building to an adjacent street, alley, or property line.
7.   “Collector street” means a street which carries traffic from minor streets
to an arterial, including the principal entrance streets of a residential
development and streets for basic circulation within such a development.
8.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of Durant, Iowa.
9.   “Comprehensive Plan” means the composite of the functional and geographic
elements of the determined goals and objectives of the City for the harmonious
future development thereof; in the form of plans, maps, charts, and text
material as adopted by the City.
10.   “Cul-de-sac” means a minor street having one open end and being
permanently terminated at the other end by a vehicular turn-around.
11.   “Easement” means a grant by a property owner of the specific use of land
to the public generally, or to a person or persons. The easement should specify
the purpose and use including what can or cannot be done within the easement
area.
12.   “Engineer” means the City’s Registered Professional Engineer, whether a
City employee or retained by the City, for the necessary functions herein
defined.
13.   “Final plat” means a map or plan of a subdivision, and any accompanying
material. The legally recorded plat of record establishing legal lots for sale.
14.   “Half street” means a street bordering one or more property lines of a
tract of land in which the developer has allocated only part of the ultimate
right-of-way width.
15.   “Lot” means a portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended
as a unit for the purpose of transfer of ownership or for building development.
16.   “Minor street” means a street of limited continuity used primarily for
access to abutting properties and the local needs of a neighborhood. Often
referred to as a local street.
17.   “Pedestrian way” means a right-of-way across or within a block for use by
pedestrian traffic, whether designated as a pedestrian way or a crosswalk or
other.
18.   “Person” means any individual, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, trust, or other legal entity.
19.   “Planning Administrator” means the City official appointed by the City
Council to assist in the administration and review of a proposed development to
ensure compliance and consistency with the City’s Comprehensive Plan as well as
other planning, zoning, and subdivision standards and regulations.
20.   “Plat” means a map, drawing, plan, or chart of a subdivision.
21.   “Preliminary plat” means a tentative map or plan of a proposed
subdivision. This plat should include the broader or larger area for
development purposes and address the various issues or factors affecting
development such as street locations, drainage, utilities, etc.
22.   “Proprietor’s plat” means a plat as defined herein submitted by the owner
of the land being platted, or his agent, or other private entity, acting with
the consent of the owner.
23.   “Protective covenants” means contracts entered into between private
parties which constitute a restriction on the use of all private property
within a subdivision for the benefit of property owners, and to provide mutual
protection against undesirable aspects of development which would tend to
impair stability of values.
24.   “Statewide Urban Design and Specifications (SUDAS)” means manuals for
public improvements, maintained by The Institute for Transportation at Iowa
State University. Such improvements include sanitary sewers and water mains,
streets and sidewalks, utility locations, signalization, drainage and erosion
control, etc.
25.   “Street” means a public right-of-way which affords primary means of
access by pedestrians and vehicles to abutting properties.
26.   “Subdivider” means any person commencing proceedings under this chapter
for himself or for another.
27.   “Subdivision” means the division of a parcel of land into three or more
lots or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building
development; or, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land;
provided that the division of land for agricultural purposes into lots or
parcels of 40 acres or more and not involving a new street shall not be deemed
a subdivision. The term includes re-subdivision and, when appropriate to the
context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
28.   “Subdivision design standards” means the guides, principles, and
specifications for the preparation of subdivision plans.
166.04   PLATS IN UNINCORPORATED AREAS.
With regard to subdivisions located in the unincorporated areas of Cedar,
Scott, and Muscatine counties within two miles of the corporate City limits,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply. The Commission and Council shall
have the right to waive such requirements as are contained in this chapter to
the end that the Commission and Council are satisfied that equally suitable
regulations have been placed on these subdivisions by the Board of Supervisors
of the appropriate County: provided, however, that the County Board of
Supervisors furnish the Commission with a copy of said subdivision certifying
that all requirements of the appropriate County ordinances have been met. The
Commission shall study such plat to determine that no conflict exists with the
extension of existing streets and rights-of-way within the City into the
unincorporated area and to determine if the plat would otherwise interfere in
any way with the carrying out of the Comprehensive Plan for the City. If the
Commission is satisfied by their studies that these conditions are provided for
they shall endorse their approval upon said plat and submit it to the City
Council. Upon approval by the City Council, the City Clerk shall notify the
County Auditor and Recorder of the appropriate County in accordance with the
provisions of existing statutes. The purpose of this section is to facilitate
the orderly processing of subdivisions in unincorporated areas within two miles
of the City and to avoid conflicting regulations while at the same time
assuring that provisions are made for proper and orderly future growth of the
City.
166.05   PROCEDURE FOR PLAT APPROVAL.
The subdivision review process is comprised of a three step process.
1.   Step 1 involves an initial meeting with the landowner or developer to
discuss with City staff or appointed review persons such as the appointed
Zoning Administrator, Public Works Director, and City Engineer the overall
project concept. This meeting should clarify the City’s expectations with
regard to filing requirements, ordinance requirements, service availability and
other matters such as consistency with the City’s Comprehensive Plan and the
City’s ability to assist or extend City services to a particular area .
2.   Step 2 involves the submittal of the preliminary plat for review and
approval. The preliminary plat will show in considerable detail the planning
and layout of the proposed project. As stated in Section
166.07, the plat will show contour lines, site features such as waterways,
flood hazard areas, large trees, and existing buildings. The contour lines will
assist in the review to determine appropriate grades to ensure lots will be
well-drained and buildable. In addition, contour lines will help to determine
whether or not the streets are laid out to blend with the sites slope and
amenities, and whether utilities, such as sanitary sewers, are designed to
utilize gravity flow versus the need for forced mains and lift stations.
Typically, the preliminary plat should show the larger or build out scenario
for an area with the final plat representing a particular phase of the
development.
3.   Step 3 of the process represents final plat review and approval. The final
plat is a final and accurate version of the approved preliminary plat and
reflects changes and conditions made during the review process. This is the
formal legal document that is then recorded and allows the subsequent sale of
lots for development. Section
166.08 outlines the requirements for final plat review and approval.
Before a final plat is released by the City for recording, assurance needs to
be made that public improvements, such as streets and sewers, have been
constructed and accepted by the City Engineer or that an appropriate financial
guarantee such as a performance bond, letter of credit, or escrow is in place.
If the landowner or developer completes the improvements per the approved plans
and per the adopted design and construction standards or posts an appropriate
financial guarantee that said work will be completed, the plat may then be
recorded and lots are ready to be sold. When improvements are accepted by the
City, the City may then release the financial guarantee and therefor accept
responsibility for the improvements from that point forward.
166.06   PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE.
Whenever the owner, or owners, of any tract or parcel of land within the
corporate limits of the City, or within two miles thereof, wishes to make a
subdivision of the same, he shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat of
said subdivision and shall submit said preliminary plat and such other
information as is hereinafter required to the City for preliminary study and
approval.
1.   At least 12 copies of the preliminary plat together with completed
application forms for preliminary approval shall be submitted to the
administrative officer at least two weeks prior to the Commission meeting at
which consideration is desired. The administrative officer shall refer seven
copies of said plat to the Secretary of the Commission and one copy to the City
Engineer upon receipt of a preliminary plat.
2.   No land shall be approved for subdivision which is subject to periodic
flooding or which contains extremely poor drainage facilities. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the City
Engineer, make the area completely safe for occupancy and provide adequate
drainage, the preliminary plan may be approved.
3.   The Commission shall notify the owner or subdivider as to the time and
place of the meeting at which his plat and plan will be studied. The Commission
requests that the owner or subdivider attend the meeting with his/her
representatives to address any questions raised at said meeting. The Commission
shall study and act on the preliminary plat and the City Engineer shall study
said plat and plans in regard to all public improvements including street
layout and the provision of water and sewerage systems while the Planning
Administrator shall review the plat in regards to overall compliance and
consistency with adopted City Plans and applicable ordinances. Both the City
Engineer and Planning Administrator shall make recommendations on these aspects
to the Commission; all to be accomplished within 45 days after submission to
the administrative officer. If the Commission disapproves a plat, the reasons
for disapproval shall be remedied prior to further consideration. The
preliminary plat shall not be approved until the plans and specifications for
necessary improvements are acceptable to the engineer.
4.   If the Commission acts favorably on a preliminary plat, a notation to that
effect shall be made on the plat above the signature of the chairman and
secretary, and it shall be referred to the City Council for action. The City
Council shall act within 20 days. Its action shall be noted on the plat, signed
by the Mayor, attested to by the City Clerk, and shall be returned to the
subdivider for compliance with final plat requirements. Approval of the
preliminary plat shall confer upon the applicant the following rights for a
period of one year from the date of approval:
   A.   That the general terms and conditions under which the preliminary
approval was granted will not be changed.
   B.   That the applicant may submit on or before the expiration date the
whole or part of said plat for final approval.
166.07   PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
As stated in Section
166.05, each subdivider of land should confer and meet with City
representatives prior to preparing and submittal of a preliminary plat. The
pre-application meeting should include a representative of the Commission in
order to become thoroughly familiar with the Comprehensive Plan and with other
municipal regulations affecting the area in which the proposed subdivision
lies. After such meeting, the owner shall then submit 12 copies of a
preliminary plat to the Commission which shall be drawn to a scale of not less
than one inch to 100 feet by a registered engineer and licensed land surveyor
and shall show the following:
1.   Date, scale, and North arrow.
2.   Location of the plat by quarter section, section, township and range and
any other necessary legal description to describe the boundary line of the
proposed subdivision.
3.   Approximate total area of proposed subdivision.
4.   Names and addresses of owner or subdivider of land and the engineer and
land surveyor preparing the plat and associated information, including phone
numbers for easy contact.
5.   Topographic map of the area showing contours as follows: two-foot
intervals where slope is seven percent or less; five foot intervals where slope
is from seven to 15 percent; 10- or 20-foot intervals where slope is greater
than 15 percent. All areas of the subdivision to be platted with a slope of
greater than 20 percent shall be clearly indicated.
6.   Water elevations of adjoining lakes, rivers and streams at date of survey
and their approximate high and low water elevations. All elevations shall, when
possible, refer to established United States Coast and Geodetic Survey or
United States Geological Survey Datum. FEMA flood plain maps should be utilized
regarding flood hazard areas.
7.   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions and the owners of adjoining
parcels of unsubdivided land.
8.   Present zoning district classification of land to be subdivided and all
adjacent lands; and the proposed zoning district classification for the land to
be subdivided if a change is intended.
9.   Location, widths, and names of all existing, platted, or dedicated
streets, easements, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks, water courses,
drainage ditches, permanent buildings and structures, section and township
lines and such other data as may be required by the Commission within the area
being subdivided and within 300 feet of the exterior boundaries thereof.
10.   Location, size, and flow elevations of existing and proposed sanitary and
storm sewers, location and size of water mains, culverts and other underground
facilities within the area being subdivided and within 300 feet of the exterior
boundaries thereof. Also, the location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric
and telephone lines or poles and street lights.
11.   Lengths and bearings of the exterior boundaries of the land being
subdivided.
12.   The location, width, and name of all proposed streets, rights-of-way and
easements, whether public or private, for public and private utilities. Street
names shall be identical to existing street names if the proposed street is an
extension of the existing street. Public streets shall be required in all
subdivisions.
13.   Approximate dimensions of all lots including lot size in acres or portion
thereof.
14.   Approximate radii of all curves and lengths of all tangents.
15.   Approximate finish grades of all streets and surface drainage facilities
with spot elevations given in critical areas, at every proposed street
intersection and where severe cuts or fills are proposed.
16.   Approximate location and area of all property to be dedicated for public
use or reserved by deed covenant for use by all property owners in the
development, with a statement of the conditions of such dedication or
reservation.
17.   Approximate location of well and site and sanitary treatment facility
site. If community water or sanitary treatment facilities are being proposed,
the source of domestic water supply, and type of sewage disposal.
18.   A feasibility report regarding community water and sewerage facilities
where such facilities are to be incorporated in the final plat.
19.   Percolation test results, minimum of one per acre, together with soil
borings, a minimum of one for every acre to indicate depth to water table and
rock formation, when requested by the City Engineer.
20.   A soil analysis obtainable from the United States Department of
Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, when requested by the City Engineer.
21.   An attorney’s opinion of the abstract covering the property to be
included in the final plat shall be submitted in duplicate showing all taxes
due shall have been previously paid and that there are no outstanding liens or
encumbrances on the property. The names of all record title holders and any
other information that might otherwise affect the title of lots in the proposed
subdivision shall be shown. The opinion shall be written by an attorney
admitted to the practice of law in the State of Iowa.
166.08   FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE.
Before consideration of a final subdivision plat, the subdivider shall have
installed the improvements required under this Code of Ordinances or the
Commission shall require the posting of adequate performance guarantees with
the administrative officer to assure the installation of the required
improvements within one year after final approval of the plat as provided in
Section
166.11.
1.   The final plat or, in the case of large subdivisions, a final plat of part
of the area covered by the approved preliminary plat shall be submitted to the
administrative officer for forwarding to the Commission for final approval
within one year from the date of preliminary approval. The administrative
officer shall refer seven copies of said plat to the Secretary of the
Commission and one copy to the engineer upon receipt of a final plat. The
Commission shall be assisted by the engineer’s recommendations and shall act
upon the final plat within 45 days after the date of submission for final
approval to the administrative officer.
2.   Twelve copies of the final plat along with the application form for final
approval shall be submitted to the administrative officer at least 14 days
prior to the date of a regular Commission meeting at which action is sought.
Unless the preliminary plat is approved without changes, the final plat shall
have incorporated all changes or modifications required by the Commission and
Council. The final plat shall be accompanied by a statement from the engineer
that he has received a map showing all utilities in exact location and
elevation; identifying those portions already installed, those to be installed;
and the subdivider has complied with the requirements of
Chapter 171 regarding installation of improvements.
3.   Failure of the Commission to act within the allotted time or a mutually
agreed upon extension shall be deemed to be a favorable recommendation, and the
plat shall be forwarded to the City Council for action on the final plat. If
approval is given, the Commission shall indicate such approval on the plat over
the signature of both the chairman and secretary of the Commission; and the
Commission shall then forward the plat to the City Council for final approval
and acceptance of all streets , alleys, ways, easements, parks or areas
preserved for or dedicated to the public.
4.   If the Commission does not recommend approval of the final plat of a
subdivision, the City Council may approve the plat and accept all streets,
alleys, ways, easements, parks or areas preserved for or dedicated to the
public only by a three-fourths vote of the entire membership of the City
Council.
5.   Upon final approval, copies of the final plat shall be filed by the City
Council with the following:
   A.    Planning and Zoning Commission.
   B.   Administrative Officer.
   C.   City Engineer.
6.   Approval of the final plat by the City Council shall be null and void if
the plat is not recorded within 30 days after date of approval, unless
application for an extension of time is made in writing during said 30 day
period to the Council, and granted.
166.09   FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
Following preliminary approval, 12 copies of the final plat shall be submitted
to the Commission for study and review. Ten copies of the final plat as
ultimately approved by the Commission shall be necessary for submission to the
City Council for its approval. This plat shall be made from an accurate survey
by a licensed land surveyor and engineer and drawn to a scale of 100 feet to
the inch or larger. The final plat shall show the following:
   A.   All information required and shown on the preliminary plat as required
by Section
166.07.
   B.   Accurate angular and linear dimensions for all lines, angles and
curvatures used to describe boundaries.
   C.   True angles and distances to the nearest street lines or official
monuments.
   D.   Lines of adjoining streets and alleys, with their widths and names.
   E.   Township, County and section lines accurately tied to the lines of the
subdivision by distances and angles.
   F.   Radii, arcs and chords, points of tangency, central angles for all
curvilinear streets and radii for all rounded corners.
   G.   Exact dimensions of all lots including lot size in acres or portion
thereof.
   H.   An identification system for all lots and blocks, using consecutive
numbers.
   I.   Exact location and area of all land to be dedicated for public use or
reserved by deed covenant for common use of all property owners with the
purpose indicated thereon. All lands dedicated for public use, other than
streets, shall be marked “Dedicated to Public.” All protective or deed
covenants or private restrictions shall be shown on the plat or correctly
referenced.
   J.   Building setback lines as established by the Zoning Regulations in
Chapter 165 or deed restrictions.
   K.   Where community-type water and sewerage facilities are not available; a
statement that any lot sold or transferred will have a minimum width and area
equal to that shown on the plat.
   L.   Proper acknowledgement of owners and mortgagees accepting said platting
and restrictions.
   M.   When a proposed entrance of the subdivision is onto a controlled access
street or road, the approval of the City Engineer regarding such entrance shall
accompany the final plat. Where such control is exercised by the Iowa
Department of Transportation, the approval of this body shall accompany the
final plat.
   N.   Certification by a licensed land surveyor that the plat represents a
survey made by him and that monuments and markers shown thereon exist as shown.
   O.   A certificate by the owner or owners dedicating to the public for full
public use all street and street rights-of-way and other land designated as
“Dedicated to Public,” and the granting of utility easements as shown on the
plat.
   P.   A Certificate of Approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
City Engineer.
   Q.   A Resolution of Plat Approval with the Mayor and City Clerk’s
certification.
   R.   Certificates. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to obtain and
submit to the County Recorder the following certificates, prior to or at the
time that the final plat is submitted for record:
      (1)   Certificate from the County Treasurer that the subdivision land is
free from taxes.
      (2)   Certificate from the Clerk of the District Court that the
subdivision land is free from all judgments, attachments, mechanics, or liens
of record in his office.
      (3)   Certificate from the County Recorder that the title in fee is in
the owner and that it is free from encumbrances other than those secured by an
encumbrance bond.
      (4)   Certificate by the owner and spouse, if any, that the subdivision
is with the free consent and is in accordance with the desire of the owners.
This certificate must be signed and acknowledged by the owner and spouse before
some officer authorized to take the acknowledgment of deeds.
166.10   SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS.
The following standards shall be applied as minimum requirements for
subdivisions within the City. The City has formally adopted and recognizes, by
this chapter, the Iowa Statewide Urban Design and Specifications (SUDAS). These
design standards and specifications (SUDAS) should be referred to and may be
applied and required as determined by the City Engineer when and where the
following standards are viewed as incomplete or not adequate for a particular
application.
1.   Streets. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of
all streets shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan and shall be considered in
relation to existing and planned streets, to topographic conditions, to public
convenience and safety, and in appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the
land to be served by such streets.
   A.   Where not shown in the Comprehensive Plan, the arrangement of streets
in a subdivision shall:
      (1)   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing
principal streets in surrounding areas; or
      (2)   Conform to a plan for the neighborhood, approved or adopted by the
Commission, to meet a particular situation where topographical or other
conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets impracticable.
   B.   Minor streets shall be laid out so that use by through traffic will be
discouraged.
   C.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, the Commission may require marginal access streets, reverse frontage
with screen planting contained in a non-access reservation along the rear
property line, deep lots with rear service alleys, or such other treatment as
may be necessary for adequate protection of the residential or other proposed
properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
   D.   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way, the
Commission may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of
such right-of-way at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of the
intervening land, such as, park purposes in residential districts or commercial
or industrial purposes in appropriate districts. Such distances shall also be
determined with due regard for the requirements of approach grades and future
grade separations.
   E.   Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited except
where their control is definitely placed with the City under conditions
approved by the Commission.
   F.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
   G.   A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between reverse
curves on arterial and collector streets.
   H.   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any point by
more than 10 degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a radius adequate
to insures a slight distance of not less than 100 feet for minor and collector
streets, and of such greater radii as the Commission shall determine for
special cases.
   I.   Streets shall be laid out to intersect as nearly as possible at right
angles and no street shall intersect any other street at less than 60 degrees.
More than two streets intersecting at the same location shall be prohibited.
   J.   When the Commission finds it necessary for reasons of safety and the
protection of property, property lines at the street intersections shall be
rounded with a radius of 15 feet or it may permit comparable chords in lieu of
the rounded corner.
   K.   Street right-of-way widths shall be as shown in the Comprehensive Plan
and where not shown therein shall be not less than the following:
 
Street Type        Right-Of-Way                 Min Width of Street Service
State Arterial     Requirements set by Iowa-DOT  
Community Arterial 80 ft                        40 ft b.b.
Collector          60 ft                        31 ft b.b.
Minor/Local        50 ft*                       27 ft b.b.
Cul-de-sac         50 ft                        45 foot minimum radius
*With all utilities stubbed to the lot lines.
 
   L.   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and where the Commission finds it will be
practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
   M.   Dead-end streets, designed to be so permanently, shall not be longer
than 600 feet except where the Commission has approved a maximum length not to
exceed 1,000 feet due to property limitations. Such streets shall be provided
at the closed end with a turn-around having an outside roadway diameter of at
least 80 feet and a street property line diameter of at least 120 feet. The
Commission may approve a “T” type turn-around in lieu of the circular turn-
around.
   N.   Street names shall not be used which will duplicate or be confused with
the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to the approval of
the Commission.
   O.   Street grades, wherever feasible, shall not exceed the following, with
due allowance for reasonable vertical curves:
 
Street Type Percent Grade
Arterial    6%
Collector   8%
Minor/Local 10%
Cul-de-sac  10%
 
   P.   No street grade shall be less than one-half of one percent where
drainage is carried within the traveled roadway.
2.   Alleys. Alleys may be provided in commercial and industrial districts as a
provision for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading, and
parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed. In residential
districts, alleys may be provided as part of a logical and unified design
theme, such as that used in neotraditional residential design.
   A.   The minimum width of an alley shall be 20 feet.
   B.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided;
but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
   C.   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible; but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turn-around facilities as determined by the
Commission.
3.   Easements.
   A.   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be
provided for utilities and shall not be less than five feet in width on each
side of all rear lot lines and side lot lines where necessary for poles, wires,
conduits, storm sewers and sanitary sewers, gas, water, and heat mains. Greater
width easements may be required in some cases.
   B.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage-way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse, and
such further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the
purpose. Parallel streets or parkways may be required in connection therewith.
If it is deemed advisable by the Commission or the engineer, such watercourse
or drainage-way may be reestablished to conform with the proposed street
pattern, in which case suitable storm drainage facilities shall be installed as
designed and established by a Registered Professional Engineer for the
subdivider.
4.   Blocks.
   A.   The length, width, and shape of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to:
      (1)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated.
      (2)   Zoning requirements regarding lot sizes and dimensions.
      (3)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic.
      (4)   Limitations and opportunities of topography and other natural
features.
   B.   Block length shall not exceed 1,000 feet, or be less than 500 feet.
   C.   Pedestrian crosswalks, not less than 10 feet wide, shall be required
where deemed essential to provide circulation, or access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, and other community facilities.
5.   Lots.
   A.   Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the zoning
ordinance; however, greater lot area and dimensions may be required where
community water and sewerage facilities are not available, if necessary and as
determined by the tests and analyses specified in Section
166.11(4)(C) of this chapter and required by the City Engineer.
   B.   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for commercial and
industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street service and
parking facilities required by the type of use and development contemplated.
   C.   The subdividing of the land shall be such to provide, by means of a
public street, each lot with satisfactory access to an existing public street.
   D.   Large lot subdivisions. Whenever the area is divided into lots
containing one or more acres and there are indications that such lots will
eventually be subdivided into smaller building lots, consideration shall be
given to the street and lot arrangement of the original subdivision so that
additional minor streets can be opened which will permit a logical and
functional arrangement of smaller lots.
   E.   Double frontage lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide
separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen
easement of at least 10 feet, and across which there shall be no right of
access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery
or other disadvantageous use.
   F.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines. Side lines of lots formed by radial projections shall form a lot
having not less than 20 feet across the rear property line.
   G.   Corner lots for residential use shall have additional width to permit
appropriate building setback from an orientation to both streets.
6.   Public Sites and Open Spaces.
   A.   Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public use shown in
the Comprehensive Plan is located in whole or in part in a subdivision, the
Commission may require that such area be reserved for acquisition by the City
or school district at the fair market value prior to development, for a period
of two years, in those cases in which the Commission deems such requirements to
be reasonable.
   B.   Where deemed essential by the Commission, upon consideration of the
particular type of development proposed in the subdivision, and especially in
large-scale neighborhood development not anticipated in the Comprehensive Plan,
the Commission may require land designated to meet the needs created by such
development for schools, parks and other neighborhood purposes.
7.   Utilities. The source of domestic water supply and type of sewage disposal
shall accompany each plat for the information of the Commission, the Engineer,
and the City Council.
166.11   REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
Before the final plat of any area shall be approved by the City Council and
recorded, the subdivider shall make and install the improvements described in
this section. In lieu of final completion of the minimum improvements before
the plat is finally approved, the subdivider shall post a bond, approved by the
City Attorney and City Treasurer, with the City, which bond will insure to the
City that the improvements will be completed by the subdivider within one year
after final approval of the plat. The amount of the bond shall not be less than
the estimate cost of the improvements and the amount of the estimate must be
approved by the City Council. If the improvements are not completed within the
specified time, the City may use the bond or any portion thereof to complete
same. For plats located in unincorporated areas within two miles of the Durant
City limits, the requirements of this section shall apply. The Commission and
Council may waive the requirements of this section provided they are satisfied
that the regulations governing the unincorporated areas within which the
subdivision is located are sufficient to insure adequate conformance with these
regulations. The minimum improvements installed or for which bond is posted, in
any subdivision, before the plat can be finally approved shall be in accordance
with the following sections:
1.   Street Construction. The subdivider shall grade and improve all streets
within the subdivision; such grading and improvement shall be provided to the
full right-of-way width. The street shall be developed with Portland cement
concrete with integral curb or 24 inch Portland cement concrete flat (drive
over) curb and gutter, or 24-inch Portland cement concrete (high back) curb and
gutter sections with rolled stone base and asphaltic concrete surface. Pavement
thickness and specification shall meet City specifications.
   A.   The width of the street shall conform to the requirements of its
functional classification as specified in Section
166.10(1)(K).
   B.   Alleys shall be paved with either Portland cement concrete or asphaltic
concrete to the full width in accordance with City specifications.
   C.   All streets shall be sodded or seeded with grass in a manner which
shall provide suitable protection from erosion over that area lying between the
right-of-way lines and the back of street curbs. Erosion control matting and
similar treatment may be required in areas of slope or areas subject to erosion
as required by the City Engineer.
   D.   Adequate provisions for the collection and disposal of surface and
stormwater shall be provided within the street right-of-way. All storm sewer
design and construction shall be in accordance with the City’s standards and
specifications.
   E.   Street profiles and the necessary drainage plans to serve the area
shall be determined and designed by a registered professional engineer for the
subdivider. All construction of such facilities shall be in accordance with
such profiles and plans and shall be subject to the recommendations,
supervision and approval of the City Engineer and shall be in accordance with
City specifications.
2.   Sidewalk Construction.
   A.   The subdivider shall install or cause to be installed sidewalks on each
side of surfaced streets (for the full length of blocks). Sidewalks shall be a
minimum of four feet wide and located in the street right-of-way with the outer
edge one foot from the right-of-way line/property line.
   B.   Sidewalk construction specifications shall be per the City Engineer
with standard specifications available at City Hall.
3.   Water Facilities.
   A.   Where a public water main is accessible, the subdivider shall install
adequate water facilities (including fire hydrants) according to the City’s
specifications and as required by the municipal water department. Proposed
locations of fire hydrants shall be approved by the City Engineer and the
municipal water department.
   B.   If a public water system is not available, individual wells may be
used, provided that construction is in accordance with Iowa State Department of
Health Standards and that samples submitted to the Iowa Department of Health
are approved for human consumption.
   C.   In the future, however, if a public water service is accessible and a
water main is placed in a street, alley or easement abutting upon property, the
owner thereof shall be required to connect to said water main for the purpose
of primary water service; and it shall be unlawful for any such owner or
occupant to maintain upon such property an individual well system as its
primary water source.
4.   Sewer Facilities.
   A.   Where a public sanitary sewer is accessible, the subdivider shall
install adequate sanitary sewer facilities (including the installation of house
service lines to the street right-of-way line) subject to City specifications.
   B.   Where sewage pumping stations are required, the location will be
determined by the City Engineer. The subdivider will install the pumping
station with all required appurtenances and force main. The subdivider will be
reimbursed in the proportion of which the area outside the subdivision, but
served by the pumping station, bears to the total area to potentially served by
the pumping station. If the subdivider connects to a sewer leading to a sewage
pumping station, he will be required to pay to the City his pro rata share of
the cost of the pumping station and force main according to the ration of area
his subdivision has to the total area to be potentially served by the sewage
pumping station.
   C.   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, the minimum lot area
shall conform to the requirements of this chapter. The subdivider shall make,
or cause to be made, percolation tests of the soil as required by the City
Engineer. These tests shall be the basis for design of individual sanitary
facilities.
   D.   In the future, however, if a public sanitary sewer is accessible and a
sanitary sewer is placed in a street, alley or easement abutting upon property,
the owner thereof shall be required to connect to said sewer for the purpose of
disposing of waste; and it shall be unlawful for any such owner or occupant to
maintain upon such property an individual sewage disposal system.
5.   Stormwater. When a public storm sewer is accessible, the developer shall
install storm sewer facilities. Where no outlets are available within a
reasonable distance, adequate provision shall be made for disposal of
stormwater as approved by the City Engineer.
   A.   New developments shall be required to detain the difference in volume
of the five-year undeveloped storm and the 100-year developed storm events for
their development site. The allowable release rate for the detention
calculations shall be the five-year undeveloped storm. The method for the
determination of this volume of water shall be proposed by the developer’s
engineer and approved by the City Engineer. Regional stormwater management
shall be preferred method of stormwater detention versus numerous small
individual detention facilities. The developer shall bear all construction and
maintenance cost of the stormwater detention management facilities unless they
are officially dedicated and accepted by the City. Stormwater management is
required for all new subdivisions of larger than three acres for residential
developments and two acres for commercial and industrial developments.
   B.   All storm sewer design and construction shall be in accordance with
City standards and specifications or per SUDAS as referred to in this chapter.
6.   Monuments. Permanent monuments shall be set at each corner of the
perimeter of the subdivision and at the corner of each block within the
subdivision and at the corner of each lot. All monuments shall be made of
permanent material, sensitive to a dip needle and at least 30 inches long, and
shall conform with standard specifications of the City. All monuments shall
meet the requirements of Section 409.30 of the Code of Iowa.
7.   Street Trees. Street trees or other plantings within the street right-of-
way is prohibited.
8.   Utilities. The Council and Commission may require that all utility lines
except electric lines of nominal voltage in excess of 15,000 volts, be
installed underground. The subdivider shall be responsible for making the
necessary arrangements with the utility companies for installation of such
facilities. Said utility lines shall be installed in such a manner so as not to
interfere with other underground utilities. Underground utility lines which
cross underneath the right-of-way of any street, alley or way shall be
installed prior to the improvement of any such street, alley or way in the
subdivision. Incidental appurtenances, such as transformers and their
enclosures, pedestal mounted terminal boxes, meters and meter cabinets may be
placed above ground but shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous
to the public. Such incidental appurtenances shall be in accordance with the
standards and specifications of the City. If overhead utility lines or wires
are permitted, they shall be placed in the easements provided in the rear of
the lots. In their determination on whether or not to require underground
utilities, the Council and Commission may consider that soil, topographical, or
other conditions make such installations within the subdivision unreasonable or
impractical.
9.   Construction. All plans, specifications, installation and construction
required by this chapter shall be subject to review, approval and inspection by
the City Engineer or his authorized representative. All completed improvements
must be formally approved and accepted by the City, as directed by the City
Engineer, to ensure that said improvements were properly constructed and met
the standards and specifications as outlined herein or referenced in the Iowa
Statewide Urban Design and Specifications (SUDAS).
   A.   The City Council may require contracts for all public improvements to
be executed on forms furnished and approved by the City Attorney and City
Council.
   B.   The subdivider shall furnish the City Engineer with a construction
schedule prior to commencement of any or all construction, and shall notify the
engineer not less than 48 hours in advance of readiness for required
inspection. The subdivider shall reimburse the City for the costs expended for
all inspection services and tests furnished and conducted by or on behalf of
the City.
   C.   The subdivider shall be responsible for the installation and/or
construction of all improvements required by this ordinance, and shall warrant
the design, materials, and workmanship of such improvements, installation and
construction for a period of two years from and after completion. Such warranty
shall be by bond or other acceptable collateral; and shall be subject to review
by the City Attorney; shall assure the expedient repair or replacement or
defective improvements under warranty; and shall indemnify the City from all
costs or losses resulting from or contributed to such defective improvements.
   D.   The City Engineer or Public Works Director may require “As Built”
drawings on a case by case basis, particularly in situations where deviations
to the approved plans took place during construction and should be in writing
or noted for future reference.
166.12   VARIANCES AND ADMINISTRATION.
1.   Hardship. Where the City Council upon recommendation of the Commission
finds that extraordinary hardships may result from strict compliance with these
regulations, it may vary the regulations so that substantial justice may be
done and the public interest secured, provided that such variation will not
have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of the Comprehensive Plan
or this chapter. Careful consideration must take place to ensure that reducing
design and construction standards does not result in future public costs above
and beyond that anticipated by conforming projects.
2.   Large-Scale Development. The standards and requirements of these
regulations may be modified by the Council upon recommendation of the
Commission in the case of a plan and program for a self-contained, complete
community or a neighborhood unit, which would, in the judgment of the Council
and Commission, provide adequate public spaces and improvements for the
circulation, recreation, light, air and service needs of the tract when fully
developed and populated, and which would also provide such covenants or other
legal provisions as will assure conformity to and achievement of the plan.
3.   Conditions. In granting variances and modifications, the Council and
Commission shall weigh the benefits or hardships against the general standards
and objectives of this chapter, and may require such conditions as will secure
substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements so varied or
modified.
4.   Filing Fees. Before a preliminary plat shall be considered by the
Commission, the subdivider or his agent shall deposit with the City Clerk a fee
of $150.00. A receipt of such filing fee shall be filed with the preliminary
plat. Before a final plat shall be considered by the Commission, the subdivider
or his agent shall deposit with the City Clerk a fee of $50.00, plus $10.00 for
each lot included in the final plat. A receipt of such filing fee shall be
filed with the final plat.
5.   Amendments. Any regulations or provisions of this chapter may be changed
and amended from time to time by the City Council with such amendment being
initiated by the City Council, by a motion by the Commission or by a petition
by any person; provided that such changes or amendments shall not become
effective until they have first been reviewed and a recommendation has been
made thereon by the Commission; and further provided that a public hearing
shall be held by the City Council, public notice of which shall be given in a
newspaper of general circulation in the City at least 15 days prior to such
hearing.
6.   Conflict and Validity. Wherever the requirements of this chapter are at
variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, or ordinances, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher
standard shall govern. Should any section, clause or provision of this chapter
be declared by a court to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of
this chapter be declared by a court to be invalid, the same shall not affect
the validity of this chapter as a whole or the remaining portions of this
chapter.
7.   Enforcement. No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded
in the County recorder’s office or have any validity until it shall have been
approved in the manner prescribed herein. The Zoning Administrator shall not
issue permits for any structure located on a lot in any subdivision, the plat
of which has been prepared after the date of the adoption of this chapter but
which has not been approved in accordance with the provisions contained herein.
The City Council shall not permit any public improvements over which it has any
control to be made or any money expended for improvements in any area that has
been subdivided or upon any street that has been platted after the date of
adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter unless such subdivision or
street has been approved in accordance with the provisions contained herein.
CHAPTER 171
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
 
171.01 Purpose                    171.06 Submission and Approval Of Plan
171.02 Definitions                171.07 Ownership By City
171.03 Areas Requiring Stormwater 171.08 Private Ownership
Management
171.04 Stormwater Management      171.09 Further Requirements
Requirements
171.05 Plan Design Requirements
 
171.01   PURPOSE.
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish policies to manage and control
stormwater runoff occurring from new development or improvements of
residential, commercial, and industrial areas. The goal is to help protect the
City’s surface waters and quality of life by reducing the negative impacts of
sediment, rainfall, melting snow, and other water runoff. In addition increase
safety, erosion control and flow reduction into the overall storm sewer
collection system.
171.02   DEFINITIONS.
Wherever used in this chapter, the terms listed below will have the meanings
indicated.
1.   “Bio-detention system” means a stormwater management practice
incorporating plantings, engineered soil mix to promote infiltration, stone
aggregate base layer, and underdrain.
2.   “Capacity” means the maximum volume or rate of conveyance available in a
storm management facility, including freeboard, to store or convey stormwater
without damage to public or private property.
3.   “City engineer” means a professional, licensed in the State of Iowa to
practice in the field civil works, designated and authorized by the Council to
carry out various functions as specified in this chapter.
4.   “Design storm” means a storm with depth of rainfall that would occur for
the stated return frequency (i.e. once every two years or 10 years) duration
(i.e. 24 hours) and timing of distribution. All values are based on historical
rainfall records for the area.
5.   “Detention basin” means a stormwater management facility designed to
protect against flooding and in some cases, downstream erosion by storing water
for a limited period of time. Detention basins do not retain a significant
permanent pool of water between run off events.
6.   “Developer” means any individual, subdivider, firm, association,
syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust, or any legal entity commencing
proceedings under this chapter to effect the development of land.
7.   “Development” means the improvement of land from its existing state or an
area of land improvement. Also includes construction of buildings, other
structures, impervious surfaces, and soil disturbance to the extent that peak
runoff rates and volumes are increased in a location where no such features
currently exist.
8.   “Drainage area” means an area of land contributing to stormwater run-off.
9.   “Drainage easement” means a legal right granted by a landowner to a
grantee allowing the use of private land for stormwater management purposes.
10.   “Erosion” means the process of detachment, transport, and deposition of
soil, sediment, or rock fragments by action of water, wind ice, or gravity.
11.   “Floodplain” means a flat or nearly flat land adjacent to a stream or
river that experiences occasional or periodic flooding.
12.   “Impervious surface” means an area that releases all or a large portion
of the precipitation that falls on it, except frozen soil. Conventional
rooftops, asphalt or concrete driveways, sidewalks, parking lots, and streets
are typical examples. Gravel driveways are considered impervious unless
specifically designed to encourage infiltration or storage of runoff.
13.   “Overflow path” means a path taken by stormwater runoff as a result of
flows exceeding the capacity of the underground drainage system or detention
basin. The path may include streets, channels, drainage ways, or areas of sheet
flows, and be located on public property or private property within an
easement.
14.   “Permeable pavement” means a system of consisting permeable pavers,
porous hot mix asphalt, or pervious Portland cement concrete, with storage
aggregate and underdrain, designed to manage stormwater.
15.   “Pre-developed condition” means hydraulic and hydrologic site
characteristics that occur prior to a proposed development, including natural
storage areas, drainage ways, drainage tiles, and highway drainage structures.
16.   “Regional stormwater management facilities” means facilities designed to
handle stormwater runoff from several lots which may include the entire
subdivision, or multiple sub divisions, and may include existing developed
areas, so long as the facility can hold the required capacity.
17.   “Site” means a lot, parcel, or tract of land, or portion thereof, where
development is occurring or has occurred and may or may not require additional
permits.
18.   “Storm sewer system” means facilities for the conveyance of stormwater
runoff, a series of conduits and appurtenances to accommodate frequent storms
not generating large peak discharges. These facilities usually include
conduits, street gutters, and swales.
19.   “Stormwater Management Plan” means a site plan, certified by an Iowa
licensed engineer, including materials, construction phasing, grading
activities, and methods used for mitigation of increased stormwater runoff from
the site, approved by the City Engineer.
20.   “SUDAS” means the current version of the Statewide Urban Design and
Specifications.
171.03   AREAS REQUIRING STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
A Stormwater Management Plan shall be required for:
1.   All new residential subdivisions and re-subdivisions larger than two acres
in size, and all new commercial and industrial subdivisions and developments of
any size. Commercial and industrial development taking place on existing
platted lots larger than one-half acre in size, shall comply with this chapter
by submitting a Stormwater Management Plan. Phased developments under two acres
for subdivisions as a part of a larger development must comply as well.
2.   Other developments may be required to submit a Stormwater Management Plan
at the discretion of the City Engineer if topography of the site and planned
improvements may have an adverse effect on downstream runoff. No subdivision or
development plan will be approved unless adequate drainage will be provided to
an appropriate storm sewer, drainage watercourse, or stormwater facility.
171.04   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
The Stormwater Management Plan shall include, but not be limited to, the
following information:
1.   Peak discharges for pre-developed and developed conditions based upon the
design storms.
2.   Individual parameters used for determining discharges shall be listed.
3.   Hydraulic capacity of storm sewer inlets, pipes, open channels, or other
means of conveying water.
4.   Stormwater management facility design with capacity listed.
5.   Control structure/outlet design.
6.   Review of existing or proposed downstream conveyance capacities.
7.   The SCS TR-55 computerized runoff volume program or other technically
proven method as allowed by SUDAS shall be utilized for runoff calculations.
171.05   PLAN DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
The design requirements of the Stormwater Management Plan shall include:
1.   Development requiring stormwater management shall be required to detain
the difference between the five-year pre-developed storm and the 50-year
developed storm.
2.   The maximum release rate for storms to an expected return frequency of 50
years shall be the five-year pre-developed storm. A safe overflow path shall be
designed for storms exceeding the capacity of the detention basin.
3.   Regional stormwater facilities preferred.
4.   For residential developments, stormwater detention other than individual
bio retention is not allowed within any front or side yard setbacks by the
Zoning Regulations or within 25 feet from the estimated rear building line.
5.   Dry-bottomed detention basins shall be oversized by 10 percent to help
offset anticipated sedimentation.
6.   Maximum side slopes of the detention basins shall not exceed three and
one-half to one.
7.   Provisions shall be made to keep bottom of the detention basin dry unless
a permanent pond or lake is being utilized for detention.
8.   Follow Iowa Standard Management Manual design guidelines for stormwater
management practices as applicable.
171.06   SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF PLAN.
A site plan shall be a required attachment to a proposed Stormwater Management
Plan, all of which is to be submitted to the City Building Inspector and City
Engineer for review. The Stormwater Management Plan, including proposed
stormwater detention facilities, shall be reviewed and approved by City Council
prior to issuance of any building permit for the proposed development. The City
may inspect the site at any time to determine compliance with this chapter.
Upon determination that a site is not in compliance with this chapter, the City
may issue an order to comply. The order shall describe the problems, specify a
completion date, and indicate the penalties to be assessed for further
noncompliance.
171.07   OWNERSHIP BY CITY.
The City is under no obligation to accept ownership of any facility for
regional stormwater management. The conditions for City ownership will be
reviewed on a case-by-case basis. If the City elects to obtain ownership of the
facility, the property owner shall dedicate to the City any property on which
public stormwater detention basins will be located. Ingress and egress
easements for maintenance of public facilities shall be provided prior to final
approval,
171.08   PRIVATE OWNERSHIP.
For sites on which privately owned stormwater detention facilities are located,
the property owner will be responsible for the following, or deem a housing
association, responsible for the following:
1.   All future grading, repairs, and maintenance.
2.   Maintenance of the minimum stormwater detention capacity, as originally
designed.
3.   Maintenance of the detention basin contrail structures and discharge pipes
to insure the maximum theoretical design release rate is not increased.
4.   The property owner shall not pail fill material or erect any buildings,
obstructions, or other improvements on the area reserved for stormwater
detention purposes, unless approved in writing by the City.
171.09   FURTHER REQUIREMENTS.
Compliance with this chapter does not relieve the developer of other
responsibilities relating to stormwater discharge. This includes but is not
limited to NPDES Stormwater Discharge Permits regulated by the Iowa Department
of Natural Resources, and other State and federal requirements.
CHAPTER 172
STORM WATER UTILTY AND CHARGES
 
172.01 Purpose                  172.05 Rates
172.02 Creation of Utility      172.06 Payment of Bills
172.03 Definitions              172.07 Responsibility for the Storm Water
                                System Management
172.04 Storm Water Utility Fund 172.08 Requirements for On-Site Storm Water
                                Systems
 
172.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a policy and procedure for managing
and controlling the quantity and quality of storm water runoff within the City
limits. The management shall include establishment of a storm water utility.
The Council finds that the operation and maintenance, and construction, of the
City’s storm and surface water drainage system should be funded through
charging users of property which may connect or discharge directly or
indirectly into the storm and surface water drainage system. This will provide
a means of revenue to be used for whatever aspects of this requirement are
deemed appropriate by the City. This includes, not limited to the construction,
operation and maintenance facilities, detention, and retention basins, storm
water sewers, inlets, ditches and drains, and cleaning of streets.
172.02   CREATION OF UTILITY.
1.   The function of the Storm Water Management and Drainage Systems Utility
(hereinafter referred to as “Storm Water Utility”) within the City to provide
for the safe and efficient capture of storm water runoff, to mitigate the
damaging effects of storm water runoff, correction of storm water problems, to
fund activities of storm water management, and includes design, planning,
regulations, education, coordination, construction, operations, maintenance,
inspection and enforcement activities.
2.   There is hereby established a Storm Water Utility within the City, which
shall be responsible for creating revenue for storm water management throughout
the City’s corporate limits, and shall provide for the management, protection,
control, regulation, use, and enhancement of storm water systems and
facilities. Such utility shall be under the operational direction of the Public
Works Director. The corporate limits of the City, as increased from time to
time, shall constitute the boundaries of the Storm Water Utility district.
3.   The City shall establish a Storm Water Utility Fund in the City budget and
accounting system, separate and apart from is General Fund, Water Fund, and
Sewer Fund for the purpose of dedicating and protecting all funding applicable
to the purposes and responsibilities of the utility.
172.03   DEFINITIONS.
1.   Adjustment: means a modification in a commercial or industrial property’s
storm water service fee for certain activities that impact storm water runoff
or impact the City’s costs of providing storm water management.
2.   Commercial and/or industrial properties: means all properties not
encompassed by the definition of residential properties or muti residential
properties. Commercial and/or industrial properties include: commercial
property ;industrial property; institutional property; government property;
churches; hospitals; schools; transient rentals; parking lots; federal State
and local properties; and any other property not mentioned in the lists of
properties.
3.   Developed agricultural properties: means a lot or parcel of real estate
used as a farm which may contain one or more dwelling units and/or building
structures but does not include undeveloped properties.
4.   Developed property: means property altered from its natural state by the
construction or installation of a structure , thus increasing the amount of
rainwater or surface run off on that property.
5.   Director: means the director of the Storm Water Utility.
6.   Exempt property: includes the public streets, alleys and sidewalks; all
undeveloped properties.
7.   Ground water: means sub-surface water or water stored in pores, cracks,
and crevices in the ground below the water table.
8.   Impervious area: means the number of square feet of hard surfaced areas
that either prevent or resist the entry of water into soil surface, as if
entered under natural conditions as undeveloped property, and/or cause water to
run off the surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow from
that present under natural conditions as undeveloped property. This includes
but not limited to roofs, roof extensions, patios, decks, porches sidewalks,
pavement athletic courts.
9.   Multi-unit properties: means all properties that have more than one living
unit on the property. Multi-unit properties include; duplexes, apartment
buildings, condominiums, and mobile home parks.
10.   Occupant: means the person residing or doing business on the property. In
a shared dwelling or office situation, the adult legally responsible for the
management or condition of the property shall be responsible.
11.   Owner: means the legal owner of record as shown on the tax rolls of the
City of Durant except where there is a recorded land sale contract, the
purchases thereunder shall be deemed the owner.
12.   Residential property: means all single-family properties within the City.
13.   Storm water: means stormwater runoff snowmelt runoff, and surface runoff
and drainage.
14.   Storm water management: means a system that addresses the issues of
drainage management, flooding, and environmental quality ( pollution, erosion,
and sedimentation) of receiving rivers, streams, lakes, ponds.
15.   Storm sewer: means the control and use of storm-water runoff. It includes
planning for runoff, maintaining stormwater systems, and regulating the
collection, storage, and movement of stormwater. Stormwater management also
considers drainage in the design of cities and developments.
16.   Surface water: means water bodies and any temporarily residing on the
surface of the ground including lakes, reservoirs, rivers, ponds, streams,
puddles, channelized flow.
17.   Undeveloped property: describes land in its unaltered natural state of
which has been modified to such minimal degree as to have a hydrologic response
comparable to land in an unaltered natural state shall be deemed undeveloped.
Undeveloped land shall have minimal concrete pavement, asphalt or compacted
gravel surfaces or structures which create an impervious surface.
18.   Unit: means each property including households, each place of commerce/
education/government/religion, or each industry , whether a single building on
a single lot, or In a multiple use building on a single lot, or multiple
complexes on a lot. Multiple residential units in one building shall be charged
the monthly rate per unit to the party responsible for the monthly utility
bill.
19.   Users: means any person who uses property that maintains connection to,
discharges to, or otherwise services from the City storm water management. The
occupant of any habitable property is deemed the user. If the property is not
occupied, then the owner shall be deemed the user.
172.04   STORM WATER UTILITY FUND.
Funding the Storm Water Utility’s activities may include, but are not limited
to: storm water service charges; storm water permit and inspection fees; other
funds or income obtained from federal, State, locals sources as well as private
grants and loans. All service charges and all sources of revenue generated by
or on behalf of the Storm Water Utility shall be deposited in a Storm Water
Utility Fund and used exclusively for management of the Storm Water Utility.
Storm Water Utility Budget. The City shall adopt an operating and capital
budget for the Storm Water Utility each fiscal year. The budget shall set forth
revenues for such fiscal year and estimated expenditures for operations,
maintenance, improvements, replacement and debt service.
172.05   RATES.
Each user shall pay for storm and surface water drainage system service
provided by the City. The rates for the operation and maintenance of the storm
water management facilities shall be collected by imposing a monthly rate on
each residential, commercial, and industrial user within the City. The service
charges shall be billed as part of the combined service account which mans a
customer service account for the provision of two or more utility services. The
Council may adopt rules, charges, rates, and fees for the use of the City’s
storm and surface water system, and for services provided by the City relating
to that system. Such rules may include delinquency, interest charges, and
penalties. Such charges and fees shall be just and equitable upon the actual
cost of operations, maintenance, acquisition, extension and replacement of the
City’s system, the costs of bond repayment, regulation administration, and
service for the City. The following are rates as of:
 
YEAR Beginning 7/1/ MONTHLY FEE/PARCEL ANNUAL FEE/PARCEL TOTAL ANNUAL REVENUES
2024                                                     (926 parcels)
1. 07/01/2024       $1.00              $12.00            $11,112.00
2. 07/01/2025       $1.50              $18.00            $16,668.00
3. 07/01/2026       $2.00              $24.00            $22,224.00
4. 07/01/2027       $2.50              $30.00            $27,780.00
4. 07/01/2028       $3.00              $36.00            $33,336.00
 
172.06   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All Storm Water Utility charges shall be due and payable under the same terms
and conditions provided for payment of combined service accounts as contained
in Section
92.03 Durant Code of Ordinances. All City services may be discontinued in
accordance with the provisions
92.04 if the combined account becomes delinquent, and the provisions contained
in
92.07 relating to lien exemptions and lien notices shall also apply.
172.07   RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE STORM WATER SYSTEM MANAGEMENT.
1.   The City storm water management and drainage system consists of all
rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage ways,
channels, ditches, swales storm sewers, culverts inlets, catch basins, pipes
head walls and other structures, natural or manmade, within the political
boundaries of the City which control and/or convey storm water through which
the City intentionally diverts surface waters from its public streets and
properties. The City owns or has legal access for the purpose of operations,
maintenance, and improvements to those segments of this system which;
   A.   Are located within public streets, rights of ways and easements.
   B.   Are subject to easement s of rights of entry; rights of access; rights
of use, or other permeant provisions for adequate access for operations,
maintenance, and or improvement systems and facilities, or
   C.   Are located on public lands to which the City as adequate access for
operations, maintenance, and or improvement of systems and facilities.
Operation and maintenance of storm water systems and facilities that located on
private property or public property not owned by the City and for which there
has been no public dedication of such systems and facilities for operations,
maintenance, and improvement of systems and facilities shall be and remain
legal responsibility of the property owner.
2.   It is the intent of this section to protect the public health, safety, and
general welfare of all properties and persons in general, but not create any
special duty or relationship with an individual person or to any specified
property within or without the boundaries of the City. The City expressly
reserves the tight to assert all available immunities and defenses in any
action seeking impose monetary damages upon the City, its officers, employees
and agents arising out of any alleged failure or breach of duty or relationship
as may now exist or hereafter be created.
172.08   REQUIREMENTS FOR ON-SITE STORM WATER SYSTEMS.
All provision shall be followed under City Code
Chapter 166.
(Chapter 172 – Ord. 2024-02 – May 24 Supp.)
 
