Code of Ordinances
of the City of
Dyersville, Iowa
Adopted September 8, 2020, by Ordinance No. 833
 
Prepared By:   Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
 
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                          ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds   Ord. No. Date     Subject
                                                      Deleted Property From
Oct-20    10.26                     834      9-21-20  Consolidated Dyersville
                                                      Economi Development
                                                      District
                                                      2020 Addition to the
Jan-21    10.27                     835      10-19-20 Consolidated Dyersville
                                                      Economic Development
                                                      District
Jul-21    Ch. 75A                   836      6-7-21   All-Terrain Vehicles
Oct-21    91.05                     837      7-6-21   Meter Purchase Prices
          92.02(3)                  838      7-6-21   Bulk Water Charges
          165.04; 165.05; 165.06    839      8-2-21   Floodplain
          Not Codified              840      8-2-21   Clean Zone
Jan-22    Ch. 3                     841      12-6-21  Ward Precinct Boundaries
                                                      Deleted Property from the
Jul-22    10.28                     842      5-16-22  Consolidated Dyersville
                                                      Economic Development
                                                      District
          55.21                     843      6-6-22   Disposal of Pet Waste
          Ch. 165                   844      6-6-22   Reclassifying to PUD
          Ch. 75A                   845      6-20-22  All-Terrain Vehicles
                                                      June 2022 Addition to the
          10.29                     846      6-20-22  Consolidated Dyersville
                                                      Economic Development
                                                      District
Oct-22    Not Codified              847      7-18-22  Clean Zone
                                                      Deleted Property From
          10.30                     848      8-1-22   Consolidated Dyersville
                                                      Economic Development
                                                      District
                                                      September 2022 Addition
                                                      to the Consolidated
          10.31                     849      9-6-22   Dyersville Economic
                                                      Development District
                                                      (Dubuque Co.)
                                                      September 2022 Addition
                                                      to the Consolidated
          10.32                     850      9-6-22   Dyersville Economic
                                                      Development District
                                                      (Delaware Co.)
Jan-23    47.05                     851      10-3-22  Park Regulations
          Ch. 105; Ch. 106; Ch. 107 852      10-17-22 Solid Waste Disposal
Apr-23    91.05                     837      7-6-21   Meter Purchase Price
                                    853               Not Adopted
          92.08                     854      3-20-23  Customer Deposits for
                                                      Water Service
Oct-23    127.02                    855      8-21-23  Adult Entertainment
                                                      Facilities
          23.01                     856      8-7-23   Planning and Zoning
                                                      Commission
          165.03.03(C); 165.03.03   857      8-7-23   Board of Adjustment
          (C)(i)
Nov-24    110.04                    858      10-16-23 Natural Gas Franchise Fee
          111.11                    859      10-16-23 Electric Franchise Fee
                                                      Deleted Property From
          10.33                     860      12-18-23 Consolidated Dyersville
                                                      Economic Development
                                                      District
          92.02(2)                  861      4-15-24  Water Rates
          99.01(2)                  862      4-15-24  Sewer Service Charge
                                                      Rates
          Ch. 165                   863      5-6-24   Rezoning to R-1
                                                      Deleted Property From
          10.34                     864      10-7-24  Consolidated Dyersville
                                                      Economic Development
                                                      District
                                                      November 2024 Addition to
          10.35                     865      11-4-24  the Consolidated
                                                      Dyersville Economic
                                                      Development District
Mar-25    69.13; 70.03(11)          866      3-3-25   Parking in City-Owned
                                                      Parking Lots
                                                      Deleted Property From
          10.36                     867      3-17-25  Consolidated Dyersville
                                                      Economic Development
                                                      District
                                                      2025 Addition to the
Jul-25    10.37                     868      4-21-25  Consolidated Dyersville
                                                      Economic Development
                                                      District
                                                      2025 Addition to the
          10.38                     869      4-21-25  Consolidated Dyersville
                                                      Economic Development
                                                      District
          Ch. 165                   870      5-5-25   Rezoning to C-2
          Ch. 165                   871      6-2-25   Rezoning to R-3
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
   This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Dyersville, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the
Code of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances
unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
Council or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases
used herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise
in another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would
be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
   1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   2.   “City” means the City of Dyersville, Iowa.
   3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Dyersville, Iowa.
   4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
   5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Dyersville, Iowa.
   6.   “Council” means the city council of Dyersville, Iowa.
   7.   “County” means Dubuque and/or Delaware County, Iowa.
   8.   “May” confers a power.
   9.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution or motion.
   10.   “Must” states a requirement.
   11.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   12.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Dyersville, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
   13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   14.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   15.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   16.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge
of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   17.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   18.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
   19.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
   The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if
not inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power
and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the
rights, privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and
convenience of its residents, and each and every provision of this Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and
the performance of the foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
   The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
   When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to
have been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person
by whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
   Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
   All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City. When
subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section, subsection, paragraph, or
any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and
printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of
such subsequent ordinances until such time as this code and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances. The
repeal of an ordinance or section of this code does not revive an ordinance or
section of this code previously repealed, nor affect any rights which have
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, or any proceedings commenced
under or by virtue of the ordinance or section of this code repealed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
   If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
   Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the
Council or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does
not specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$105.00 but not to exceed $855.00. The court may order imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days in lieu of a fine or in addition to a fine.† 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 4.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Dyersville, Iowa.† 2
 
Notes
2 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 387 adopting a charter for the City was passed and
  approved by the Council on July 3, 1972.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of two Council Members elected at large and one Council
Member from each of three wards as established by this Code of Ordinances,
elected for overlapping terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
   The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the
official records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies
of the charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1[3])
CHAPTER 3
WARDS AND PRECINCTS
 
3.01 Division Into Wards 3.04 Precinct 3
3.02 Precinct 1          3.05 Precinct 4
3.03 Precinct 2
 
3.01   DIVISION INTO WARDS.
   The City of Dyersville, Iowa, is divided into three wards. Ward 1 will be
comprised of Precincts 1 and 2. Ward 2 will be comprised of Precinct 3. Ward 3
will be comprised of Precinct 4.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 372.13[7])
3.02   PRECINCT 1.
   That part of the City located in Delaware County shall be in Precinct 1.
3.03   PRECINCT 2.
   Beginning on the Dubuque County line at the Southwest corner of Section 31,
Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque County, Iowa; thence
north along the Dubuque County line to the West Quarter corner of Section 30,
Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., thence east to the Center of
said Section 30; thence continuing east to the centerline of 2nd Street NE and
Christoph Road; thence south along the centerline of 2nd Street NE to the
centerline of 1st Avenue East; thence east along said centerline to the
centerline of 3rd Street SE; thence south along said centerline to the
centerline of 4th Avenue SE; thence west along said centerline to the
centerline of 2nd Street SE; thence south along said centerline to the
centerline of 5th Avenue SE; thence westerly to the centerline of North Fork
Maquoketa River; thence southerly along said centerline of North Fork Maquoketa
River to the centerline of Bear Creek; thence northwesterly along said
centerline to the centerline of 3rd Street SW; thence southwesterly along said
centerline of 3rd Street SW and the centerline of Field of Dreams Way to the
west line of Section 31, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th P.M.,
Dubuque County, Iowa, and the Dubuque County line; thence south along the
Dubuque County line to the Southwest corner of said Section 31, and the point
of beginning.
3.04   PRECINCT 3.
   Beginning at the East Quarter corner of Section 30, Township 89 North, Range
2 West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque County, Iowa; thence east along the north line
of the Southwest Quarter of Section 29, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the
5th P.M., to the southwest corner of Lot 1 in Mark Meyer Acres, Dubuque County,
Iowa; thence northwesterly along the west line of said Lot 1 to the northwest
corner of said Lot 1; thence north to the northwest corner of Lot 1 in K.J.
Bries Subdivision, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence north to the southwest corner
of Lot 2 in Scherrman Acres, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence east to the southeast
corner of Lot 1 in Scherrman Acres, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence south to the
southeast corner of Lot 1 of Lot 2 in the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest
Quarter of said Section 29; thence west to the northeast corner of Lot 1 in
K.J. Bries Subdivision, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence south to the southeast
corner of Lot 5 in Nickol Business Park, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence east to
the northeast corner of Lot 1 in Mark Meyer Acres, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence
southerly along the east line of said Lot 1 to the southeast corner of said Lot
1; thence east to the southwest corner of Lot 2 in H.M. Jasper 2nd Addition to
the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence north to the northwest
corner of said Lot 2; thence east to the northeast corner of said Lot 2; thence
south to the southeast corner of said Lot 2 and the north line of the Southwest
Quarter of said Section 29; thence east to the Center of said Section 29;
thence north to the northwest corner of the Southwest Quarter of the Northeast
Quarter of said Section 29; thence east to the northeast corner of the
Southwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 29; thence south
along the east line of the Southwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of said
Section 29 to the south line of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 2 of Lot 1 in the
Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 29; thence easterly
along said south line to the southwest corner of Lot 8 in Valley Oaks
Subdivision in the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence north to
the northwest corner of said Lot 8; thence east to the northeast corner of said
Lot 8; thence south to the southeast corner of said Lot 8; thence south to the
northerly right of way line of Golf Course Road; thence northeasterly along
said northerly right of way line to a point approximately 100 feet east of the
west line of the Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 28,
Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque County, Iowa; thence
south to the centerline of Golf Course Road; thence east along said centerline
to the northwest corner of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of the Southwest Quarter of the
Northeast Quarter of said Section 28; thence south to the southwest corner of
said Lot 1 of Lot 1; thence east to the southeast corner of said Lot 1 of Lot
1; thence north to the northeast corner of said Lot 1 of Lot 1; thence east to
the northwest corner of Lot 1 in the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter
of said Section 28; thence south to the southwest corner of said Lot 1; thence
east to the southeast corner of said Lot 1; thence north to the northeast
corner of said Lot 1; thence east to the southwest corner of the East Half of
the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 27, Township 89
North, Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque County, Iowa; thence north to the
northwest corner of the East Half of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest
Quarter of Section 22, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque
County, Iowa; thence east to the northeast corner of the Southwest Quarter of
the Southwest Quarter of Section 23, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th
P.M., Dubuque County, Iowa; thence south to the southeast corner of the
Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 26, Township 89 North,
Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque County, Iowa; thence west along the south
line of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 26 to
the northeast corner of Lot 1 in the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter
of said Section 26; thence southeasterly to the southeast corner of Lot 1 in
the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 26; thence west
to the southeast corner of Lot 1 in Trinity Acres, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence
north to the northeast corner of said Lot 1; thence northwesterly along the
northerly line of said Lot 1 to the northwest corner of said Lot 1; thence west
to the southwest corner of the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of
Section 27, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque County,
Iowa; thence to the southwest corner of Lot 1 in the subdivision of the
Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 22 and the Northwest
Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 27, all in Township 89 North, Range
2 West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque County, Iowa; thence easterly to the southeast
corner of said Lot 1; thence north to the northeast corner of said Lot 1;
thence northwesterly along the northerly line of said Lot 1 to the northwest
corner of said Lot 1; thence south to the southeast corner of the Southeast
Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 22; thence west to the
southwest corner of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of said
Section 22; thence south to the southeast corner of the Southwest Quarter of
the Northwest Quarter of said Section 27; thence west to the southwest corner
of the Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 28; Township 89
North, Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., thence north to the southerly right of way
line of Golf Course Road; thence southwesterly along said southerly right of
way line to Sharwood Court; thence southerly along the centerline of Golf
Course Road to the northeast corner of the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast
Quarter of Section 32, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque
County, Iowa; thence south to the north right of way line of U.S. Highway 20;
thence westerly along said right of way line to the west right of way line of A
Street; thence north to the southeast corner of Lot 2 in Burkle Industrial Park
2nd Addition to the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence west to
the southwest corner of said Lot 2; thence south to the northwest corner of Lot
2 in Burkle Industrial Park 3rd Addition to the City of Dyersville, Dubuque
County, Iowa; thence east to the centerline of A Street; thence south to the
centerline of U.S. Highway 20; thence west to the centerline of U.S. Highway 52
and Iowa Highway 136; thence north along the centerline of said U.S. Highway 52
and Iowa Highway 136 to the centerline of 5th Avenue SE; thence west along said
centerline to the centerline of 9th Street SE; thence north along said
centerline to the centerline of 4th Avenue SE; thence west along said
centerline to the centerline of 3rd Street SE; thence north along said
centerline to the centerline of 1st Avenue East; thence west along said
centerline to the centerline of 2nd Street NE/Christoph Road; thence north
along said centerline to the north line of Lot 881 in the City of Dyersville,
Dubuque County, Iowa; thence east to the northeast corner of Lot 1 in Ken
Oberbroeckling Acres, City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence south to
the north line of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 30; thence east to the
East Quarter corner of said Section 30 and the point of beginning.
3.05   PRECINCT 4.
   Beginning at the Southwest corner of Section 31, Township 89 North, Range 2
West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque County, Iowa; thence north to the centerline of
Field of Dreams Way; thence westerly along the centerline of Field of Dreams
Way and the centerline 3rd Street SW to the centerline of Bear Creek; thence
easterly along said centerline of Bear Creek to the centerline of the North
Fork Maquoketa River; thence northerly along said centerline of the North Fork
Maquoketa River to a point westerly of the intersection of 5th Avenue SE and
2nd Street SE; thence northeasterly to said intersection; thence north along
the centerline 2nd Street SE to the centerline of 4th Avenue SE; thence east
along said centerline to the centerline of 9th Street SE; thence south along
said centerline to the centerline of 5th Avenue SE; thence east along said
centerline to the centerline of U.S. Highway 52 and Iowa Highway 136; thence
southerly along said centerline to the centerline of U.S. Highway 20; thence
east along the centerline of said U.S. Highway 20 to the centerline of
Sandstone Drive; thence south to the northeast corner of Lot 7 of Lot 2 in
Burkle Commercial Park, City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence
westerly along the northerly line of said Lot 7 of Lot 2 to the northwest
corner of said Lot 7 of Lot 2; thence westerly along the northerly line of Oak
Ridge Subdivision to the easterly right of way line of Oak Street; thence north
to the southerly line of Lot 1 of the North 37.69 acres of the Northeast
Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 5, Township 88 North, Range 2
West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque County, Iowa, lying south of the highway; thence
westerly and northerly to the northwest corner of said Lot 1 and the southerly
right of way line of U.S. Highway 20; thence west along said right of way line
to the east line of Lot 1 in the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of
said Section 5; thence south to the northwest corner of Lot 1 in Ernzen
Addition to the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence easterly to
the northeast corner of said Lot 1; thence southerly along the easterly line of
said Lot 1 to the north line of Castle Hill, City of Dyersville, Dubuque
County, Iowa; thence easterly along the northerly line of said Castle Hill to
the northeast corner of said Castle Hill; thence easterly to the northeast
corner of Castle Hill Plat 2, City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence
southerly along the easterly line of Castle Hill Plat 2 and Castle Hill Plat 3,
City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa, to Olde Castle Road; thence
northwesterly along the southwesterly line of said Castle Hill Plat 3 and
Castle Hill to the southeast corner of Mayne Place, Dubuque County, Iowa;
thence northerly to the northeast corner of said Mayne Place; thence
northwesterly to the northwest corner of Lot 2 of the Northeast Quarter of the
Southwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 88 North, Range 2 West of the 5th
P.M., Dubuque County, Iowa; thence north to the southeast corner of the
Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter in said Section 5; thence westerly
along the south line of the said Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter to
the southwesterly corner of Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of the Southwest
Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 88 North, Range 2 West
of the 5th P.M., City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence northwesterly
to the north corner of Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 9D in Frank Olberding Subdivision,
Dubuque County, Iowa; thence southwesterly along the northwesterly line of said
Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 9D to the centerline of Olde Castle Road; thence
northwesterly to the north line of the South Half of the Southeast Quarter of
the Northeast Quarter of Section 6, Township 88 North, Range 2 West of the 5th
P.M.; thence west along said north line to the westerly right of way line of
Iowa Highway 136; thence southwesterly along said right of way line to the
southeast corner of Lot 1 of Putz Subdivision, City of Dyersville, Dubuque
County, Iowa; thence northwesterly along the southerly line of said Lot 1 to
the southwest corner of said Lot 1; thence north to the southeast corner of Lot
2 in Allan Farm No. 2, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence west to the southwest
corner of said Lot 2; thence north to the North Quarter corner of Section 6,
Township 88 North, Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque County, Iowa; thence
west along the north line of said Section 6 to the Southwest corner of Section
31, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque County, Iowa, and
the point of beginning.long 2nd Avenue SE to the intersection with the easterly
City Limit line. Everything south of the described line will be in Precinct 4.
(Ch. 3 - Ord. 841 - Jan. 22 Supp.)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
4.01 Municipal Infraction    4.04 Civil Citations
4.02 Environmental Violation 4.05 Alternative Relief
4.03 Penalties               4.06 Alternative Penalties
 
4.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
   A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein
adopted by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty
required by the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically
provided under State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious
misdemeanor, or a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code
of Iowa, is a municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided
herein.† 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
3 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
  Ordinances, see Section 1.14.
4.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
   A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of
Iowa or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the
Department of Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental
violation. However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable
until the City has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding
the violation or to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
   2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
   3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
4.03   PENALTIES.
   A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
      A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
      B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
   2.   Special Civil Penalties.
      A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each
day a violation exists or continues.
      B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
         (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the
time that the violation begins.
         (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
4.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
   Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may
issue a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy
of the citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
   1.   The name and address of the defendant.
   2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
   3.   The location and time of the infraction.
   4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
   5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
   6.   The time and place of court appearance.
   7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
4.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[9])
4.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
   This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal
citation for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal
penalties are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit
the authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances
by criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[12])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings
 
5.01   OATHS.
   The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
   2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Dyersville as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
   3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
      A.   Mayor
      B.   City Clerk
      C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
   Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
   1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
   2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
   3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])
   4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[1][a][3])
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open
to examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 & 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
   Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13)
5.06   MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
   1.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date, and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
   2.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   3.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time
and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   4.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting
and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
   5.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
   6.   Electronic Meetings. A meeting may be conducted by electronic means
only in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or
impractical and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect,
in any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services
to be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
   1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
   2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
   3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
   4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
   5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
   6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has
an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee
was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
   7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
   8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
   9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
   10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a
cumulative total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
   11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
   12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3m])
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
   An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a
resignation in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and
considered. A person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for
appointment to the same office during the time for which the person was elected
if, during that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal must be by written order. The order must
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10   VACANCIES.
   A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled
in accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11   GIFTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
   All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
   Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 25 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
   The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
   Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy.
The petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5 & 45.6)
6.05   FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
   The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of
validity thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the
effect of such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of
such petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by
the appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
   The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on
the ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules
and regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
   The City Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is
responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
   To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following
shall apply:
   1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any
City officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If
any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
   2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
   3.   Petty Cash Fund. The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty cash
fund not to exceed $25.00 for the payment of small claims for minor purchases,
collect-on-delivery transportation charges, and small fees customarily paid at
the time of rendering a service, for which payments the finance officer shall
obtain some form of receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or
agent. At such time as the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the
finance officer shall draw a check for replenishment in the amount of the
accumulated expenditures and said check and supporting detail shall be
submitted to the Council as a claim in the usual manner for claims and charged
to the proper funds and accounts. It shall not be used for salary payments or
other personal services or personal expenses.
   4.   Change Fund. The finance officer is authorized to draw a check on the
Utility Fund for establishing a change fund in the amount of $100.00 for the
purpose of making change without commingling other funds to meet the
requirements of the office. Said change fund shall be in the custody of the
finance officer, who shall maintain the integrity of the fund.
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
   There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
   2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
   3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[2])
   4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[3])
   5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited
by State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[4])
   6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
      A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
      B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[5])
   7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of
each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
   The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Proposal Prepared. The City Administrator is responsible for
preparation of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council
and adoption by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and
Council.
   2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other
administrative agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and
administer budgets must submit their budget proposals to the City Administrator
for inclusion in the proposed City budget at such time and in such form as
required by the Council.
   3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer and City Administrator shall
submit the completed budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as
directed by the Council.
   4.   Resolution Establishing Maximum Property Tax Dollars. The Council shall
adopt a resolution establishing the total maximum property tax dollars that may
be certified for levy that includes taxes for City government purposes under
Code of Iowa Section 384.1, for the City’s trust and agency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.6, Subsection 1, for the City’s emergency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.8, and for the levies authorized under Code of Iowa Section
384.12, Subsections 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, and 21, but excluding additions
approved at election under Code of Iowa Section 384.12, Subsection 19.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.15A)
      A.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
resolution before the date for adoption of the resolution and shall publish
notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days prior to the
hearing in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
      B.   If the City has an internet site, the notice shall also be posted
and clearly identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning
on the date of the newspaper publication or public posting, as applicable.
Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on one or more
social media applications, the public hearing notice or an electronic link to
the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such account on the same day
as the publication of the notice. All of the following shall be included in the
notice:
         (1)   The sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property taxes
certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection and the
current fiscal year’s combined property tax levy rate for such amount that is
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
         (2)   The effective tax rate calculated using the sum of the current
fiscal year’s actual property taxes certified for levy under the levies
specified in this subsection, applicable to taxable property in the City other
than property used and assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
         (3)   The sum of the proposed maximum property tax dollars that may be
certified for levy for the budget year under the levies specified in this
subsection and the proposed combined property tax levy rate for such amount
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
         (4)   If the proposed maximum property tax dollars specified under
Subparagraph (3) exceed the current fiscal year’s actual property tax dollars
certified for levy specified in Subparagraph (1), a statement of the major
reasons for the increase.
Proof of publication shall be filed with and preserved by the County Auditor.
The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the public hearing
notice for cities and the form for the resolution to be adopted by the Council
under Paragraph C of this subsection.
      C.   At the public hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written
objections from any resident or property owner of the City. After all
objections have been received and considered, the Council may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed maximum property tax dollar amount for inclusion in the
resolution and shall adopt the resolution and file the resolution with the
County Auditor as required under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3.
      D.   If the sum of the maximum property tax dollars for the budget year
specified in the resolution under the levies specified in this subsection
exceeds 102 percent of the sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property
taxes certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection, the
Council shall be required to adopt the resolution by a two-thirds majority of
the membership of the Council.
      E.   If the City has an internet site, in addition to filing the
resolution with the Auditor under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3,
the adopted resolution shall be posted and clearly identified on the City’s
internet site for public viewing within 10 days of approval by the Council. The
posted resolution for a budget year shall continue to be accessible for public
viewing on the internet site along with resolutions posted for all subsequent
budget years.
   5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may
make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
   6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until adoption of the resolution
required under Subsection 4 of this section, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before March 31 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice.  Proof of publication of the notice under
this subsection and a copy of the resolution adopted under Subsection 4 of this
section must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
   7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that
the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days
before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number
of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
   8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt,
by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing or the applicable amount specified in the resolution adopted
under Subsection 4 of this section. Two copies each of the detailed budget as
adopted and of the tax certificate must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
   1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.2[384, 388])
   2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.3[384, 388])
   3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
   4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
   The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
   1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
   2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
   3.   Checks. Checks shall be prenumbered and signed by the Clerk following
Council approval, except as provided by Subsection 5 hereof.
   4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
   5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize
the Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not
paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
   6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
   1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
   2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. A copy of the annual report must be filed
with the Auditor of State not later than December 1 of each year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
 
8.01 Purpose                        8.06 Applications
8.02 Definitions                    8.07 Approval
8.03 Period of Partial Exemption    8.08 Exemption Repealed
8.04 Amounts Eligible for Exemption 8.09 Dual Exemptions Prohibited
8.05 Limitations
 
8.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from
property taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the
new construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities,
warehouses, and distribution centers.
8.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first year
for which the exemption is received.
   2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used primarily for
the storage of goods that are intended for subsequent shipment to retail
outlets. Distribution center does not mean a building or structure used
primarily to store raw agricultural products, used primarily by a manufacturer
to store goods to be used in the manufacturing process, used primarily for the
storage of petroleum products, or used for the retail sale of goods.
   3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and includes new
buildings and structures that are constructed as additions to existing
buildings and structures. New construction does not include reconstruction of
an existing building or structure that does not constitute complete replacement
of an existing building or structure or refitting of an existing building or
structure unless the reconstruction of an existing building or structure is
required due to economic obsolescence and the reconstruction is necessary to
implement recognized industry standards for the manufacturing and processing of
specific products and the reconstruction is required for the owner of the
building or structure to continue competitively to manufacture or process those
products, which determination shall receive prior approval from the City
Council.
   4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of buildings
devoted primarily to research and development activities, including (but not
limited to) the design and production or manufacture of prototype products for
experimental use and corporate research services that do not have a primary
purpose of providing on-site services to the public.
   5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public warehouse
for the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the Code of
Iowa, except that it does not mean a building or structure used primarily to
store raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at retail.
8.03   PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.
   The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five years. The exemption shall also apply to the acquisition
of or improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real estate pursuant
to Section 427A.1[1e] of the Code of Iowa, unless the machinery or equipment is
part of the normal replacement or operating process to maintain or expand the
existing operational status.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.04   AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.
   The amount of actual value added, which is eligible to be exempt from
taxation, shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
   1.   For the first year, 75 percent.
   2.   For the second year, 60 percent.
   3.   For the third year, 45 percent.
   4.   For the fourth year, 30 percent.
   5.   For the fifth year, 15 percent.
8.05   LIMITATIONS.
   The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of the
new construction added.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.06   APPLICATIONS.
   An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value
added for which an exemption is claimed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
   1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the
property with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in which
the value added is first assessed for taxation.
   2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.
8.07   APPROVAL.
A person may submit a proposal to the City Council to receive prior approval
for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. If the City Council
resolves to consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold a public
hearing thereon. Thereafter, at least 30 days after such hearing, the City
Council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for new
construction if the new construction is in conformance with City zoning. Such
prior approval shall not entitle the owner to exemption from taxation until the
new construction has been completed and found to be qualified real estate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
8.08   EXEMPTION REPEALED.
   When in the opinion of the City Council continuation of the exemption
granted by this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the City Council
may repeal this chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their
expiration.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)
8.09   DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.
A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property tax
exemption authorized by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.6)
CHAPTER 9
HOTEL/MOTEL TAX
 
9.01 Tax Imposed              9.04 Collection
9.02 Renting and Rent Defined 9.05 Restrictions on Use of Revenues
9.03 Effective Date of Tax
 
9.01   TAX IMPOSED.
   There is imposed a seven percent hotel and motel tax upon the gross receipts
from the renting of any and all rooms, apartments or sleeping quarters in any
hotel, motel, inn, public lodging house, rooming house or tourist court or in
any place where sleeping accommodations are furnished to transient guests for
rent, whether with or without meals. Said tax shall be imposed until repealed
by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 423A.4)
9.02   RENTING AND RENT DEFINED.
“Renting” and “rent,” as used in this chapter, include any kind of direct or
indirect charge for the use of rooms, apartments or sleeping quarters. However,
the tax imposed in this chapter does not apply to the gross receipts from the
renting of a room, apartment or sleeping quarters while rented by the same
person for a period of more than 31 consecutive days.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 423A.2)
9.03   EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX.
   The hotel and motel tax as set forth in this chapter shall be imposed on all
gross rent receipts received after January 1, 2002.
9.04   COLLECTION.
   The tax imposed in this chapter shall be remitted by the person or company
liable for same to the Iowa State Director of Revenue in the manner required by
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 423A.5A)
9.05   RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF REVENUES.
   The revenue derived from the tax imposed by this chapter shall be accounted
for as follows:
   1.   All revenue received by the City from the imposition of the hotel and
motel tax shall be deposited in the General Fund of the City.
   2.   At least 50 percent of the revenue derived from the hotel and motel tax
shall be spent for the acquisition of sites for, or constructing, improving,
enlarging, equipping, repairing, operating or maintaining recreational,
convention, cultural or entertainment facilities, including, but not limited
to, memorial buildings, halls and monuments, civic centers, convention
buildings, auditoriums, coliseums and parking areas or facilities located at
those recreational, convention, cultural or entertainment facilities, or the
payment of principal and interest on bonds or other evidence of indebtedness
issued by the City for those recreational, convention, cultural or
entertainment facilities, or for the promotion and encouragement of tourist and
convention business in the City and surrounding areas.
   3.   The remaining revenues may be spent by the City for any lawful purpose
for which revenues derived from ad valorem taxes may be expended.
CHAPTER 10
URBAN RENEWAL
                                        10.20 June 2018 Addition to the
10.01 Purpose                           Consolidated Dyersville Economic
                                        Development District
10.02 Northwest Dyersville Industrial   10.21 June 2018 Addition to the
Park Economic Development District      Consolidated Dyersville Economic
                                        Development District
10.03 Northeast Dyersville Industrial   10.22 Deleted Property From
Park Economic Development District      Consolidated Dyersville Economic
                                        Development District
10.04 Southeast Dyersville Industrial   10.23 July 2018 Addition to the
Park Economic Development District      Consolidated Dyersville Economic
                                        Development District
10.05 Dyersville Southwest Commercial   10.24 May 2019 Addition to the
Park Economic Development District      Consolidated Dyersville Economic
                                        Development District
10.06 1998 Addition to the Northeast    10.25 Dyersville Downtown Urban Renewal
Dyersville Industrial Park Economic     Area
Development District
10.07 2004 Addition to the Dyersville   10.26 Deleted Property From
Economic Development District           Consolidated Dyersville Economic
                                        Development District
10.08 2008 Addition to the Dyersville   10.27 2020 Addition to the Consolidated
Economic Development District           Dyersville Economic Development
                                        District
10.09 2009 Addition to the Dyersville   10.28 Deleted Property From
Economic Development District           Consolidated Dyersville Economic
                                        Development District
10.10 2012 Addition to the Dyersville   10.29 June 2022 Addition to the
Economic Development District           Consolidated Dyersville Economic
                                        Development District
10.11 2012 Addition to the Consolidated 10.30  Deleted Property From
Dyersville Economic Development         Consolidated Dyersville Economic
District                                Development District
10.12 2013 Addition to the Consolidated 10.31 September 2022 Addition to the
Dyersville Economic Development         Consolidated Dyersville Economic
District                                Development District (Dubuque Co.)
10.13 2016 Addition to the Consolidated 10.32 September 2022 Addition to the
Dyersville Economic Development         Consolidated Dyersville Economic
District                                Development District (Delaware Co.)
10.14 2016 Addition to the Consolidated 10.33 Deleted Property From
Dyersville Economic Development         Consolidated Dyersville Economic
District                                Development District
10.15 March 2017 Addition to the        10.34 Deleted Property From
Consolidated Dyersville Economic        Consolidated Dyersville Economic
Development District                    Development District
10.16 Deleted Property From             10.35 November 2024 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economid        Consolidated Dyersville Economic
Development District                    Development District
10.17 Castings Corner Urban Renewal     10.36 Deleted Property From
Area                                    Consolidated Dyersville Economic
                                        Development District
10.18 Deleted Property From             10.37 2025 Addition to the Consolidatd
Consolidated Dyersville Economic        Dyersville Economi Development District
Development District
10.19 April 2018 Addition to the        10.38 2025 Addition to the Consolidated
Consolidated Dyersville Economic        Dyersville Economic Development
Development District                    District
 
10.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the division of taxes levied
on the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Areas of the City each year by and
for the benefit of the State, City, County, school districts or other taxing
districts after the effective date of the ordinances codified in this chapter
in order to create a special fund to pay the principal of and interest on
loans, advances or indebtedness, including bonds proposed to be issued by the
City, to finance projects in such areas.
10.02   NORTHWEST DYERSVILLE INDUSTRIAL PARK ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the Northwest Dyersville Industrial
Park Economic Development District, the boundaries of which are set out below,
such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved by the
Council by Resolution No. 10-90 adopted on May 7, 1990:
In Section 30, the N½ of the SW¼ of Township 89 N, Range 2 west of the 5th
P.M., Dubuque County:
Lot 1-1-1-1 of Dyersville Industrial Park, and
Lot 2 of 1-1-1, and
Lot 3 of 1-1-1, and
Lot 4 of 1-1-1, and
Lot 1 of West ½ of 2-1, and
Lot 1 of East ½ of 2-1, and
The north 192.8' of 2, and
Lot 1 of South 192.36' of 2, and
Lot 2 of South 192.36' of 2, and
Lot 2 of 3, and
Lot 3 of 1-1.
Also
Lots 1, 2 and 3 of the Dyersville Industrial Development Addition,
Also
South of the CGW Beltline and north of Chicago Central & Pacific Railway, the
south 1.87 acres of West½ of the SW¼ of Section 30
Also
In the Dyersville West Addition:
Lots 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8 of Block 2 and
Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 9A of Block 7 and
Lots 1, 2, 3, 4 of Block 1 and the South 29/100 acres of Block 20.
Also
The south 55/100 acres of the south balance of Lot 1 of the E½ of the SW¼ of
Section 30.
In Section 25, the East½ of the SE¼ of Township 89 North, Range 3 West of the
Fifth P.M., Delaware County:
Lot 1 of Joe Ertl Farm except that portion previously conveyed by instrument
recorded at Book 104, Page 218, and
Lot 2 of Lot 2 of Joe Ertl Farm
The taxes levied on the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area known as the
Northwest Dyersville Industrial Park Economic Development District by and for
the benefit of the State, the City, Dubuque and Delaware Counties, West Dubuque
Community School District and all other taxing districts, from and after the
effective date of Ordinance No. 569, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts taxing
property in said Urban Renewal Area upon the total sum of the assessed value on
the assessment roll of January 1, 1989, shall be allocated to and when
collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing district as taxes by
or for said taxing district into which all other property taxes are paid.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of the base period taxes
determined as provided in Subsection 1 of this section shall be allocated to
and when collected be paid into a special tax increment fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, monies advanced to, indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9 and 403.12 of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the
City to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects undertaken pursuant
to a Dyersville Urban Renewal Project, except that taxes for payment of bonds
and interest of each taxing district levying taxes on said project area shall
be collected against all taxable property within the project area without any
limitation as hereinabove provided.
   3.   All taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property in said
Dyersville Urban Renewal Project Area shall be paid into the funds of the
taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the same manner as
all other property taxes unless or until the total assessed valuation of the
taxable property in said Urban Renewal Area shall exceed the total assessed
value of the taxable property in said Urban Renewal Area on the date of
adoption of Ordinance No. 569.
   4.   At such time as the loans, monies advanced, bonds and interest thereon
and indebtedness of the City hereinabove in Subsection 2 referred to have been
paid, all monies thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in
the Dyersville Urban Renewal Project Area shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
10.03   NORTHEAST DYERSVILLE INDUSTRIAL PARK ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
The provisions of this section apply to the Northeast Dyersville Industrial
Park Economic Development District, the boundaries of which are set out below,
such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved by the
Council by Resolution No. 9-90 adopted on May 7, 1990:
Lot 2-2-1-1 of the NW¼ of the NE¼ of Section 32, Township 89 North, Range 2
West of the 5th P.M., containing 0.38 acres, more or less.
Lot 1-2-1-1 and Lot 2-2-1-1 all in the SW¼ of the NE¼ of Section 32, Township
89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., containing 5.03 acres, more or less.
Part of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of the NW¼ of the NE¼, Part of Lot 1
of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of the SW¼ of the NE¼, Part of Lot 2 of the SE¼ of the NE¼
and Lot 2 of Lot 1 of the N½ of the SE¼, all in Section 32, Township 89 North,
Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., Dubuque County, Iowa, containing a total of 33.69
acres, more or less, subject to all easements of record and more particularly
described by metes and bounds as follows:
Commencing at the northeast corner of Section 32, Township 89 North, Range 2
West of the 5th P.M.; thence north 89°24'03" west 1151.04 feet along the north
line of the NE¼ of said Section 32;
Thence south 00°41'10" west 1564.15 feet along the east line of Lot 2 of the
NE¼ of the NE¼ and the east line of Lot 2 of the SE¼ of the NE¼ to the point of
beginning;
Thence north 63°32'30" west 794.21 feet;
Thence north 06°43'56" west 404.55 feet;
Thence north 52°29'57" west 278.04 feet;
Thence north 70°20'07" west 233.54 feet;
Thence north 76°49'49" west 203.46 feet to a point on the westerly line of said
Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of the NW¼ of the NE¼;
Thence south 01°19'19" east 105.63 feet along said westerly line;
Thence south 24°26'00" east 302.80 feet along said westerly line;
Thence north 90°00'00" east 226.58 feet along said westerly line;
Thence south 01°08'58" west 1278.45 feet along said westerly line and the
westerly line of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of the SW¼ of the NE¼ of said Section
32;
Thence south 60°15'06" east 1213.90 feet along the northerly line of the Old
Chicago and Great Western Railroad right-of-way;
Thence north 00°41'10" east 1212.06 feet along the east line of said Lot 2 of
Lot 1 of the N½ of the SE¼ and said Lot 2 of the SE¼ of the NE¼ to the point of
beginning.
Said described parcel containing a total of 33.69 acres, more or less, subject
to all easements of record. Bearings are referenced to a plat in Book 31, Page
287 of Dubuque County Records.
In Section 32, the NE¼ of the NW¼ of Township 89 North, Range 2 West:
Lot 1 of 1 of 2 of 2, also Lot 1 of Vacated Bradford Street and Stanton Road,
also Lot 1 of 2 of Vacated Bradford Street and Stanton Road, also Lot 2 of 2 of
Vacated Bradford Street and Stanton Road.
In Section 32, the S½ of the NW¼ of Township 89 North Range 2 West:
Lot 1 of 1.
In Section 32, the NW¼, NW½ of Township 89 North, Range 2 West:
All of Lots 130 and 131 of East Dyersville, also north part of Lots 187 through
190 of East Dyersville.
All that land described as Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 2 of Lot 2 of the NE¼ of the
NW¼ of Township 89 North, Range 2 West in Section 32, Dyersville, Dubuque
County, Iowa.
The taxes levied on the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area known as the
Northeast Dyersville Industrial Park Economic Development District by and for
the benefit of the State, the City, Dubuque County, West Dubuque Community
School District and all other taxing districts, from and after the effective
date of Ordinance No. 570, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts taxing
property in said Urban Renewal Area upon the total sum of the assessed value on
the assessment roll of January 1, 1989, shall be allocated to and when
collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing district as taxes by
or for said taxing district into which all other property taxes are paid.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of the base period taxes
determined as provided in Subsection 1 of this section shall be allocated to
and when collected be paid into a special tax increment fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, monies advanced to, indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9 and 403.12 of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the
City to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects undertaken pursuant
to a Dyersville Urban Renewal Project, except that taxes for payment of bonds
and interest of each taxing district levying taxes on said project area shall
be collected against all taxable property within the project area without any
limitation as hereinabove provided.
   3.   All taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property in said
Dyersville Urban Renewal Project Area shall be paid into the funds of the
taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the same manner as
all other property taxes unless or until the total assessed valuation of the
taxable property in said Urban Renewal Area shall exceed the total assessed
value of the taxable property in said Urban Renewal Area on the date of
adoption of Ordinance No. 570.
   4.   At such time as the loans, monies advanced, bonds and interest thereon
and indebtedness of the City hereinabove in Subsection 2 referred to have been
paid, all monies thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in
the Dyersville Urban Renewal Project Area shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
10.04   SOUTHEAST DYERSVILLE INDUSTRIAL PARK ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the Southeast Dyersville Industrial
Park Economic Development District, the boundaries of which are set out below,
such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved by the
Council by Resolution No. 36-90 adopted on November 5, 1990:
Lots 2 and 3 of the Burkle Industrial Park in Section 5 of Township 88 North,
Range 2 West of the 5th P.M. in Dubuque County, Iowa. Said described parcel
containing a total of 40.0 acres, more or less, subject to all easements of
record.
The taxes levied on the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area known as the
Southeast Dyersville Industrial Park Economic Development District by and for
the benefit of the State, the City, Dubuque County, West Dubuque Community
School District and all other taxing districts, from and after the effective
date of Ordinance No. 580, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts taxing
property in said Urban Renewal Area upon the total sum of the assessed value on
the assessment roll of January 1, 1990, shall be allocated to and when
collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing district as taxes by
or for said taxing district into which all other property taxes are paid.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of the base period taxes
determined as provided in Subsection 1 of this section shall be allocated to
and when collected be paid into a special tax increment fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, monies advanced to, indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9 and 403.12 of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the
City to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects undertaken pursuant
to a Dyersville Urban Renewal Project, except that taxes for payment of bonds
and interest of each taxing district levying taxes on said project area shall
be collected against all taxable property within the project area without any
limitation as hereinabove provided.
   3.   All taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property in said
Dyersville Urban Renewal Project Area shall be paid into the funds of the
taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the same manner as
all other property taxes unless or until the total assessed valuation of the
taxable property in said Urban Renewal Area shall exceed the total assessed
value of the taxable property in said Urban Renewal Area on the date of
adoption of Ordinance No. 580.
   4.   At such time as the loans, monies advanced, bonds and interest thereon
and indebtedness of the City hereinabove in Subsection 2 referred to have been
paid, all monies thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in
the Dyersville Urban Renewal Project Area shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
10.05   DYERSVILLE SOUTHWEST COMMERCIAL PARK ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the Dyersville Southwest Commercial
Park Economic Development District, the boundaries of which are set out below:
Smiths Sub-Lot B; Smiths Sub-W 100' of Lot 7; Smiths Sub-E 75' of Lot 7; Smiths
Sub-Lot 6 and S 809' S 834' of W½ Lot 4 and S 809' E 34' S 834' Lot 5 & W 18' S
834' Lot 5 & W 18' N 90' Lot 5, Dyersville Lots 902 & I-903 EXC West 90' & All
of Lot 1-2-904; Tegelers Sub-Lots 4, 6 & 7 Luehrsman Sub-Lot 1-1-1-1-16
Heirings Sub W 255.7' Lot 26A and all of Lots 27 through 38; E 36' VACATED
Allen St. ABTG Lot 197; Dyersville-Lot 196 & Lot 197; Dyersville-Lot 194 and
Lot 195; Dyersville Lot-192 and Lot 193; Dyersville-N 60' Lots 99 & 100 & 101 &
W 20' N 60' Lot 102; Dyersville-S 55' Lots 99 & 100 & S 55' W 20' Lot 102;
Dyersville-Lots 96 & 97 & 98 & W 20' Lot 95 & W 170' Lots 25 & 26 & W 170'
Hamilton St (300' long) & W 70' Alley (400' long) & W 70' Florence St (400'
long) All west of Rivoli Street; Dyersville-N 60' Lots 103 & 104 & E 30' N 60'
Lot 102; Ploesl Sub-Lot 1; Ploesl Sub-Lot 2; Ploesl Sub-Lot 3; Ploesl Sub-Lots
4 & 5; Ploesl Sub-Lot 6 & Lot 7; Ploesl Sub-Lot 8; Lot 2-1-1-1 NW SW EXC S 46'
& Lot 1-1 S 1; 2 NW; Lot 1-3 N½ EXC S 1 AC; Dyersville - W 90' of Lots 902 & I-
903 & all of Lot I-904; Lot 2-1 S½ NW West of 3rd St; Lot 2-1 S½ NW East of 3rd
St; Arbor Court Lot 20; Westridge Sub-Lot 2-4; Westridge Sub-Lot 1; Westridge
Sub-Lot 2; Lot 2-1-1-2-1-1-2-1 & Lot 1-2-1-2-1-1-2-1, E½ SW & Lots 2-1-2-1-1 &
2-2-1-1 NW SW; Ament Sub-Lot 3; Ament Sub-Lot 4; Lot 1-1-1-2-1 E½ SW; Lot 2-2-
1-2-1-1-2-1 E½ SW; Lot 1-1-1-2-2-1 E½ SW; Lot 2-1-1-2-2-1 E½ SW; Lot 2-2-2-1-1-
2-1 E½ SW; Lot 2-1-1-1 E½ SW; Scenic Heights Lot 43 Blk 5 E of River;
Southview-Lot 2; Allan Ertl Farm - Lot 1-1-1-1-1; Hill Side Center Add-Lots 12
& 13; Lot 2 W½ SE; Westridge Estates - Lot A, Lot B, Lots 1 through 8 Blk 1,
Lots 1 through 8 Block 2, Lots 1 through 5 and 10 through 14 Blk 3, Lots 1
through 13 Blk 4; all in Section 31 T 89N R 2 W and PT NE NW of Section 06 T 88
N R2W; PT NE NW of Section 06 T 88 N R2W; PT NE NW lying N of HWY a/k/a that PT
of M/B 15712-92 lying in NW of NW of Section 06 T88N R2W, all in Dubuque
County, Iowa
and the NW¼ of NE¼, the NE¼ of NE¼, the SW¼ of NE¼, the SE¼ of NE¼, the NW¼ of
SE¼, the NE¼ of SE¼, the SW¼ of SE¼, and the SE¼ of SE¼ of Section 36, T89 R3,
all in Delaware County, Iowa.
The taxes levied on the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area known as the
Dyersville Southwest Commercial Park Economic Development District by and for
the benefit of the State, the City, Dubuque County, Delaware County, Western
Dubuque School District and all other taxing districts, from and after the
effective date of Ordinance No. 618, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts taxing
property in said Urban Renewal Area upon the total sum of the assessed value on
the assessment roll of January 1, 1993, shall be allocated to and when
collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing district as taxes by
or for said taxing district into which all other property taxes are paid.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of the base period taxes
determined as provided in Subsection 1 of this section shall be allocated to
and when collected be paid into a special tax increment fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, monies advanced to, indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9 and 403.12 of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the
City to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects undertaken pursuant
to a Dyersville Urban Renewal Project, except that taxes for payment of bonds
and interest of each taxing district levying taxes on said project area shall
be collected against all taxable property within the project area without any
limitation as hereinabove provided.
   3.   All taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property in said
Dyersville Urban Renewal Project Area shall be paid into the funds of the
taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the same manner as
all other property taxes unless or until the total assessed valuation of the
taxable property in said Urban Renewal Area shall exceed the total assessed
value of the taxable property in said Urban Renewal Area on the date of
adoption of Ordinance No. 618.
   4.   At such time as the loans, monies advanced, bonds and interest thereon
and indebtedness of the City hereinabove in Subsection 2 referred to have been
paid, all monies thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in
the Dyersville Urban Renewal Project Area shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
10.06   1998 ADDITION TO THE NORTHEAST DYERSVILLE INDUSTRIAL PARK ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.  
The provisions of this section apply to the 1998 Addition to the Northeast
Dyersville Industrial Park Economic Development District, the boundaries of
which are set out below, such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal
Plan approved by the Council by resolution adopted on February 16, 1998:
Lot 1-2-1-1 of NW¼, NE¼, Section 32-89-2W
Lot 2-1-1-2 of NE¼, NW¼, Section 32-89-2W
Lot 1-2 of SE¼, NE¼, Section 32-89-2W
Lot 2-1 of N½, SE¼, Section 32-89-2W
Lot 1 of SE¼, NE¼, Section 32-89-2W
Lot 1-1 of N½, SE¼, Section 32-89-2W
The taxes levied on the taxable property in the 1998 Addition to the Northeast
Dyersville Industrial Park Economic Development District each year by and for
the benefit of the State, the City, the County and any school district or other
taxing district in which the 1998 Addition to the Northeast Dyersville
Industrial Park Economic Development District is located, from and after the
effective date of Ordinance No. 662, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the 1998 Addition to
the Northeast Dyersville Industrial Park Economic Development District, as
shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the calendar year preceding the
first calendar year in which the City certifies to the County Auditor the
amount of loans, advances, indebtedness or bonds payable from the special fund
referred to in Subsection 2, shall be allocated to and when collected be paid
into the fund for the respective taxing district as taxes by or for said taxing
district into which all other property taxes are paid. For the purpose of
allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing district which did not include the
territory in the 1998 Addition to the Northeast Dyersville Industrial Park
Economic Development District on the effective date of Ordinance No. 662, but
to which the territory has been annexed or otherwise included after said
effective date, the assessment roll applicable to property in the annexed
territory as of January 1 of the calendar year preceding the effective date of
the ordinance which amends the plan for the 1998 Addition to the Northeast
Dyersville Industrial Park Economic Development District to include the annexed
area, shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable
property in the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, advances or indebtedness, whether
funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under the
authority of Section 403.9[1] of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the 1998 Addition to the
Northeast Dyersville Industrial Park Economic Development District, except that
taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing district shall be
collected against all taxable property within the taxing district without
limitation by the provisions of this section. Unless and until the total
assessed valuation of the taxable property in the 1998 Addition to the
Northeast Dyersville Industrial Park Economic Development District exceeds the
total assessed value of the taxable property in such area as shown on the
assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of this section, all of the taxes
levied and collected upon the taxable property in the 1998 Addition to the
Northeast Dyersville Industrial Park Economic Development District shall be
paid into the funds for the respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said
taxing districts in the same manner as all other property taxes. When such
loans, advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have
been paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property
in the 1998 Addition to the Northeast Dyersville Industrial Park Economic
Development District shall be paid into the funds for the respective taxing
districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9[1] of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the 1998 Addition to the Northeast Dyersville Industrial Park
Economic Development District.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.07   2004 ADDITION TO THE DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.  
The provisions of this section apply to the 2004 Addition to the Dyersville
Economic Development District, the boundaries of which are set out below, such
area having been identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved by the Council
by resolution adopted on July 6, 2004:
Lot 1, Racing Champions Ertl Subdivision, City of Dyersville, Dubuque County,
Iowa.
The taxes levied on the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment
each year by and for the benefit of the State, the City, the County and any
school district or other taxing district in which the Urban Renewal Area
Amendment is located, from and after the effective date of Ordinance No. 708,
shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the Urban Renewal
Area Amendment, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the calendar
year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to the
County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness or bonds payable
from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2, shall be allocated to and
when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing district as
taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property taxes are
paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing district
which did not include the territory in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment on the
effective date of Ordinance No. 708, but to which the territory has been
annexed or otherwise included after said effective date, the assessment roll
applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the calendar
year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the plan for
the Urban Renewal Area Amendment to include the annexed area, shall be used in
determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9[1] of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area
Amendment, except that taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each
taxing district shall be collected against all taxable property within the
taxing district without limitation by the provisions of this section. Unless
and until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the Urban
Renewal Area Amendment exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property
in such area as shown on the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of
this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property
in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the
same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans, advances,
indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been paid, all
money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the Urban
Renewal Area Amendment shall be paid into the funds for the respective taxing
districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9[1] of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.08   2008 ADDITION TO THE DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
The provisions of this section apply to the 2008 Addition to the Dyersville
Economic Development District, the boundaries of which are set out below, such
area having been identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved by the Council
by resolution adopted on February 4, 2008:
That part of Sections 35 and 36, Township 89 North, Range 3 West of the 5th
Principal Meridian and that part of Sections 1, 2 and 3, Township 88 North,
Range 3 West of the 5th Principal Meridian, Delaware County, Iowa, described as
follows:
Beginning at the south quarter corner of Section 36, Township 89 North, Range 3
West of the 5th Principal Meridian, Delaware County, Iowa;
Thence southerly approximately 174 feet to the southerly right-of-way line of
US Highway 20;
Thence westerly along said southerly right-of-way line approximately 58 feet;
Thence westerly along said southerly right-of-way line approximately 359 feet;
Thence westerly along said southerly right-of-way line approximately 431 feet;
Thence westerly along said southerly right-of-way line approximately 101 feet;
Thence westerly along said southerly right-of-way line approximately 823 feet
to the west line of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section
1, Township 88 North, Range 3 West and the northeast corner of Parcel A in the
Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 2, Township 88 North,
Range 3 West as shown in Book 7, Page 62;
Thence westerly along the north line of said Parcel A a record distance of
895.25 feet and along said southerly right-of-way line of US Highway 20 to the
northeast corner of Lot 1 as recorded in Book 2, Page 157;
Thence westerly along the north line of said Lot 1, also being said southerly
right-of-way line of US Highway 20, a record distance of 633.14 feet to the
northwest corner of said Lot 1;
Thence southerly along the west line of said Lot 1 a record distance of 344.00
feet to the southwest corner of said Lot 1;
Thence easterly along the south line of said Lot 1 a record distance of 633.14
feet to the southeast corner of said Lot 1 and southwest corner of said Parcel
A in the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter;
Thence easterly a record distance of 640.9 feet according to Book 7, Page 62
along the south line of said Parcel A;
Thence southerly a record distance of 164.35 feet;
Thence easterly a record distance of 255.45 feet to the southeast corner of
said Parcel A and the east line of the Northeast Quarter of Section 2;
Thence southerly along said east line of the Northeast Quarter approximately
1,802 feet to the north line of the South Half of the Southeast Quarter of the
Northeast Quarter of said Section 2;
Thence westerly approximately 1,326 feet along said north line of the South
Half of the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter to the west line of the
East Half of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 2;
Thence northerly along said west line of the East Half of the Northeast Quarter
approximately 1,152 feet to a point 20 chains south of the north line of the
Northeast Quarter of said Section 2;
Thence westerly approximately 1,782 feet to a point approximately 20 chains
south and 13 chains and 30 links east of the northwest corner of the Northeast
Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 2;
Thence northerly approximately 224 feet;
Thence westerly 880 feet to the west line of the Northeast Quarter of the
Northwest Quarter of said Section 2;
Thence southerly along said west line of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest
Quarter approximately 210 feet;
Thence westerly approximately 1,323 feet to the west line of said Section 2
also being the centerline of 320th Avenue;
Thence westerly approximately 1,324 feet to the west line of the Northeast
Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 3, Township 88 North, Range 3 West;
Thence northerly along said west line of the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast
Quarter approximately 1,328 feet to the northwest corner of said Northeast
Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 3;
Thence easterly along the north line of said Northeast Quarter of Section 3
approximately 1,321 feet to the northeast corner of said Section 3;
Thence continuing easterly along the north line of the Northwest Quarter of the
Northwest Quarter of Section 2, Township 88 North, Range 3 West approximately
192 feet;
Thence northerly along westerly right-of-way line approximately 544 feet;
Thence easterly along said right-of-way line approximately 247 feet to the west
line of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 35, Township
89 North, Range 3 West and centerline of 320th Avenue;
Thence southerly along said west line of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest
Quarter approximately 350 feet;
Thence easterly approximately 33 feet to the easterly right-of-way line of said
320th Avenue;
Thence southeasterly approximately 185 feet to the northerly right-of-way line
of US Highway 20;
Thence easterly along said northerly right-of-way line approximately 1,186 feet
to the east line of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 35;
Thence continuing easterly along said northerly right-of-way line approximately
650 feet;
Thence continuing easterly along said northerly right-of-way line approximately
60 feet;
Thence continuing easterly along said northerly right-of-way line approximately
188 feet;
Thence continuing easterly along said northerly right-of-way line approximately
61 feet;
Thence continuing easterly along said northerly right-of-way line approximately
364 feet to the east line of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
said Section 35;
Thence northerly along the west line of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast
Quarter approximately 1,297 feet to the northwest corner of the Southeast
Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of said Section 35;
Thence easterly along the north line of said Southeast Quarter of the Southeast
Quarter of Section 35 approximately 1,334 feet to the northeast corner of the
Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 35, Township 89 North,
Range 3 West;
Thence southerly along the east line of said Southeast Quarter of the Southeast
Quarter of said Section 35 approximately 1,252 feet to the northerly right-of-
way line of US Highway No. 20;
Thence easterly along said northerly right-of-way line of US Highway No. 20 in
the Southwest Quarter of Section 36 approximately 2503 feet;
Thence northeasterly along said northerly right-of-way line approximately 121.5
feet;
Thence easterly along said northerly right-of-way line approximately 66 feet to
the east line of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 36;
Thence southerly along said east line of Southwest Quarter approximately 157
feet to the south quarter corner of said Section 36 the point of beginning,
containing approximately 277.6 acres.
Furthermore, Lot 2 of Racing Champions Ertl Subdivision, City of Dyersville,
Dubuque County, Iowa.
The taxes levied on the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment
each year by and for the benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and
any school district or other taxing district in which the Urban Renewal Area
Amendment is located, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the Urban Renewal
Area Amendment, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the calendar
year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to the
County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds payable
from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be allocated to
and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing district as
taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property taxes are
paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing district
which did not include the territory in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment on the
effective date of Ordinance No. 736, but to which the territory has been
annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment roll
applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the calendar
year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the plan for
the Urban Renewal Area Amendment to include the annexed area, shall be used in
determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, and taxes for the payment of
bonds and interest of each taxing district shall be collected against all
taxable property within the taxing district without limitation by the
provisions of this section. Unless and until the total assessed valuation of
the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment exceeds the total
assessed value of the taxable property in such area as shown by the assessment
roll referred to in Subsection 1 of this section, all of the taxes levied and
collected upon the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment shall
be paid into the funds for the respective taxing districts as taxes by or for
said taxing districts in the same manner as all other property taxes. When such
loans, advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have
been paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property
in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.09   2009 ADDITION TO THE DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the 2009 Addition to the Dyersville
Economic Development District, the boundaries of which are set out below, such
area having been identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved by the Council
by resolution adopted on November 16, 2009:
Certain real property situated in the City of Dyersville, County of Delaware,
State of Iowa, more particularly described as follows:
Parcel “R”: South 250' of SW 1/4 of SW 1/4, SE 1/4 of SW 1/4, NW 1/4 of SW 1/4,
NE 1/4 of SW 1/4 South of the former Railroad R.O.W., SW 1/4 of NW 1/4 South of
the former Railroad R.O.W., SE 1/4 of NW 1/4 of the former Railroad R.O.W., NW
1/4 of SE 1/4 South of center line of Vine Road, NE 1/4 of SE 1/4 South of
center line of Vine Road & S 1/2 of SE 1/4 of Section 26, Township 89 North,
Range 3 West of the 5th Principal Meridian, Delaware County, Iowa.
The taxes levied on the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment
each year by and for the benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and
any school district or other taxing district in which the Urban Renewal Area
Amendment is located, shall be divided as follows:
That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which the tax
is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the total sum
of the assessed value of the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area
Amendment, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the calendar year
preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to the County
Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds payable from the
special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be allocated to and when
collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing district as taxes by
or for said taxing district into which all other property taxes are paid. For
the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing district which did
not include the territory in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment on the effective
date of Ordinance No. 755, but to which the territory has been annexed or
otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment roll applicable to
property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the calendar year
preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the plan for the
Urban Renewal Area Amendment to include the annexed area, shall be used in
determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in the annexed area.
That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, and taxes for the payment of
bonds and interest of each taxing district shall be collected against all
taxable property within the taxing district without limitation by the
provisions of this section. Unless and until the total assessed valuation of
the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment exceeds the total
assessed value of the taxable property in such area as shown by the assessment
roll referred to in Subsection 1 of this section, all of the taxes levied and
collected upon the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment shall
be paid into the funds for the respective taxing districts as taxes by or for
said taxing districts in the same manner as all other property taxes. When such
loans, advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have
been paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property
in the Urban Renewal Area Amendment shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the special
fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged by the
City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances, bonds
issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited to, all
levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.10   2012 ADDITION TO THE DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the 2012 Addition to the Dyersville
Economic Development District, the legal description of which is set out below,
such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved by the
Council by resolution adopted on March 2, 2012:
Certain real property lying within the incorporated limits of the City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, State of Iowa, more particularly described as
follows:
Lot One (1) of the North Fractional Half (N FRL½) of the Northeast Fractional
Quarter (NE FRL¼) of Section Two (2), Township Eighty-Eight (88) North, Range
Three (3), West of the 5th P.M., in Delaware County, Iowa.
Parcel H in Section 2, Township 88 North, Range 3, West of the 5th P.M.,
Delaware County, Iowa, being part of the Northeast ¼ of the Northwest ¼ Section
2, Township 88 North, Range 3, West of the 5th P.M., Delaware County, Iowa.
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 769, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the 2012 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the 2012 Urban Renewal Area Addition is located,
shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the 2012 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the 2012 Urban Renewal Area
Addition on the effective date of Ordinance No. 769, but to which the territory
has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment
roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the
plan for the 2012 Urban Renewal Area to include the annexed area, shall be used
in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in the annexed
area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, and taxes for the payment of
bonds and interest of each taxing district shall be collected against all
taxable property within the taxing district without limitation by the
provisions of this section. Unless and until the total assessed valuation of
the taxable property in the 2012 Urban Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total
assessed value of the taxable property in such area as shown by the assessment
roll referred to in Subsection 1 of this section, all of the taxes levied and
collected upon the taxable property in the 2012 Urban Renewal Area Addition
shall be paid into the funds for the respective taxing districts as taxes by or
for said taxing districts in the same manner as all other property taxes. When
such loans, advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon,
have been paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable
property in the 2012 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds
for the respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other
property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.11   2012 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the 2012 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District, the legal description of
which is set out below, such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal
Plan approved by the Council by resolution adopted on August 20, 2012:
Certain real property situated in the City of Dyersville, County of Dubuque,
State of Iowa, more particularly described as follows:
SW1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 22, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th
Principal Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa, Except Lot 1 part of the SW1/4 of
the SE1/4 of Section 22 and part of the NW1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 27. NW1/
4 of the NE1/4 of Section 27, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th
Principal Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa, Except Lot 1 part of the SW1/4 of
the SE1/4 of Section 22 and part of the NW1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 27. SW1/
4 of the SE1/4 of Section 22, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th
Principal Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa. SW1/4 of the SW1/4 of Section 23,
Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian in Dubuque
County, Iowa. NE1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 27, Township 89 North, Range 2 West
of the 5th Principal Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa. NW1/4 of the NW1/4 of
Section 26, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian in
Dubuque County, Iowa. Lot 1 of the SW1/4 of the NW1/4 of Section 26, Township
89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa.
Lot 2 of Trinity Acres of the SE1/4 of the NE1/4 of Section 27, Township 89
North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa.
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 771, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the 2012 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the 2012 Urban Renewal Area Addition is located,
shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the 2012 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the 2012 Urban Renewal Area
Addition on the effective date of Ordinance No. 771, but to which the territory
has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment
roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the
plan for the 2012 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed area,
shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in
the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the 2012 Urban Renewal
Area Addition, and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family
housing as provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and
voter-approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of the
Code of Iowa, and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of this section. Unless and until
the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the 2012 Urban Renewal
Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property in such
area as shown by the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of this
section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property in the
2012 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the
same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans, advances,
indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been paid, all
money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the 2012
Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the respective
taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the 2012 Urban Renewal Area Addition.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.12   2013 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the 2013 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District, the legal description of
which is set out below, such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal
Plan approved by the Council by resolution adopted on December 16, 2013:
Certain real property situated at 1119 11th Street SE in the City of
Dyersville, County of Dubuque, State of Iowa bearing the Dubuque County
Property Tax Identification Parcel Number 0732306017 and described as Lots 2
and 3 of Grandview Estates 1st Addition
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 782, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the 2013 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the 2013 Urban Renewal Area Addition is located,
shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the 2013 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the 2013 Urban Renewal Area
Addition on the effective date of Ordinance No. 782, but to which the territory
has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment
roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the
plan for the 2013 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed area,
shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in
the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of Ordinance No. 782. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the 2013 Urban
Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property
in such area as shown by the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of
this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property
in the 2013 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the
same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans, advances,
indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been paid, all
money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the Urban
Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the respective taxing
districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.13   2016 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the 2016 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District, the legal description of
which is set out below, such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal
Plan approved by the Council by resolution adopted on September 19, 2016:
Certain real property situated in the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, State
of Iowa bearing Dubuque County Property Tax Identification Parcel Number
0732126021 as of September 1, 2016.
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 801, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the 2016 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the 2016 Urban Renewal Area Addition is located,
shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the 2016 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the 2016 Urban Renewal Area
Addition on the effective date of Ordinance No. 801, but to which the territory
has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment
roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the
plan for the 2016 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed area,
shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in
the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of Ordinance No. 801. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the 2016 Urban
Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property
in such area as shown by the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of
this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property
in the 2016 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the
same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans, advances,
indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been paid, all
money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the Urban
Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the respective taxing
districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.14   2016 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
The provisions of this section apply to the 2016 Addition to the Consolidated
Dyersville Economic Development District, the legal description of which is set
out below, such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved
by the Council by resolution adopted on December 19, 2016:
Certain real property situated in the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, State
of Iowa bearing Dubuque County Property Tax Parcel Identification Numbers
0731436021, 0731478019 and 0731436015 as of November 1, 2016.
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 804, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the 2016 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the 2016 Urban Renewal Area Addition is located,
shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the 2016 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the 2016 Urban Renewal Area
Addition on the effective date of Ordinance No. 804, but to which the territory
has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment
roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the
plan for the 2016 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed area,
shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in
the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of Ordinance No. 804. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the 2016 Urban
Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property
in such areas as shown by the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of
this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property
in the 2016 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the
same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans, advances,
indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been paid, all
money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the Urban
Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the respective taxing
districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.15   MARCH 2017 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the March 2017 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District, the legal description of
which is set out below, such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal
Plan approved by the Council by resolution adopted on March 6, 2017:
Certain real property situated in the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, State
of Iowa bearing Dubuque County Property Tax Parcel Identification Number
0729326002 and more particularly described as Lot 1 of Demmer Place
Subdivision, City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa.
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 805, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the March 2017 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the March 2017 Urban Renewal Area Addition is
located, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the March 2017 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the March 2017 Urban Renewal
Area Addition on the effective date of Ordinance No. 805, but to which the
territory has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the
assessment roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1
of the calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends
the plan for the March 2017 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed
area, shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable
property in the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of Ordinance No. 805. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the March 2017
Urban Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable
property in such areas as shown by the assessment roll referred to in
Subsection 1 of this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the
taxable property in the March 2017 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid
into the funds for the respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said
taxing districts in the same manner as all other property taxes. When such
loans, advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have
been paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property
in the Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.16   DELETED PROPERTY FROM CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
   The following described property is hereby removed from the tax increment
financing district for the Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development
District:
Lot 1 of Castings Corner, City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa.
No division of property tax revenues as provided under Section 403.19 of the
Code of Iowa shall be done with respect to the deleted property without further
action by the City Council.
10.17   CASTINGS CORNER URBAN RENEWAL AREA.
The provisions of this section apply to the Castings Corner Urban Renewal Area,
the legal description of which is set out below, such area having been
identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved by the Council by resolution
adopted on February 19, 2018:
Lot 1 of Castings Corner, City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 813, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the Castings Corner Urban Renewal Area each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the Castings Corner Urban Renewal Area is
located, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the Castings Corner
Urban Renewal Area, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the Castings Corner Urban
Renewal Area on the effective date of Ordinance No. 813, but to which the
territory has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the
assessment roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1
of the calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends
the plan for the Castings Corner Urban Renewal Area to include the annexed
area, shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable
property in the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of Ordinance No. 813. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the Castings
Corner Urban Renewal Area exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable
property in such areas as shown by the assessment roll referred to in
Subsection 1 of this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the
taxable property in the Castings Corner Urban Renewal Area shall be paid into
the funds for the respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing
districts in the same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans,
advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been
paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the
Urban Renewal Area shall be paid into the funds for the respective taxing
districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.18   DELETED PROPERTY FROM CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
   The following described property is hereby removed from the tax increment
financing district for the Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development
District:
Parcel H of Westridge Estates 6th Addition to the City of Dyersville, Delaware
County, Iowa
No division of property tax revenues as provided under Section 403.19 of the
Code of Iowa shall be done with respect to the deleted property without further
action by the City Council.
10.19   APRIL 2018 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the April 2018 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District, the legal description of
which is set out below, such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal
Plan approved by the Council by resolution adopted on April 16, 2018:
Parcel H of Westridge Estates 6th Addition to the City of Dyersville, Delaware
County, Iowa.
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 815, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the April 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the April 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition is
located, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the April 2018 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the April 2018 Urban Renewal
Area Addition on the effective date of Ordinance No. 815, but to which the
territory has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the
assessment roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1
of the calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends
the plan for the April 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed
area, shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable
property in the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of Ordinance No. 815. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the April 2018
Urban Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable
property in such areas as shown by the assessment roll referred to in
Subsection 1 of this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the
taxable property in the April 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid
into the funds for the respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said
taxing districts in the same manner as all other property taxes. When such
loans, advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have
been paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property
in the Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.20   JUNE 2018 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the June 2018 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District, the legal description of
which is set out below, such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal
Plan approved by the Council by resolution adopted on June 4, 2018:
Certain real property situated in the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, State
of Iowa bearing Dubuque County Property Tax Parcel Identification Number
0731478012.
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 816, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the June 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the June 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition is
located, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the June 2018 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the June 2018 Urban Renewal
Area Addition on the effective date of Ordinance No. 816, but to which the
territory has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the
assessment roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1
of the calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends
the plan for the June 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed
area, shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable
property in the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of Ordinance No. 816. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the June 2018
Urban Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable
property in such areas as shown by the assessment roll referred to in
Subsection 1 of this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the
taxable property in the June 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid
into the funds for the respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said
taxing districts in the same manner as all other property taxes. When such
loans, advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have
been paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property
in the Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.21   JUNE 2018 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the June 2018 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District, the legal description of
which is set out below, such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal
Plan approved by the Council by resolution adopted on June 4, 2018:
Certain real property situated in the City of Dyersville, Delaware County,
State of Iowa bearing Delaware County Property Tax Parcel Identification
Numbers 540000200150, 540000200140, 540000200130, 540000200120, 540000200110
and 540000100140.
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 817, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the June 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the June 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition is
located, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the June 2018 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the June 2018 Urban Renewal
Area Addition on the effective date of Ordinance No. 817, but to which the
territory has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the
assessment roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1
of the calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends
the plan for the June 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed
area, shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable
property in the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of Ordinance No. 817. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the June 2018
Urban Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable
property in such areas as shown by the assessment roll referred to in
Subsection 1 of this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the
taxable property in the June 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid
into the funds for the respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said
taxing districts in the same manner as all other property taxes. When such
loans, advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have
been paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property
in the Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.22   DELETED PROPERTY FROM CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
   The following described property is hereby removed from the tax increment
financing district for the Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development
District:
540000200150 Lot 5 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000200140 Lot 4 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000200130 Lot 3 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000200120 Lot 2 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000200110 Lot 1 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000100140 Lot 1 of Southwest Commercial Park Second Addition, excluding
parcel deeded to Iowa Department of Transportation (Book 2014, Page 1400), City
of Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa.
No division of property tax revenues as provided under Section 403.19 of the
Code of Iowa shall be done with respect to the deleted property without further
action by the City Council.
10.23   JULY 2018 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the July 2018 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District, the legal description of
which is set out below, such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal
Plan approved by the Council by resolution adopted on July 16, 2018:
Certain real property situated in the City of Dyersville, Delaware County,
State of Iowa bearing Delaware County Property Tax Parcel Identification
Numbers 540000200150, 540000200140, 540000200130, 540000200120, 540000200110
and 540000100140, more particularly described as:
540000200150 - Lot 5 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000200140 - Lot 4 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000200130 - Lot 3 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000200120 - Lot 2 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000200110 - Lot 1 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000100140 - Lot 1 of Southwest Commercial Park Second Addition, excluding
parcel deeded to Iowa Department of Transportation (Book 2014, Page 1400), City
of Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa.
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 821, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the July 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the July 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition is
located, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the July 2018 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the July 2018 Urban Renewal
Area Addition on the effective date of Ordinance No. 821, but to which the
territory has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the
assessment roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1
of the calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends
the plan for the July 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed
area, shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable
property in the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of Ordinance No. 821. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the July 2018
Urban Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable
property in such areas as shown by the assessment roll referred to in
Subsection 1 of this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the
taxable property in the July 2018 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid
into the funds for the respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said
taxing districts in the same manner as all other property taxes. When such
loans, advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have
been paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property
in the Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.24   MAY 2019 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
   The provisions of this section apply to the May 2019 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District, the legal description of
which is set out below, such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal
Plan approved by the Council by resolution adopted on May 20, 2019:
Certain real property situated in the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, State
of Iowa, more particularly described as follows:
Lot 1A, Mill Subdivision;
The North Half of Lot 1, Mill Subdivision;
The South Half of Lot 1, Mill Subdivision;
Lot 1 of Stieber's Subdivision No.2;
Lot 1-1-1 of Stieber's Subdivision;
The East 40 Feet of the North 257 Feet of Vacated Tempe Street; being part of
Lot 2, Mill Subdivision;
The West 40 Feet of the North 142 Feet of Vacated Tempe Street;
The West Half of Lot 924 & Lots 925 thru 933, except the Railroad property; and
that portion of Tempe Street, vacated, abutting Lot 927; and that portion of
Pine Street, vacated, from the West Line of vacated Tempe Street, West to the
North Fork of the Maquoketa River; all in the City of Dyersville, Iowa;
Lot 4 of Southridge Plaza No. 2; and
North ½ of Lot 1 of Mill Subdivision.
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 830, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the May 2019 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the May 2019 Urban Renewal Area Addition is
located, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the May 2019 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the May 2019 Urban Renewal Area
Addition on the effective date of Ordinance No. 830, but to which the territory
has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment
roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the
plan for the May 2019 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed area,
shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in
the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of Ordinance No. 830. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the May 2019
Urban Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable
property in such areas as shown by the assessment roll referred to in
Subsection 1 of this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the
taxable property in the May 2019 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into
the funds for the respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing
districts in the same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans,
advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been
paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the
2019 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.25   DYERSVILLE DOWNTOWN URBAN RENEWAL AREA.
The provisions of this section apply to the Dyersville Downtown Urban Renewal
Area, the legal description of which is set out below, such area having been
identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved by the Council by resolution
adopted on June 1, 2020:
Part of the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa, being more particularly
described as follows: Beginning at the southeast corner of Lot 369 in the
Original Town of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence west to the southwest
corner of Lot 372 in said Original Town; thence west to the southeast corner of
Lot 373 in said Original Town; thence west to the southeast corner of Lot 377
in said Original Town; thence south to the southeast corner of Lot 271 in said
Original Town; thence east to the southwest corner of Lot 269 in said Original
Town; thence south to a point 7 feet north of the northwest corner of Lot 170
in said Original Town; thence east to a point 7 feet north of the northeast
corner of the west 30 feet of the north 115 feet of vacated Union Street
located east of Lot 168 in the Original Town of Dyersville; thence south to the
southeast corner of said west 30 feet of the north 115 feet of said vacated
Union Street; thence west to the southwest corner of Lot 171 in said Original
Town; thence north to the northwest corner of said Lot 171; thence west to the
northwest corner of Lot 173 in said Original Town and the east line of 1st
Street Southwest; thence north along said east line to the northwest corner of
Lot 320A in the Original Town of Dyersville; thence west to the southwest
corner of Lot 383 in said Original Town and the east line of 2nd Street
Southwest; thence north along the east line of 2nd Street Northwest and
Southwest to the northwest corner of Lot 917 in said Original Town; thence east
to the northeast corner of Lot 922 in said Original Town; thence south to the
northeast corner of Lot 419 in said Original Town; thence east to the northeast
corner of Lot 419A in said Original Town; thence south to the southeast corner
of said Lot 419A; thence east to the southwest corner of Lot 2 in Stieber’s
Subdivision No. 2 in the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa; thence north
to the northwest corner of said Lot 2; thence east to the southeast corner of
Lot A in Twin Steeples Landing in the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa;
thence east to the southwest corner of Lot 460 in the Original Town of
Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa, and the east line of 2nd Street Northeast;
thence north along said east line to the south right-of-way line of the
Chicago, Central and Pacific Railroad property; thence east along said south
right-of-way line of the Chicago, Central and Pacific Railroad property to the
northeast corner of Lot 1 in Jenk Place in the City of Dyersville, Dubuque
County, Iowa; thence south to the southeast corner of said Lot 1 in Jenk Place;
thence west to the southwest corner of said Lot 1 in Jenk Place; thence south
to the northeast corner of Lot 453 in the Original Town of Dyersville; thence
west to the northeast corner of Lot 457 in said Original Town and the west line
of 3rd Street Northeast; thence south along the west line of 3rd Street
Northeast and Southeast to the point of beginning, containing 13.5 acres more
or less.
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 832, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the Dyersville Downtown Urban Renewal Area each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the Dyersville Downtown Urban Renewal Area is
located, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the Dyersville
Downtown Urban Renewal Area, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of
the calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies
to the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the Dyersville Downtown Urban
Renewal Area on the effective date of Ordinance No. 832, but to which the
territory has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the
assessment roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1
of the calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends
the plan for the Dyersville Downtown Urban Renewal Area to include the annexed
area, shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable
property in the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of Ordinance No. 832. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the Dyersville
Downtown Urban Renewal Area exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable
property in such areas as shown by the assessment roll referred to in
Subsection 1 of this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the
taxable property in the Dyersville Downtown Urban Renewal Area shall be paid
into the funds for the respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said
taxing districts in the same manner as all other property taxes. When such
loans, advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have
been paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property
in the Urban Renewal Area shall be paid into the funds for the respective
taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
10.26   DELETED PROPERTY FROM CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
The following described property is hereby removed from the tax increment
financing district for the Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development
District:
540000200130 Lot 3 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000200120 Lot 2 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000200110 Lot 1 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of
Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa.
No division of property tax revenues as provided under Section 403.19 of the
Code of Iowa shall be done with respect to the deleted property without further
action by the City Council.
(Ord. 834 - Oct. 20 Supp.)
10.27   2020 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
The provisions of this section apply to the 2020 Addition to the Consolidated
Dyersville Economic Development District, the legal description of which is set
out below, such area having been identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved
by the Council by resolution adopted on October 19, 2020:
Certain real property situated in the City of Dyersville, Delaware County,
State of Iowa, bearing Delaware County Property Tax Parcel Identification
Numbers 540000200130, 540000200120, and 540000200110, and more particularly
described as follows:
540000200130
Lot 3 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of Dyersville,
Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000200120
Lot 2 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of Dyersville,
Delaware County, Iowa; and
540000200110
Lot 1 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of Dyersville,
Delaware County, Iowa.
After the effective date of Ordinance No. 835, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the 2020 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the 2020 Urban Renewal Area Addition is located,
shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the 2020 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the 2020 Urban Renewal Area
Addition on the effective date of Ordinance No. 835, but to which the territory
has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment
roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the
plan for the 2020 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed area,
shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in
the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of Ordinance No. 835. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the 2020 Urban
Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property
in such area as shown by the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of
this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property
in the 2020 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the
same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans, advances,
indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been paid, all
money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the 2020
Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the respective
taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
(Section 10.27 - Ord. 835 - Jan. 21 Supp.)
10.28   DELETED PROPERTY FROM CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
The following described property is hereby removed from the tax increment
financing district for the Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development
District:
SW ¼ of the SE ¼ of Section 22, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th
Principal Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa Except Lot 1 part of the SW ¼ of the
SE ¼ of Section 22 and part of the NW ¼ of the NE ¼ of Section 27. NW ¼ of the
NE ¼ of Section 27, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal
Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa Except Lot 1 part of the SW ¼ of the SE ¼ of
Section 22 and part of the NW ¼ of the NE ¼ of Section 27. SW ¼ of the SE ¼ of
Section 22, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian in
Dubuque County, Iowa. SW ¼ of the SW ¼ of Section 23, Township 89 North, Range
2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa. NE ¼ of the NE ¼
of Section 27, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian in
Dubuque County, Iowa. NW ¼ of the NW ¼ of Section 26, Township 89 North, Range
2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa. Lot 1 of the SW ¼
of the NW ¼ of Section 26, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal
Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa. Lot 2 of Trinity Acres of the SE ¼ of the NE
¼ of Section 27, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian
in Dubuque County, Iowa.
No division of property tax revenues as provided under Section 403.19 of the
Code of Iowa shall be done with respect to the deleted property without further
action by the City Council.
(Section 10.28 – Ord. 842 – Jul. 22 Supp.)
10.29   JUNE 2022 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
The provisions of this section apply to the June, 2022 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District of the City, the legal
description of which is set out below, approved by the City Council by
resolution adopted on June 20, 2022:
Certain real property situated in the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, State
of Iowa more particularly described as follows:
SW ¼ of the SE ¼ of Section 22, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th
Principal Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa Except Lot 1 part of the SW ¼ of the
SE ¼ of Section 22 and part of the NW ¼ of the NE ¼ of Section 27. NW ¼ of the
NE ¼ of Section 27, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal
Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa Except Lot 1 part of the SW ¼ of the SE ¼ of
Section 22 and part of the NW ¼ of the NE ¼ of Section 27. SW ¼ of the SE ¼ of
Section 22, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian in
Dubuque County, Iowa. SW ¼ of the SW ¼ of Section 23, Township 89 North, Range
2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa. NE ¼ of the NE ¼
of Section 27, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian in
Dubuque County, Iowa. NW ¼ of the NW ¼ of Section 26, Township 89 North, Range
2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa. Lot 1 of the SW ¼
of the NW ¼ of Section 26, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal
Meridian in Dubuque County, Iowa. Lot 2 of Trinity Acres of the SE ¼ of the NE
¼ of Section 27, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th Principal Meridian
in Dubuque County, Iowa.
After the effective date of this Ordinance No. 846, the taxes levied on the
taxable property in the 2022 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for
the benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district
or other taxing district in which the 2022 Urban Renewal Area Addition is
located, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the 2022 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the 2022 Urban Renewal Area
Addition on the effective date of this ordinance, but to which the territory
has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment
roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the
plan for the 2022 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed area,
shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in
the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of Ordinance No. 846. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the 2022 Urban
Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property
in such area as shown by the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of
this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property
in the 2022 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the
same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans, advances,
indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been paid, all
money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the 2022
Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the respective
taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 1 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
(Section 10.29 – Ord. 846 – Jul. 22 Supp.)
10.30 DELETED PROPERTY FROM CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
The following described property is hereby removed from the tax increment
financing district for the Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development
District:
Lot 4 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, In the City of Dyersville,
Delaware County, Iowa.
No division of property tax revenues as provided under Section 403.19 of the
Code of Iowa shall be done with respect to the deleted property without further
action by the City Council.
(Section 10.30 – Ord. 848 – Oct. 22 Supp.)
10.31 SEPTEMBER 2022 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (DUBUQUE CO.).
The provisions of this section apply to the September 2022 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District of the City, the legal
description of which is set out below, approved by the City Council by
resolution adopted on September 6, 2022:
Lot 1 of Bries’ Subdivision, City of Dysersville, Dubuque County, Iowa;
AND
Lot 1 of Reittinger Place Lying within Section 26 and 27, Township 89 North,
Range 2 West of 5th P.M., in the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa.
After the effective date of this Ordinance No. 849, the taxes levied on the
taxable property in the 2022 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for
the benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district
or other taxing district in which the 2022 Urban Renewal Area Addition is
located, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the 2022 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the 2022 Urban Renewal Area
Addition on the effective date of this ordinance, but to which the territory
has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment
roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the
plan for the 2022 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed area,
shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in
the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of this ordinance. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the 2022 Urban
Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property
in such area as shown by the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of
this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property
in the 2022 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the
same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans, advances,
indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been paid, all
money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the 2022
Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the respective
taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
(Section 10.31 – Ord. 849 – Oct. 22 Supp.)
10.32 SEPTEMBER 2022 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (DELAWARE CO.).
The provisions of this section apply to the September 2022 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District of the City, the legal
description of which is set out below, approved by the City Council by
resolution adopted on September 6, 2022:
Lot 4 of 20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, City of Dyersville,
Delaware County, Iowa.
After the effective date of this Ordinance No. 850, the taxes levied on the
taxable property in the 2022 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for
the benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district
or other taxing district in which the 2022 Urban Renewal Area Addition is
located, shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the 2022 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the 2022 Urban Renewal Area
Addition on the effective date of this ordinance, but to which the territory
has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment
roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the
plan for the 2022 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed area,
shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in
the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of this ordinance. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the 2022 Urban
Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property
in such area as shown by the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of
this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property
in the 2022 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the
same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans, advances,
indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been paid, all
money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the 2022
Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the respective
taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
(Section 10.32 – Ord. 850 – Oct. 22 Supp.)
10.33 DELETED PROPERTY FROM CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
The following described property is hereby removed from the tax increment
financing district for the Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development
District:
PART OF THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 22 AND PART
OF THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF THE NORTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 27, ALL IN
TOWNSHIP 89 NORTH, RANGE 2 WEST FOF THE 5TH P.M., CITY OF DYESRVILLE, DUBUQUE
COUNTY, IOWA, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRBIED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT THE
NORTHWEST CORNER OF LOT 1 IN PART OF THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST
QUARTER OF SECTION 22 AND PART OF THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF THE NORTHEAST
QUARTER OF SECTION 27, ALL IN TOWNSHIP 89 NORTH, RANGE 2 WEST OF THE 5TH P.M.,
CITY OF DYERSVILLE, DUBUQUE COUNTY, IOWA; THENCE N00°10’09”E, 20.00 FEET ALONG
THE WEST LINE OF THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SAID SECTION
22; THENCE S89°43’03”E, 543.38 FEET; THENCE S00°15’28”W, 648.75 FEET TO THE
NORTH LINE OF SAID LOT 1; THENCE N54°40’42”W, 307.07 FEET ALONG THE NORTHERLY
LINE OF SAID LOT l; THENCE N00°15’48”E, 452.45 FEET ALONG THE EASTERLY LINE OF
SAID LOT l; THENCE N89°43’03”W, 292.05 FEET ALONG THE NORTH LINE OF SAID LOT 1
TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING, CONTAINING 3.37 ACRES, WHICH INCLUDES 0.02 ACRES OF
EXISING PUBLIC ROAD RIGHT OF WAY
No division of property tax revenues as provided under Section 403.19 of the
Code of Iowa shall be done with respect to the deleted property without further
action by the City Council.
(Section 10.33 – Ord. 860 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
10.34 DELETED PROPERTY FROM CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
The following described property is hereby removed from the tax increment
financing district for the Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development
District:
Certain real property bearing Delaware County Property Tax Parcel
Identification Number 540000200192, more particularly described as:
20 West Industrial Center Fifth Addition, Lot 2, City of Dyersville, Delaware
County, Iowa;
AND
Certain real property bearing Delaware County Property Tax Parcel
Identification Numbers 540000100160 and 210020000620, more particularly
described as:
20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, Part of Lot C, City of Dyersville,
Delaware County, Iowa;
AND
Certain real property bearing Delaware County Property Tax Parcel
Identification Number 540000200171, more particularly described as:
20 West Industrial Center Seventh Addition, Lot 1, City of Dyersville, Delaware
County, Iowa.
(Section 10.34 – Ord. 864 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
10.35 NOVEMBER 2024 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
The provisions of this section apply to the November 2024 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District of the City, the legal
description of which is set out below, approved by the City Council by
resolution adopted on November 4, 2024:
Certain real property bearing Delaware County Property Tax Parcel
Identification Number 540000200192, more particularly described as:
20 West Industrial Center Fifth Addition, Lot 2, City of Dyersville, Delaware
County, Iowa;
AND
Certain real property bearing Delaware County Property Tax Parcel
Identification Numbers 540000100160 and 210020000620, more particularly
described as:
20 West Industrial Center Fourth Addition, Part of Lot C, City of Dyersville,
Delaware County, Iowa;
AND
Certain real property bearing Delaware County Property Tax Parcel
Identification Number 540000200171, more particularly described as:
20 West Industrial Center Seventh Addition, Lot 1, City of Dyersville, Delaware
County, Iowa.
After the effective date of this ordinance, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the 2024 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the 2024 Urban Renewal Area Addition is located,
shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the 2024 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds
payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing
district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other property
taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing
district which did not include the territory in the 2024 Urban Renewal Area
Addition on the effective date of this ordinance, but to which the territory
has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment
roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the
plan for the 2024 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed area,
shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in
the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of this ordinance. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the 2024 Urban
Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property
in such area as shown by the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of
this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property
in the 2024 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the
same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans, advances,
indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been paid, all
money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the 2024
Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the respective
taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
(Section 10.35 – Ord. 865 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
10.36 DELETED PROPERTY FROM CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
The following described property is hereby removed from the tax increment
financing district for the Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development
District:
Certain real property bearing Delaware County Property Tax Parcel
Identification Number 540000100271 more particularly described as Lot 2 of
Westridge Estates 12th Addition, City of Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa.
No division of property tax revenues as provided under Section 403.19 of the
Code of Iowa shall be done with respect to the deleted property without further
action by the City Council.
(Section 10.36 – Ord. 867 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
10.37 2025 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
The provisions of this section apply to the April 2025 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District of the City, the legal
description of which is set out below, approved by the City Council by
resolution adopted on April 21, 2025:
Certain real property bearing Delaware County Property Tax Parcel
Identification Number 540000100271 more particularly described as Lot 2 of
Westridge Estates 12th Addition, City of Dyersville, Delaware County, Iowa.
After the effective date of this ordinance, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the 2025 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the 2025 Urban Renewal Area Addition is located,
shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the 2025 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor of the County, the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness,
or bonds payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall
be allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective
taxing district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other
property taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for
any taxing district which did not include the territory in the 2025 Urban
Renewal Area Addition on the effective date of this ordinance, but to which the
territory has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the
assessment roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1
of the calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends
the plan for the 2025 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed area,
shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in
the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of this ordinance. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the 2025 Urban
Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property
in such area as shown by the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of
this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property
in the 2025 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the
same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans, advances,
indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been paid, all
money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the 2025
Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the respective
taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
(Section 10.37 – Ord. 868 – Jul. 25 Supp.)
10.38 2025 ADDITION TO THE CONSOLIDATED DYERSVILLE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT.
The provisions of this section apply to the April 2025 Addition to the
Consolidated Dyersville Economic Development District of the City, the legal
description of which is set out below, approved by the City Council by
resolution adopted on April 21, 2025:
Certain real property bearing Dubuque County Property Tax Parcel Identification
Number 0732304003 more particularly described as Lot 1-5 of Burkle’s
Subdivision and Lot 2 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 1 of Lot 2 of Lot 7, of the
Southwest ¼ of Section 32, Township 89 North, Range 2 West of the 5th P.M., in
the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, Iowa; and,
All of the public right-of-way of Highway 52 situated within the corporate
limits of the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, State of Iowa; and,
All of the public right-of-way of 12th Street SE situated with the corporate
limits of the City of Dyersville, Dubuque County, State of Iowa.
After the effective date of this ordinance, the taxes levied on the taxable
property in the 2025 Urban Renewal Area Addition each year by and for the
benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County and any school district or
other taxing district in which the 2025 Urban Renewal Area Addition is located,
shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the 2025 Urban
Renewal Area Addition, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the
calendar year preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to
the County Auditor of the County the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness,
or bonds payable from the special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall
be allocated to and when collected be paid into the fund for the respective
taxing district as taxes by or for said taxing district into which all other
property taxes are paid. For the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for
any taxing district which did not include the territory in the 2025 Urban
Renewal Area Addition on the effective date of this ordinance, but to which the
territory has been annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the
assessment roll applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1
of the calendar year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends
the plan for the 2025 Urban Renewal Area Addition to include the annexed area,
shall be used in determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in
the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1), of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program levy of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of
the Code of Iowa and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of this ordinance. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the 2025 Urban
Renewal Area Addition exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property
in such area as shown by the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of
this section, all of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property
in the 2025 Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the
respective taxing districts as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the
same manner as all other property taxes. When such loans, advances,
indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and interest thereon, have been paid, all
money thereafter received from taxes upon the taxable property in the 2025
Urban Renewal Area Addition shall be paid into the funds for the respective
taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
(Section 10.38 – Ord. 869 – Jul. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 11
URBAN REVITALIZATION AREA
11.01   DESIGNATION OF REVITALIZATION AREA.
In accordance with Chapter 404 of the Code of Iowa, the following described
area of the City is hereby designated as the Dyersville Residential Urban
Revitalization Area.
All real property situated within the incorporated municipal limits of the City
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
   1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
except for supervisory duties delegated to the City Administrator, give
direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments, and
have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
   3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain
the reasons for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the
veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 & 380.6[2])
   5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
   6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered
into in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the
City where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law,
ordinance, or Council direction.
   7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf
of the City.
   8.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
   The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
   1.   Mayor Pro Tem
   2.   City Attorney
   3.   Police Chief
   4.   Fire Chief
   5.   Park and Recreation Commission
   6.   Library Board of Trustees
15.04   COMPENSATION.
   The salary of the Mayor is $8,000.00 per year, payable weekly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.05   VOTING.
   The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem
shall perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the
Mayor to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the
Mayor Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from
employment officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint,
employ, or discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
   The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
   If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of two Council Members elected at large and one Council
Member from each of three wards as established by the Code of Ordinances,
elected for overlapping terms of four years.
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   2.   Wards. By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based
upon population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or create new
wards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])
   3.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16 & 384.38[1])
   4.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   5.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
   6.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other
elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not
become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of a
regular City election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes
effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council
members elected at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
   The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
   1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
   2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:
      A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
      B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
      C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
      D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
      E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage
and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of
the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section 5.06 of this
Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council meetings are the
following:
   1.   Regular Meetings. The regular meetings of the Council are on the first
and third Mondays of each month at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers at City
Hall.
   2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor
or upon the written request of two members of the Council. Notice of a special
meeting shall specify the date, time, place, and subject of the meeting and
such notice shall be served by U.S. Mail or personally served upon each member
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
   4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
   The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their
powers, duties, compensation, and term of office:
   1.   City Clerk
   2.   Deputy Clerk
   3.   City Administrator
   4.   Planning and Zoning Commission
   5.   Zoning Board of Adjustment
17.06   COMPENSATION.
   The salary of each Council member is $40.00 for each meeting of the Council
attended.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   At its first meeting in January following the regular City election, the
Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk to serve for a term of two
years. The Clerk shall receive such compensation as established by resolution
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
   The Clerk or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances,
and the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
   Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting, the Clerk shall cause
the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published. Such publication shall
include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall
show the gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
   The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 & 2])
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
   The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments,
proceedings, and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
   1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
   2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of
Ordinances or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City.
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
   The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
   The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district,
building lines, or fire limits, and a plat showing the district, lines, or
limits to the recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
   1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances
and codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
   2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents, or accurate
reproductions, for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents, or accurate reproductions,
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the
final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records, and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating to
real property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 & 5])
   4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of
any record, paper, or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 & 5] and 380.7[5])
   5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
   The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to
offices in the City government of their positions and the time at which they
shall assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   ELECTIONS.
   The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13   CITY SEAL.
   The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the
Clerk to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or
proper to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of
which are the word “IOWA” and around the margin of which are the words “CITY OF
DYERSVILLE” and “CITY SEAL.”
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
   The City Clerk is the Treasurer and performs all functions required of the
position of Treasurer.
19.02   COMPENSATION.
   The Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing the duties of
the Treasurer.
19.03   DUTIES OF TREASURER.
   The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
   2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
   3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received.
   4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
   5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by
the Treasurer from special assessments.
   6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
   7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s
books and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of
each fund and amounts received and disbursed.
   8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
   9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.02 Attorney for City            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.08 Prepare Documents
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.09 Representation of City Employees
20.05 Review and Comment
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The Mayor shall appoint a City Attorney to serve at the pleasure of the
Mayor. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as established by
resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
   The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters
affecting the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any
court, tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or
defend all actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court and when so signed the City, shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
   The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving
an opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to
or coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
   The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts,
forms, and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.09   REPRESENTATION OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The City Attorney shall not appear on behalf of any City officer or employee
before any court or tribunal for the purely private benefit of said officer or
employee. The City Attorney shall, however, if directed by the Council, appear
to defend any City officer or employee in any cause of action arising out of or
in the course of the performance of the duties of his or her office or
employment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.8)
CHAPTER 21
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
 
21.01 Office Created 21.03 Duties
21.02 Compensation   21.04 Residency Requirement
 
21.01   OFFICE CREATED.
   There is hereby created the office of City Administrator. The office shall
be filled by a resolution adopted by a majority vote of the entire Council. The
person so appointed shall hold office at the pleasure of the Council and shall
be subject to removal by a resolution adopted by a majority vote of the entire
Council. The qualifications for the position shall include competency through
education or experience to perform the duties imposed upon the Administrator.
21.02   COMPENSATION.
   The compensation for the Administrator, including expenses, shall be in an
amount and in the form as may from time to time be fixed by the Council by
resolution. The Council is hereby authorized, in its discretion, to enter into
employment contracts with the Administrator as may be necessary for his or her
employment.
21.03   DUTIES.
   The general duties of the office are to administer the activities, policies,
and procedures of the City government. The Administrator is directly
responsible to the Mayor and Council for the administration of municipal
affairs as directed by the Mayor or Council. The department directors, except
the Clerk, for those matters specifically delegated to the Clerk by the Code of
Iowa, shall report to the Administrator. The Administrator is directly
responsible to the Council and Mayor for the administration of municipal
affairs as directed by the Council or Mayor; however, in the event of
conflicting directives, the Council’s directive shall control. All departmental
activity other than the Police Department investigative or enforcement matters
requiring the attention of the Council shall be brought before the Council by
the Administrator and all Council involvement in administration initiated by
the Council shall be through the Administrator. This does not preclude
department heads or City employees from bringing matters to the attention of
the Mayor or Council. Without limiting the foregoing, the duties of the
Administrator include the following:
   1.   Supervise enforcement and execution of City laws and assure
resolutions, ordinances, laws, and Council directives and operational policies
are enforced and executed, or referred to the proper official for compliance.
   2.   Attend meetings of the Council, unless excused by the Mayor.
   3.   Recommend to the Council measures necessary or expedient for good
government and welfare of the City, including evaluation, development, and
updating operating procedures and policies.
   4.   Provide general supervision and direction for the administration of
City government to expedite efficient administration of City’s business.
      5.   Supervise the performance of contracts for work to be done for the
City, and all purchases of material and supplies; ensure that material and
supplies are received and are of the quality and specification called for by
the contract, and consult with department heads with reference to said
contracts.
   6.   Cooperate and advise present or future administrative agencies, boards,
or commissions which are responsible to the Mayor and Council.
   7.   Together with the Clerk, communicate, and keep the Council fully
informed of the condition of City departments, including their financial
management, progress, budgets, background or historical information, future
needs, goals, and objectives in language and format for public consumption.
   8.   Introduce new and approved methods for the elimination of wasteful
practices following modern municipal procedures and law requirements.
   9.   Perform administrative duties designated by resolution of the Council.
   10.   Advise the Council on participation in programs and policies with
other government political subdivisions, including city, county, state, or
federal entities, and/or which may be affected by court decisions, liability.
or other related matters and suggest and coordinate City grant proposals.
   11.   Participate in public relations and public information activities and
programs to keep the public informed through speeches, attending meetings, and
attending social gatherings, and provide information to the media.
   12.   Provide to the Council periodic itemized financial reports in writing
concerning current and completed projects.
   13.   Assist in budget preparation as directed by the Council. Department
heads shall make their budget presentations to the Council. The City
Administrator shall coordinate the final budget preparation.
   14.   Coordinate with the Clerk to cause accurate records of the City to be
kept.
   15.   Order the abatement of nuisances at City expense.
   16.   Recommend the hiring or discharging of all employees of the City
except the Clerk, Public Works Supervisor, and Police Chief. This shall not
include employees appointed by the Mayor or Council under other ordinances.
      A.   All employees of the City’s administrative staff shall be
recommended for hiring or discharge by the joint recommendation of the Clerk,
the City Administrator, and the City Council Policy and Administration
Committee.
      B.   All employees of the Police Department shall be recommended for
hiring or discharge by the joint recommendation of the Police Chief, the City
Administrator, and the City Council Community Protection Committee.
      C.   All employees of the Public Works Department shall be recommended
for hiring or discharge by the joint recommendation of the City Administrator
and the Chairpersons of the City Council Streets Committee and the City Council
Water and Sanitation Committee.
      D.   All other employees of the City shall be recommended for hiring or
discharge by the joint recommendation of the City Administrator and the
appropriate committee of the Council.
   17.   Obtain for the City, upon order of the Council, such specialized and
professional services deemed necessary by the Council and not already available
to the City.
   18.   Serve as City liaison with local economic development groups.
   19.   Administer and enforce the City’s Zoning Ordinance.
   20.   Perform such other duties as the Council may direct.
21.04   RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The City Administrator shall, no later than six months after appointment,
become a resident of the City and continued residency in the City is a
requirement for continued employment with the City.
CHAPTER 22
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
22.01 Public Library                   22.07 Nonresident Use
22.02 Library Trustees                 22.08 Expenditures
22.03 Qualifications of Trustees       22.09 Annual Report
22.04 Organization of the Board        22.10 Injury to Books or Property
22.05 Powers and Duties                22.11 Theft
22.06 Contracting with Other Libraries 22.12 Notice Posted
 
22.01   PUBLIC LIBRARY.
   The public library for the City is known as the James Kennedy Public
Library. It is referred to in this chapter as the Library.
22.02   LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
   The Library is under the control and direction of the Board of Library
Trustees, hereinafter referred to as the Board. The Board consists of nine
members appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council. At least one,
but no more than two members, may be nonresidents. As the terms of office of
the Board members expire, the Mayor, with the approval of the Council, shall
appoint successors, each of whom shall hold office until his or her successor
is appointed and qualifies.
22.03   QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
   All resident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents
of the City. The nonresident members of the Board shall be a bona fide citizens
and residents from areas which contract with the Library for library service.
Members shall be over the age of 18 years.
22.04   ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
   The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
   1.   Term of Office. All appointments to the Board shall be for four years,
except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July first. Any Trustee
serving an unexpired term with more than four years remaining as of the
effective date of Ordinance No. 717, codified by this subsection, shall be
allowed to serve the remaining portion of said term.
   2.   Vacancies. Vacancies occurring on the Board through death, resignation,
or permanent removal from the City or contracting area shall be filled by the
Mayor with the approval of the Council, but such appointment shall be only for
the remainder of the unexpired term. In the event an area ceases to contract
with the City, a nonresident Trustee from that area shall cease as Trustee at
the same time the area’s contract expires or terminates, and such vacancy shall
be filled in the same manner as a resignation if any portion of such Trustee’s
term remains.
   3.   Compensation. Trustees shall receive no compensation for their
services.
22.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Officers. To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary,
and such other officers as it deems necessary. The City Treasurer serves as
Board Treasurer but is not a member of the Board.
   2.   Physical Plant. To have charge, control, and supervision of the
Library, its appurtenances, fixtures and rooms containing the same.
   3.   Charge of Affairs. To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
   4.   Hiring of Personnel. To employ a Librarian, and authorize the Librarian
to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary for the proper
management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided, however, prior
to such employment, the compensation of the Librarian, assistants, and
employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of the members of
the Board voting in favor thereof.
   5.   Removal of Personnel. To remove the Librarian, by a two-thirds vote of
the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
   6.   Purchases. To select, or authorize the Librarian to select, and make
purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps, journals,
other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and supplies for the
Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
   7.   Use by Nonresidents. To authorize the use of the Library by
nonresidents and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service
exists.
   8.   Rules and Regulations. To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the
law, for the care, use, government, and management of the Library and the
business of the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
   9.   Expenditures. To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds
allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys available by
gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of all other
moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals collected under the
rules of the Board.
   10.   Gifts. To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed
property, and devises and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title to
said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills of sale
for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them
from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.
   11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts. To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises, and bequests accepted
by the City by action against the Council.
   12.   Record of Proceedings. To keep a record of its proceedings.
   13.   County Historical Association. To have authority to make agreements
with the local County historical association where such exists, and to set
apart the necessary room and to care for such articles as may come into the
possession of the association. The Trustees are further authorized to purchase
necessary receptacles and materials for the preservation and protection of such
articles as are in their judgment of a historical and educational nature and
pay for the same out of funds allocated for Library purposes.
22.06   CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
   The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Contracting. The Board may contract with any other boards of trustees
of free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 & Ch. 28E)
   2.   Termination. Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election. The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law which is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract.
22.07   NONRESIDENT USE.
   The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of
the City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
   1.   Lending. By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee.
   2.   Depository. By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents.
   3.   Bookmobiles. By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that
books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
   4.   Branch Library. By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents.
22.08   EXPENDITURES.
   All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of
the Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library. Expenditures
shall be paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and
Secretary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 & 392.5)
22.09   ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of
the fiscal year. This report shall contain statements as to the condition of
the Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount of
fines collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of the
Library during the year, together with such further information as may be
required by the Council.
22.10   INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear,
deface, mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper,
periodical, book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture, or other property belonging to
the Library or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
22.11   THEFT.
   No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with
the intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
22.12   NOTICE POSTED.
   There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices
informing the public of the following:
   1.   Failure to Return. Failure to return Library materials for two months
or more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material or equipment is overdue and
criminal actions will be taken, has been made to reclaim the materials or
equipment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
   2.   Detention and Search. Persons concealing Library materials may be
detained and searched pursuant to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies
 
23.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.  
   The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of 7 (seven) members who are residents of the City. The
resident members shall be appointed by the Council and shall not hold any
elective office in the City government.   
(Ord. 856 – Oct. 23 Supp.)
23.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be five years. The
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03   VACANCIES.
   If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise,
a successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the same manner
as the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04   COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its
first regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as
Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
the Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and
duties and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other
related matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes, or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
   4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of
subdivisions or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid
out in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to
the Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the
Mayor and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 24
PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION
 
24.01 Created       24.04 Term of Office
24.02 Membership    24.05 Powers
24.03 Qualification
 
24.01   CREATED.
A Park and Recreation Commission is created.
24.02   MEMBERSHIP.
   There shall be appointed by the Mayor, with approval of the Council, seven
members to serve on the Commission. Vacancies on the Commission shall be filled
in the same manner.
24.03   QUALIFICATION.
   All members shall be qualified electors of the City and shall serve without
compensation.
24.04   TERM OF OFFICE.
   The full term of office of each member of the Commission is three years.
24.05   POWERS.
   The Council may confer on such Commission all or any part of its powers in
relation to the parks, playgrounds, and community facilities for other forms of
recreation.
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established       30.06 Peace Officers Appointed
30.02 Organization                 30.07 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.03 Peace Officer Qualifications 30.08 Departmental Rules
30.04 Required Training            30.09 Summoning Aid
30.05 Compensation                 30.10 Taking Weapons
 
30.01   DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02   ORGANIZATION.
   The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03   PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
   In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04   REQUIRED TRAINING.
   All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law
at an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(IAC, 501-3 and 501-8)
30.05   COMPENSATION.
   Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06   PEACE OFFICERS APPOINTED.
   The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief subject to the consent
of a majority of the Council. The powers, duties, compensation, and terms of
employment shall be established by resolution of the Council. Upon
recommendation of the Police Chief, the Council shall confirm the other members
of the department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07   POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
   2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring
all persons committing any offense before the proper court.
   3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
   4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to
the State Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
   5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
   6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
   7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for
the prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
   8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest, and the disposition of the
charge. Said records shall be retained in accordance with the following
schedule:
      A.   Traffic - 5 years
      B.   Misdemeanors:
         Simple - 5 years
         Serious - 10 years
         Aggravated - 10 years
      C.   Felonies - Indefinite
   9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
as well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
   10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and
all civilian personnel employed by the department, and be responsible for the
care, maintenance, use and assignment of all vehicles, equipment and materials
of the department.
30.08   DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
   The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code
of Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary
for the operation of the department.
30.09   SUMMONING AID.
   Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10   TAKING WEAPONS.
   Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items
that are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have
within such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
35.01 Establishment and Purpose 35.09 Constitution
35.02 Organization              35.10 Accidental Injury Insurance
35.03 Approved by Council       35.11 Liability Insurance
35.04 Training                  35.12 Calls Outside City
35.05 Compensation              35.13 Mutual Aid
35.06 Fire Chief Appointed      35.14 Authority to Cite Violations
35.07 Duties of Fire Chief      35.15 Emergency Rescue Service
35.08 Obedience to Fire Chief
 
35.01   ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)
35.02   ORGANIZATION.
   The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and
personnel as may be authorized by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.03   APPROVED BY COUNCIL.
   No person having otherwise qualified shall be appointed to the department
until such appointment is submitted to and approved by a majority of the
Council members.
35.04   TRAINING.
   All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])
35.05   COMPENSATION.
   Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.06   FIRE CHIEF APPOINTED.
   The Fire Chief shall be appointed and serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.07   DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including (but not limited to) the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Enforce Laws. Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire prevention
and the investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
   2.   Technical Assistance. Upon request, give advice concerning private fire
alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits, and
development of fire emergency plans.
   3.   Authority at Fires. When in charge of a fire scene, direct an operation
as necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue operation,
investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak, or other
hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the department’s duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   4.   Control of Scenes. Prohibit an individual, vehicle, or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel,
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire
Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
   5.   Authority to Barricade. When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades, or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the Fire
Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
   6.   Command. Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline, and control of the Fire Department. The members of the Fire
Department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.
   7.   Property. Exercise and have full control over the disposition of all
fire apparatus, tools, equipment, and other property used by or belonging to
the Fire Department.
   8.   Notification. Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property damage
in excess of $200,000.00 has occurred as a result of a fire, or if arson is
suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s Division immediately. For all other
fires causing an estimated damage of $50.00 or more or emergency responses by
the Fire Department, file a report with the Fire Marshal’s Division within 10
days following the end of the month. The report must indicate all fire
incidents occurring and state the name of the owners and occupants of the
property at the time of the fire, the value of the property, the estimated
total loss to the property, origin of the fire as determined by investigation,
and other facts, statistics, and circumstances concerning the fire incidents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 & 100.3)
   9.   Right of Entry. Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
making such investigation or inspection that under law or ordinance may be
necessary to be made and that is reasonably necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.12)
   10.   Recommendation. Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers, or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.13)
   11.   Assist State Fire Marshal. At the request of the State Fire Marshal,
and as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of duties by
investigating, preventing, and reporting data pertaining to fires.
   12.   Records. Cause to be kept records of the Fire Department personnel,
firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and apparatus, the number
of responses to alarms, their cause, and location, and an analysis of losses by
value, type, and location of buildings.
   13.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
of the status and activities of the department as well as such other reports as
may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
35.08   OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief.
35.09   CONSTITUTION.
   The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated
to accomplish the object contemplated, and such constitution and bylaws and any
change or amendment to such constitution and bylaws before being effective,
must be approved by the Council.
35.10   ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.
   The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City. All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61 and Sec. 410.18)
35.11   LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or
members of the department for injuries, death, or property damage arising out
of and resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside
the corporate limits of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 & 517A.1)
35.12   CALLS OUTSIDE CITY.
   The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
City limits if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the City limits.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])
35.13   MUTUAL AID.
   Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter
into mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments.
Copies of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])
35.14   AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
   Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 100 of the Code of Iowa
may issue citations in accordance to Chapter 805 of the Code of Iowa, for
violations of State and/or local fire safety regulations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
35.15   EMERGENCY RESCUE SERVICE.
   The department is authorized to provide emergency ambulance or rescue
services, and the accidental injury and liability insurance provided for herein
shall include such operation.
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Liability
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
   In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal, and cleanup of
hazardous substance spills within the City limits.
36.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control,
identify, analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
   2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual,
imminent, or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance
onto the land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates
an immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
   3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
   4.   “Person having control of a hazardous substance” means a person who at
any time produces, handles, stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a
hazardous substance, the release of which creates a hazardous condition,
including bailees, carriers, and any other person in control of a hazardous
substance when a hazardous condition occurs, whether the person owns the
hazardous substance or is operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement
with the legal owner of the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
36.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
   Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection,
dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the
hazardous substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the
environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including
ground waters, the person having control of a hazardous substance shall cause
the condition to be remedied by a cleanup, as defined in the preceding section,
as rapidly as feasible to an acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup
shall be borne by the person having control of a hazardous substance. If the
person having control of a hazardous substance does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the person having control of a hazardous substance
for all costs associated with the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished
within the deadline. In the event that it is determined that immediate cleanup
is necessary as a result of the present danger to the public health, safety,
and welfare, then no notice shall be required and the City may proceed to
procure the cleanup and bill the person having control of a hazardous substance
for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for those services is
not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to obtain payment by
all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the capacity of the City
to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the Council and
immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said cleanup.
36.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
   The person having control of a hazardous substance shall be strictly liable
to the City for all of the following:
   1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the person having control of a hazardous
substance to clean up a hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
   2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
   3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of,
or loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction, or loss.
   4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents
of the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused
by that person.
36.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
   1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing
of a hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources
and the Police Department of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as
possible but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous
condition or discovery of the hazardous condition. The Police Department shall
immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources.
   2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
Police Department, which shall then notify the Department of Natural Resources.
36.06   POLICE AUTHORITY.
   If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or
an authorized representative may:
   1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
   2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
36.07   LIABILITY.
   The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries,
or losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the person
having control of a hazardous substance as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault            40.04 Unlawful Assembly
40.02 Harassment         40.05 Failure to Disperse
40.03 Disorderly Conduct 40.06 Riot
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
   No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
   1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
   2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
   3.   Threat with Weapon. Intentionally point any firearm toward another or
display in a threatening manner any dangerous weapon toward another.
However, if the person doing any of the enumerated acts, and such other person,
are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other activity, not in itself
criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable incident of such sport or
activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of serious injury or breach
of the peace, the act is not an assault.
Further, it is not an assault if the person doing any of the enumerated acts is
employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic school, or is an area
education agency staff member who provides services to a school or school
district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or other disruptive
situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or staff member
performing employment duties in a school building, on school grounds, or at an
official school function, regardless of the location, whether the fight or
physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between students or other
individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention is reasonably
necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
   No person shall commit harassment.
   1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
      A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal
act, knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      E.   Disseminates, publishes, distributes, posts, or causes to be
disseminated, published, distributed, or posted a photograph or film showing
another person in a state of full or partial nudity or engaged in a sex act,
knowing that the other person has not consented to the dissemination,
publication, distribution, or posting.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7[5])
   2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person.
   3.   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Full or partial nudity” means the showing of any part of the human
genitals or pubic area or buttocks, or any part of the nipple of the breast of
a female, with less than fully opaque covering.
      B.   “Personal contact” means an encounter in which two or more people
are in visual or physical proximity to each other. “Personal contact” does not
require a physical touching or oral communication, although it may include
these types of contacts.
      C.   “Photographs or films” means the making of any photograph, motion
picture film, videotape, or any other recording or transmission of the image of
a person.
      D.   “Sex act” means the same as defined in Section 702.17 of the Code of
Iowa.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or
in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that
sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1])
   2.   Noise.
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which causes unreasonable distress to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[2])
      B.   Willfully permit upon any premises owned, occupied, possessed, or
controlled by such person any unusually loud or excessive noise in such a
manner calculated to provoke a breach of the peace of others, or the public
quiet of the neighborhood.
   3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[3])
   4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[4])
   5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate
a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such
report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[5])
   6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[6])
      A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
      B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
      C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
      D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
      E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
      F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
This subsection does not apply to a flag retirement ceremony conducted pursuant
to federal law.
   7.   Obstruct Use of Street. Without authority or justification, obstruct
any street, sidewalk, highway, or other public way, with the intent to prevent
or hinder its lawful use by others.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[7])
   8.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
      B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction
by another.
      C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession, or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
   9.   Soliciting Contributions; Peddling on Roadways. Without authority,
solicit contributions, distribute literature, or otherwise peddle or sell goods
and services within the traveled portion of any roadway.
40.04   UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It is unlawful for three or more persons to assemble together, with them or
any of them acting in a violent manner, and with intent that they or any of
them will commit a public offense. No person shall willingly join in or remain
part of an unlawful assembly, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe
it is such.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.2)
40.05   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
40.06   RIOT.
A riot is three or more persons assembled together in a violent manner, to the
disturbance of others, and with any use of unlawful force or violence by them
or any of them against another person, or causing property damage. No person
shall willingly join in or remain a part of a riot, knowing or having
reasonable grounds to believe that it is such.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.1)
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
                                                         41.09 Abandoned or
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  Unattended
                                                         Refrigerators
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.10 Antenna and
Safety Entities                                          Radio Wires
                                                         41.11 Barbed Wire and
                                                         Electric Fences
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.12 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.13 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.05 Refusing Admittance to Officers                    41.14 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.06 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.15 Fireworks
41.07 Interference with Official Acts                    41.16 Horseback Riding
41.08 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control
Device
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any
corrosive, caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person
delivers such into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes
reasonable precautions that the substance will not be taken by children or
animals from the place where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
   No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
   1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department,
a law enforcement authority, or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
   2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center knowing that he or she
is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
   3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
   No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   REFUSING ADMITTANCE TO OFFICERS.
   If any person refuses to admit the Police Chief or any other member of the
police force into any place which such officers may lawfully enter for the
purpose of ascertaining whether a nuisance exists or a crime has been
committed, or resists, obstructs, or attempts to resist or obstruct such
officer while attempting to enter any such place, such person shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
41.06   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   1.   No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public
officer or employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
   2.   It is unlawful for any person to communicate, by any means, any threat
of bodily or property harm to any police officer, member of the Fire
Department, or other City employee or to any member of their families during
the course of or as a result of the performance of any official duty by said
police officer, member of the Fire Department, or City employee in which the
police officer, member of the Fire Department, or City employee is identified
as such.
41.07   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to
be a peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A
of the Code of Iowa, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, or a person
performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the Code of Iowa,
in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the lawful duty or
authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, or person performing bailiff duties, or shall knowingly resist or
obstruct the service or execution by any authorized person of any civil or
criminal process or order of any court. The terms “resist” and “obstruct” as
used in this section do not include verbal harassment unless the verbal
harassment is accompanied by a present ability and apparent intention to
execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.08   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
   No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.09   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
   No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended, and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.10   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
   It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.11   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City except on agriculturally (A-1) zoned properties for
purposes of containing livestock. However, public utilities are permitted to
use barbed wire as a component of fences erected around utility substations to
provide for the safety and security of the facility. Such barbed wire component
must be a minimum of eight feet above grade at all points of said fence.
Invisible fences used for pet containment are exempt.
41.12   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
   2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.13   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind
or to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns,
or other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.14   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
   It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building,
including but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway,
doorway, or window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.15   FIREWORKS.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
   1.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
      A.   “Consumer fireworks” means the following fireworks, as described in
Chapter 3 of the American Pyrotechnics Association (“APA”) Standard 87-1:
         (1)   First-class consumer fireworks:
            a.   Aerial shell kits and reloadable tubes;
            b.   Chasers;
            c.   Helicopters and aerial spinners;
            d.   Firecrackers;
            e.   Mine and shell devices;
            f.   Missile-type rockets;
            g.   Roman candles;
            h.   Sky rockets and bottle rockets;
            i.   Multiple tube devices under this paragraph which are
manufactured in accordance with APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5.
         (2)   Second-class consumer fireworks:
            a.   Cone fountains;
            b.   Cylindrical fountains;
            c.   Flitter sparklers;
            d.   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including multiple
tube ground and hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured in accordance
with APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5;
            e.   Ground spinners;
            f.   Illuminating torches;
            g.   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2;
            h.   Wheels;
            i.   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2.
      B.   “Display fireworks” includes any explosive composition, or
combination of explosive substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration,
or detonation, and includes fireworks containing any explosive or flammable
compound, or other device containing any explosive substance. “Display
fireworks” does not include novelties or consumer fireworks enumerated in
Chapter 3 of the APA Standard 87-1.
      C.   “Novelties” includes all novelties enumerated in Chapter 3 of the
APA Standard 87-1, and that comply with the labeling regulations promulgated by
the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission.
   2.   Display Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode any
display fireworks; provided, the City Council may, upon application in writing,
grant a permit for the display of display fireworks by municipalities, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of individuals
approved by the City when the display fireworks will be handled by a competent
operator, but no such permit shall be required for the display of display
fireworks at the Iowa State Fairgrounds by the Iowa State Fair Board, at
incorporated county fairs, or at district fairs receiving State aid. No permit
shall be granted hereunder unless the operator or sponsoring organization has
filed with the City evidence of insurance in the following amounts:
      A.   Personal Injury:   $250,000.00 per person
      B.   Property Damage:   $50,000.00
      C.   Total Exposure:   $1,000,000.00
   3.   Consumer Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode
consumer fireworks within the City.
   3.   Novelties. This section does not apply to novelties.
41.16   HORSEBACK RIDING.
   1.   No person shall ride any horse or pony on any of the streets, bridle
paths, or thoroughfares within the City at a faster pace than a walk.
   2.   No person shall ride any horse or pony on any public property not
dedicated for roadway or bridle path purposes or upon any private property
without the permission of the owner thereof.
   3.   No person shall ride any horse or pony on any of the streets, bridle
paths, or thoroughfares within the City after dark.
   4.   When any group consisting of more than two persons are riding together
on any street or public thoroughfare within the City, they shall not ride more
than two abreast.
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Other Public Property Offenses
42.04 Unauthorized Entry
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
   1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
   2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
      A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance,
vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or
privately owned.
      B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of
the Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of
the Code of Iowa.
      C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
      D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person
owning, leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this
State.
      E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property
owned, leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
      F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
         (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
         (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
         (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect
of unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
         (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing
therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein
anything animate or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
         (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
         (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
         (7)   Intentionally viewing, photographing, or filming another person
through the window or any other aperture of a dwelling, without legitimate
purpose, while present on the real property upon which the dwelling is located,
or while placing on or retrieving from such property equipment to view,
photograph, or film another person, if the person being viewed, photographed,
or filmed has a reasonable expectation of privacy, and if the person being
viewed, photographed, or filmed does not consent or cannot consent to being
viewed, photographed, or filmed.
   3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
      A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
      B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
   It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down,
or destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement, or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
   No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises, or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06   THEFT.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
   The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
   1.   Chapter 22 – Library
      A.   Section 22.10 – Injury to Books or Property
      B.   Section 22.11 – Theft of Library Property
   2.   Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
      A.   Section 105.06 – Littering Prohibited
   3.   Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
      A.   Section 135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
      B.   Section 135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
      C.   Section 135.03 – Placing Debris On
      D.   Section 135.04 – Playing In
      E.   Section 135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
      F.   Section 135.08 – Burning Prohibited
      G.   Section 135.12 – Dumping of Snow
   4.   Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
      A.   Section 136.08 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
      B.   Section 136.14 – Debris on Sidewalks
CHAPTER 43
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
 
43.01 Purpose                      43.04 Determining Factors
43.02 Controlled Substance Defined 43.05 Possession of Drug Paraphernalia
43.03 Drug Paraphernalia Defined   43.06 Manufacture, Delivery, or Offering For
                                   Sale
 
43.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the use, possession with intent
to use, manufacture, and delivery of drug paraphernalia as defined herein.
43.02   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE DEFINED.
   The term “controlled substance” as used in this chapter is defined as the
term “controlled substance” is defined in the Uniform Controlled Substance Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, as it now exists or is hereafter amended.
43.03   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA DEFINED.
   The term “drug paraphernalia” as used in this chapter means all equipment,
products, and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use, or
designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, concealing, containing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa. It includes, but is not limited to:
   1.   Growing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of
plant which is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can
be derived.
   2.   Processing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substances.
   3.   Isomerization Devices. Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or
designed for use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a
controlled substance.
   4.   Testing Equipment. Testing equipment used, intended for use, or
designed for use in identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or
purity of controlled substances.
   5.   Scales. Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances.
   6.   Diluents. Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, or lactose, used, intended for use, or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances.
   7.   Separators; Sifters. Separation gins and sifters used, intended for
use, or designed for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise
cleaning or refining marijuana.
   8.   Mixing Devices. Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices
used, intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled
substances.
   9.   Containers. Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances.
   10.   Storage Containers. Containers and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
   11.   Injecting Devices. Hypodermic syringes, needles, and other objects
used, intended for use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting
controlled substances into the human body.
   12.   Ingesting-Inhaling Device. Objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing heroin, marijuana,
cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body, such as:
      A.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with
or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
      B.   Water pipes;
      C.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      D.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      E.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such as
a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand;
      F.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
      G.   Chamber pipes;
      H.   Carburetor pipes;
      I.   Electric pipes;
      J.   Air driven pipes;
      K.   Chillums;
      L.   Bongs;
      M.   Ice pipes or chillers.
43.04   DETERMINING FACTORS.
   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia for the purpose of
enforcing this chapter, the following factors should be considered in addition
to all other logically relevant factors:
   1.   Statements. Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the
object concerning its use.
   2.   Prior Convictions. Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone
in control of the object under any State or federal law relating to any
controlled substance.
   3.   Proximity to Violation. The proximity of the object, in time and space,
to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled Substance Act, Chapter 124 of
the Code of Iowa.
   4.   Proximity to Substances. The proximity of the object to controlled
substances.
   5.   Residue. The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object.
   6.   Evidence of Intent. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of
an owner or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom
he or she knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to
facilitate a violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of
the Code of Iowa.
   7.   Innocence of an Owner. The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in
control of the object, as to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, should not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   8.   Instructions. Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use.
   9.   Descriptive Materials. Descriptive materials accompanying the object
explaining or depicting its use.
   10.   Advertising. National and local advertising concerning its use.
   11.   Displayed. The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
   12.   Licensed Distributor or Dealer. Whether the owner, or anyone in
control of the object, is a legitimate supplier of like or related items to the
community, such as a licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
   13.   Sales Ratios. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales
of the object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise.
   14.   Legitimate Uses. The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the
object in the community.
   15.   Expert Testimony. Expert testimony concerning its use.
43.05   POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substance Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
43.06   MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY, OR OFFERING FOR SALE.
   It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver,
manufacture with intent to deliver, or offer for sale drug paraphernalia,
intending that the drug paraphernalia will be used, or knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know that it will be used, or knowing
that it is designed for use to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform
Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 44
NOISE CONTROL
 
44.01 Purpose                           44.05 Noise Disturbance Prohibited
44.02 Definitions                       44.06 Vehicle Noise Limits
44.03 Measurement of Noise and Sound    44.07 Permits
44.04 Test Measurement and Requirements
for Determining National Classification 44.08 Exemptions
of Sound
                                        44.09 Penalties for Offenses Pertaining
                                        to Noise Control
 
44.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to prevent excessive sound, which is a serious
hazard to the public health and the quality of life in the City.
44.02   DEFINITIONS.
All terminology used in this chapter and not defined below shall be in
conformance with applicable publications of the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
   1.   “A or C weighted sound level” means the sound pressure level in
decibels as measured on a sound meter using the A or C weighting network. The
level so read shall be designated dB(A) or dB(C) or dBC.
   2.   “Decibel” means a logarithmic and dimensionless unit of measure used in
describing the amplitude of sound. Decibel is denoted as dB.
   3.   “Emergency work” means work made necessary to restore property to a
safe condition following a public calamity, work to restore public utilities,
or work required to protect persons and property from an imminent danger.
   4.   “Emergency vehicle” means a motor vehicle used in response to a public
calamity or to protect persons and property from imminent danger.
   5.   “Gross vehicle weight” means the value specified by the manufacturer as
the loaded weight of a vehicle.
   6.   “Person” means any individual, association, partnership, corporation or
officer thereof.
   7.   “Sound” means a temporal and spatial oscillation in pressure, or other
physical quantity, in a medium with internal forces that causes compression and
rarefaction of that medium, and which propagates at finite speed to distant
points.
   8.   “Sound level meter” means an instrument, including a microphone,
amplifier, output meter, and weighting networks, that is sensitive to pressure
fluctuations. The output meter reads sound pressure level in decibels when
properly calibrated and the instrument is of Type 2 or better as specified in
American National Standards Institute Publication SI 4-1971, or its successor
publication.
44.03   MEASUREMENT OF NOISE AND SOUND.
The measurement of sound or noise shall be made with a sound level meter
meeting the standards prescribed by the American National Standards Institute.
The instruments shall be maintained in calibration and good working order. A
calibration check shall be made of the system at the time of any noise
measurement. Measurements recorded shall be taken so as to provide a proper
representation of the noise source. The microphone during the measurement shall
be positioned so as not to create any unnatural enhancement or diminution of
the measured voice. A windscreen for the microphone shall be used when
required. The measurement shall be an A weighted or C weighted sound level.
44.04   TEST MEASUREMENT AND REQUIREMENTS FOR DETERMINING NATIONAL
CLASSIFICATION OF SOUND.
   1.   No person participate in the making and creating of an excessive or
unusually loud sound within the City heard and measured in the manner
prescribed below, except when done under and in compliance with a permit issued
by the City.
   2.   It is the duty of persons in a position of ownership, possession or
control of premises to prevent such premises from being the site of activities
producing sound levels in excess of what is permitted under this chapter.
Failure or refusal to perform such duty shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   3.   It is the duty of persons in positions of leadership or responsibility
with respect to unincorporated associations, groups, gatherings, and
assemblages of people to prevent such from causing or making sound levels in
excess of what is permitted under this chapter. Failure or refusal to perform
such duty constitutes a violation of this section.
   4.   For the purpose of determining and classifying any sound as excessive
or unusually loud, the following test measurements and requirements are to be
applied:
      A.   The sound shall be measured at the edge of the City street or alley
right-of-way reasonably appearing to be to the source of the sound. When a
complaint is received, a measurement may also be taken at the location on the
property where the complaining party was disturbed.
      B.   The sound shall be measured on a sound level meter of standard
design and quality operated in an A or C weighting scale.
      C.   A sound measured or registered in excess of the maximum permitted
levels according to the following table, is declared to be excessive and
unusually loud is unlawful.
Neighborhood Characteristic         Maximum Permitted
Residential (between 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.)      80
Residential (between 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.)      65
Commercial                     75
Park or Agriculture                  75
Industrial                     90
44.05   NOISE DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to do or cause any of the following described
activities:
   1.   Use or operate a power lawn mower, power trimmer, or other gasoline or
electric-powered device intended for mowing or trimming a lawn between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   2.   Use or operate a gasoline-powered lawn mower which does not have a
muffler.
   3.   Use or operate a power chain saw between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
   4.   Use or operate, in residential districts, construction equipment
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   5.   Operate in any City park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
any sound equipment, including radios, stereo systems, tape players, or musical
instruments or devices.
Persons operating farm equipment are exempt from the provisions of this
section. In addition, the provisions of this section will be enforced only upon
receipt of a complaint made or filed with City officials. Certification by an
official charged with enforcement of provisions of this section that a noise
disturbance complaint was made shall be sufficient to establish the fact of the
complaint.
44.06   VEHICLE NOISE LIMITS.
It is unlawful for any person to operate or for the owner to cause or permit to
be operated within the public right-of-way in this City, any motor vehicle
which emits a noise in excess of the dB(A) or dB(C) level established in this
section.
   1.   The maximum allowable noise levels for motor vehicles shall be 85 dB(A)
or 85 dB(C) measured at a distance of twenty-five feet.
   2.   No person shall make or cause, permit, or allow to be made, upon a
public way, or in such close proximity to a public way as to be distinctly and
loudly audible upon such public way, any noise of any kind by crying, calling,
or shouting, or by means of any whistle, rattle, bell, hammer, drum, horn,
other musical instrument, wind instrument, mechanical devices, or other similar
device so as to destroy the peace of the neighborhood.
   3.   No person shall cause any vehicle to accelerate in a manner as to
create excessive engine noise at any location within the corporate City limits.
   4.   No person shall cause the engine of any vehicle to cause emit any loud
noise in excess of normal operational noises through normal operation with use
of original equipment devices installed per manufactures specifications.
   5.   This section applies to the total noise from a motor vehicle and shall
not be construed as limiting and precluding the enforcement of any other
provisions of this chapter, and includes radios, cassette players, disc
players, and similar devices associated with motor vehicles.
   6.   The sound may be measured on a sound level meter of standard design and
quality operated on the A or C weighting scale.
44.07   PERMITS.  
Applications for a permit for relief from the provisions up to an additional
5dB(A) and dB(C) of this chapter may be made to the Police Chief or a duly
authorized representative, pursuant to the following procedure:
   1.   All permits must be applied for in writing during normal business hours
stating what devices are to be employed, where they are to be employed, on what
date(s) and at what times of day they are to be used, the nature of the sounds
to be produced or amplified and the number of people in attendance, and the
persons responsible for the activity.
   2.   Permits granted shall state with reasonable specificity the dates,
locations, times, nature of the sound, devices permitted, number of people in
attendance, and the persons responsible for the activity.
   3.   Permits shall not be arbitrarily or unreasonably withheld nor shall the
free expression of ideas or lawful speech be restrained, but sound and noise
producing conduct having no communicative value and serving only to
unreasonably disturb and disrupt the enjoyment of residences and normal
pursuits shall be restrained.
   4.   The Police Chief may prescribe any conditions or requirements deemed
necessary to minimize adverse effects upon the community or the surrounding
neighborhood.
44.08   EXEMPTIONS.  
The requirements, prohibitions, and terms of this chapter shall not apply to
emergency work or to any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or acting in time of emergency. The terms of this section shall
not apply to those activities of a temporary duration, permitted by law
including but not limited to parades, fireworks displays, outdoor warning
systems, nonprofessional athletic contests, all construction work, and all
other authorized activities occurring on government property.
44.09   PENALTIES FOR OFFENSES PERTAINING TO NOISE CONTROL.
   1.   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a municipal
infraction punishable by a penalty as listed in Chapter 4 of this Code of
Ordinances.
   2.   Alternatively, a violation of any provision of this chapter can be
charged by a peace officer of the City as a simple misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
                                                                        45.04 Public
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age                                           Consumption
                                                                        or
                                                                        Intoxication
                                                                        45.05 Open
45.02 Misrepresentation of Age                                          Containers
                                                                        in Motor
                                                                        Vehicles
45.03 Seizure of False or Altered Driver’s License or Nonoperator’s 45.06 Social
Card                                                                    Host
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.  
   1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a liquor control licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[2])
   2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from
any liquor control licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02   MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   1.   A person violating Section 45.01(2) or reasonably believed to be
violating such section may be detained in a reasonable manner and for a
reasonable length of time by a peace officer, owner, operator, or employee of a
public establishment or private club where alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer is
sold or dispensed for off-premises or on-premises consumption for the purpose
of investigating or determining the person’s true age and identity. Such
detention shall not render the detainer criminally or civilly liable for false
arrest, false imprisonment, or unlawful detention.
   2.   The manager of any public establishment that sells alcoholic liquor,
wine or beer for on-premises or off-premises consumption and the manager of any
private club that serves alcoholic liquor, wine or beer for on-premises
consumption is required to post in a conspicuous place a notice stating the
following:
NOTICE TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE
You are subject to a maximum $500.00 fine for attempting to purchase or
otherwise obtain alcoholic liquor, wine or beer or for misrepresenting your age
for the purpose of purchasing alcoholic liquor, wine or beer.
The size of said notice shall be not less than 8½ by 11 inches.
45.03   SEIZURE OF FALSE OR ALTERED DRIVER’S LICENSE OR NONOPERATOR’S CARD.
   1.   If a liquor control licensee or wine or beer permittee or an employee
of the licensee or permittee has a reasonable belief based on factual evidence
that a driver’s license, as defined in Section 321.1, Subsection 20A of the
Code of Iowa, or nonoperator’s identification card issued pursuant to Section
321.190 of the Code of Iowa, offered by a person who wishes to purchase an
alcoholic beverage at the licensed premises is altered or falsified or belongs
to another person, the licensee, permittee, or employee may retain the driver’s
license or nonoperator’s identification card. Within 24 hours, the license or
card shall be delivered to the appropriate City or County law enforcement
agency of the jurisdiction in which the licensed premises is located. When the
license or card is delivered to the appropriate law enforcement agency, the
licensee shall file a written report of the circumstances under which the
license or card was retained. The local law enforcement agency may investigate
whether a violation of section 321.216, 321.216A, or 321.216B of the Code of
Iowa has occurred. If an investigation is not initiated or a probable cause is
not established by the local law enforcement agency, the driver’s license or
nonoperator’s identification card shall be delivered to the person to whom it
was issued. The local law enforcement agency may forward the license or card
with the report to the Department of Transportation for investigation, in which
case, the department may investigate whether a violation of said Section
321.216, 321.216A, or 321.216B has occurred. The Department of Transportation
shall return the license or card to the person to whom it was issued if an
investigation is not initiated or a probable cause is not established.
   2.   Upon taking possession of a driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card as provided in Subsection 1, a receipt for the license or
card with the date and hour of seizure noted shall be provided to the person
from whom the license or card was seized.
   3.   A liquor control licensee or wine or beer permittee or an employee of
the licensee or permittee is not subject to criminal prosecution for, or to
civil liability for damages alleged to have resulted from, the retention and
delivery of a driver’s license or a nonoperator’s identification card which is
taken pursuant to Subsections 1 and 2. This section shall not be construed to
relieve a licensee, permittee, or employee of the licensee or permittee from
civil liability for damages resulting from the use of unreasonable force in
obtaining the altered or falsified driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card or the driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification
card believed to belong to another person.
45.04   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of
Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine
to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using
devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
      D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a
public or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
   2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer upon
the public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic
liquor in any public place, except premises covered by a liquor control
license. A person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer
on public school property or while attending any public or private school-
related function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
   3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
   4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that
the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense.
If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample
of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.05   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section
62.01(50) and (51) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.06   SOCIAL HOST.
A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
eighteen, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Cigarettes and Tobacco 46.02 Contributing to Delinquency
 
46.01   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
   It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.02   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
   It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age
to commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose                47.05 Parks Closed
47.02 Use of Drives Required 47.06 Camping
47.03 Fires                  47.07 Keg Beer
47.04 Littering
 
47.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park
facilities by the general public by establishing rules and regulations
governing the use of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02   USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any car, cycle, or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the City.
47.03   FIRES.
   No fire shall be built, except in a place designated for such purpose, and
such fire shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be
immediately used by some other party.
47.04   LITTERING.
   No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter, or
foreign substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that
purpose.
47.05   PARKS CLOSED.
   No person shall enter or remain within any park between the hours of 12:00
midnight and 6:00 a.m., except those camping in designated areas, public
sidewalks, and public trail systems.   
(Ord. 851 – Jan. 23 Supp.)
47.06   CAMPING.
   No person shall camp in any portion of a park except in portions prescribed
or designated by the Council and the City may refuse camping privileges or
rescind any and all camping privileges for cause.
47.07   KEG BEER.  
No person shall have keg beer within the public parks unless a lawful permit
has been obtained in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 123 of the Code
of Iowa.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Other Conditions       50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
   Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
   1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without
legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water.
   4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
   6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard, or alley, or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof. (See also Section 62.06) 
   7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also Chapter 51) 
   8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
   9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other
vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
   10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
   11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within
1,000 feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or
landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-
off and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or
enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, or breaches of the peace are carried
on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
50.03   OTHER CONDITIONS.
   The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
   1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See Chapter 51)
   2.   Dangerous Buildings (See Chapter 145)
   3.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See Chapter 105)
   4.   Trees (See Chapter 151)
50.04   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance,
public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section 50.06 of this
chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in Section 50.07. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall
contain: † 4   
      A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
      B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
      C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
      D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the
property owner.
   2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or
sent by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance exists
and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Council at a
time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council shall be
conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
   4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred.
The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County
Treasurer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner
as, general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the
assessment to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same
manner and with the same interest rates provided for assessments against
benefited property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
   8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
fails or refuses to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances and the City may proceed consistent with this Code of Ordinances and
Code of Iowa Chapters 657 and 657A and may seek any and all remedies available
to it pursuant to this Code of Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
4 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section 50.06, the
requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures applicable to
municipal infractions as set forth in Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery,
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery, or appliances; iron, steel
or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tinware,
plastic, or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly stacked
firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
   2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the
County Treasurer or unlicensed and having any of the following characteristics:
      A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield,
window, headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
      B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel, or trunk lid.
      C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
      D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
      E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
      F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of
its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to
the public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
   3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on
any private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section 51.04, constitutes a threat to the health
and safety of the citizens and is a nuisance within the meaning of Section
657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk or junk vehicle is kept upon private
property in violation hereof, the owner of or person occupying the property
upon which it is located shall be prima facie liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04   EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within a garage or other enclosed structure.
51.05   NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section 51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement
procedures as outlined in Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
WEEDS AND VEGETATION
 
52.01 Definitions                                   52.04 Failure to Comply
52.02 Maintenance of Parking and Private Property   52.05 Abatement Costs
52.03 Annual Notice of Proposed Abatement of Growth 52.06 Exceptions
 
52.01   DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined for use in this chapter:
   1.   “Chemical control” means the application of herbicide (weed killer) in
strict accordance with the directions on the product and the regulations of the
Code of Iowa and the Iowa Administrative Code, as amended.
   2.   “Developed area” means an area, except for designated agricultural
districts, under one of the City’s zoning districts upon which there exists one
or more houses, businesses, or industrial plants.
   3.   “Farmland” means an area of land suitable for the production of farm
products, those being plants or animals or the by-products thereof which supply
people with food, feed, fiber, or fur, which is entirely, actively, and
currently being used to produce such products.
   4.   “Forest cover” means land which is predominantly wooded.
   5.   “Hazard” means any weed, grasses, or other herbaceous vegetation which
interferes with any sidewalk or the traveled portion of any roadway or alley or
with visibility at any intersection, or traffic control light or site or
constitutes a reasonable health, safety, or fire hazard, or otherwise endangers
life or property.
   6.   “Natural area” means an area of forest cover, wetlands, waterways, and
areas certified as wildlife habitat.
   7.   “Noxious weeds and vegetation” means noxious weeds as defined by the
Code of Iowa or the Iowa Administrative Code, as amended and any other
vegetation, such as but not limited to grass and shrubs.
   8.   “Parking” means the property between a property owner’s lot or property
line and the curb, or the traveled portion of the public street, or the
centerline of the public right of way depending on the absence of a curb or
traveled portion.
   9.   “Property owner” means contract purchaser, if there is one of record,
otherwise the record holder of legal title.
   10.   “Urban street” means the area from curb to curb, or in the absence of
curbing, the traveled portion of the street, of a public highway, street, road,
lane, alley, or similar public way within the jurisdiction of a city, county,
state, or federal government which is generally used for vehicular traffic.
   11.   “Weed official” means the Police Chief or other designee hereby given
the authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   12.   “Wetlands” means an area of one acre or more that is mostly under
water or waterlogged during the spring growing season.
52.02   MAINTENANCE OF PARKING AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   All property owners must maintain their property and the abutting parking
according to the following standards:
   1.   In developed areas and other areas, which lie within one hundred feet
of a developed area or urban street, except for those otherwise hereinafter
regulated, all vegetation, vines, brush, bushes, non-purposefully planted trees
less than three inches in diameter, and noxious weeds as defined by the Code of
Iowa Chapter 317, or other growth, which constitute a health, safety, or fire
hazard must be cut or destroyed by the property owners or occupants in
possession or control of lands, including railroad lands within the City, to a
height comparable to or lower than the groundcover in the surrounding area or
when such growth exceeds six inches in height.
   2.   In areas of forest cover, all vegetation, vines, brush, bushes, non-
purposefully planted trees less than three inches in diameter, and noxious
weeds as defined by the Code of Iowa (Chapter 317), or other growth, which
constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard between the established tree line
and the abutting developed area or urban street must be cut or destroyed by the
property owners or occupants in possession or control of lands to a height
comparable to or lower than the groundcover in the surrounding area or when
such growth exceeds six inches in height.
   3.   All vegetation, weeds, vines, brush, bushes, non-purposefully planted
trees less than three inches in diameter, and noxious weeds as defined by the
Code of Iowa (Chapter 317), or other growth, which constitutes a health,
safety, or fire hazard, which occurs within the public right of way of an urban
street, including any drainage ditch located therein, must be cut or destroyed
by the property owners or occupants in possession or control of the abutting
lands to a height comparable to or lower than the groundcover in the
surrounding area or when such growth exceeds six inches in height.
   4.   Natural areas, farmland, and publicly owned open spaces may exceed the
standards established by this chapter, except that any growth of all
vegetation, weeds, vines, brush, bushes, non-purposefully planted trees less
than three inches in diameter and noxious weeds as defined by the Code of Iowa
(Chapter 317), or other growth, which constitute a health, safety, or fire
hazard must be cut or destroyed when such growth exceeds one and one-half feet
in height.
   5.   In other areas of the City, all vegetation, weeds, vines, brush,
bushes, non-purposefully planted trees less than three inches in diameter and
noxious weeds as defined by the Code of Iowa (Chapter 317), or other growth,
which constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard must be cut or destroyed when
such growth exceeds two feet in height.
   6.   In the event such vegetation, weeds, vines, brush, bushes, non-
purposefully planted trees less than three inches, and noxious weeds as defined
by the Code of Iowa, cannot be destroyed by the usual and ordinary methods
because of the terrain or rough surface of the property, then the weed official
may direct the grading or otherwise leveling of said property, such that a
proper destruction of said weeds, vines, brush, or other growth can be
accomplished. These costs to grade or otherwise level said property will be
billed or assessed as provide in this chapter.
   7.   In the event the City destroys such vegetation, weeds, vines, brush,
bushes, non-purposefully planted trees less than three inches in diameter or
other growth, any loss or damage to crops growing on the property, or other
damage caused to the property must be borne by the owners or occupants of said
property and not by the City or its employees or agents.
   8.   These requirements as outlined above for the maintenance of parking and
private property are in effect no later than April 1 of each year, and
thereafter, through and including November 30 of each year.
   9.   The property owner must keep the abutting parking in repair, free of
holes, excavations, protrusions, or other obstacles, which could cause injury
to the public.
   10.   If the weed official determines that a clear and compelling emergency
exists, the weed official may cause the necessary maintenance required under
this chapter to be done immediately without prior notification the property
owner. The cost for the maintenance of the emergency may be assessed as
provided in this chapter.
52.03   ANNUAL NOTICE OF PROPOSED ABATEMENT OF GROWTH.
   The weed official shall give notice by publication prior to March 15 in a
daily newspaper of general circulation of the City, notifying property owners
or occupants in possession or control of lands, including railroad lands within
the City, of the duty to maintain all vegetation, weeds, vines, brush, bushes,
non-purposefully planted trees less than three inches in diameter, and noxious
weeds as defined by Code of Iowa (Chapter 364), or other growths as required
under this chapter. The notice will further state that the city will cut or
destroy such vegetation, weeds, vines, brush, bushes, non-purposefully planted
trees less than three inches in diameter, and noxious weeds as defined by the
Code of Iowa, or other growths, and bill or assess the cost thereof to the
property owner or occupant in possession or control of lands, including
railroad lands within the City, and that the costs will be assessed against the
property in accordance with this chapter.
52.04   FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   In the event any property owner, or occupant in possession or control of
lands, including railroad lands within the City, fails to cut or destroy such
weeds, vines, brush, bushes, non-purposefully planted trees less than three
inches in diameter, and noxious weeds as defined by the Code of Iowa, or other
growth as above described, the weed official shall destroy such weeds, vines,
brush, bushes, non-purposefully planted trees less than three inches in
diameter, and noxious weeds as defined by the Code of Iowa, or other growth as
above described by cutting or such other method including chemical control, as
may be necessary to make such destruction.
52.05   ABATEMENT COSTS.
   1.   In addition to any other remedy allowed by law, the weed official may
notify, in writing, the property owner, or occupant in possession or control of
any land in the City upon which weeds exist in violation of this chapter. Such
written notice may be by regular mail. Such written notice need only be given
once per calendar year. Such notice should include the following:
      A.   That the property owner or occupant in possession or control of the
land is in violation of this chapter.
      B.   That the property owner or occupant in possession or control of the
land is ordered to cut weeds and vegetation within three days of the date of
the letter.
      C.   That if the property owner or occupant in possession or control of
the land does not cut the weeds and vegetation, that the City or its authorized
agent may cut the weeds and vegetation, and assess the cost of the cutting,
including a reasonable administrative fee, against the owner or occupant in
possession or control of the land.
      D.   That the property owner or occupant in possession or control of the
land will be given an opportunity to pay the assessment, but if it is not paid,
will be assessed against the property for collection in the same manner as
property tax.
      E.   That no further notice shall be given prior to removal of weeds and
vegetation during the current calendar year.
      F.   That the property owner or occupant in possession or control of the
land may request a hearing before the Council within three days of the receipt
of notice.
   2.   Upon completion of the weed abatement, the weed official or the duly
designated person will certify the contracted cost and expenses as provided by
law against the property to be paid as required by law and bill the costs plus
an administrative fee set by the City Administrator to cover the costs for
inspection, notice preparation/mailing, tracking, billing, and any required
services to execute the abatement thereof to the property owner or occupant in
possession or control of lands, including railroad lands within the City. On
invoices not paid within 30 days, there will be an additional fee for
assessment against the property.
   3.   The second or subsequent violation of this chapter will constitute a
municipal infraction and shall be cited and punished accordingly. Additionally,
violations of this chapter may be subject to the penalties provided for in
Chapter 4 of this Code of Ordinances.
   4.   This fee schedule shall be reviewed annually to ensure all costs are
recovered. If adjustments are required, City Council may establish a new fee
schedule by resolution.
   5.   The weed official or any authorized assistant, employee, contracting
agents, or other representatives are hereby expressly authorized to enter upon
private property at all reasonable hours for the purpose of cutting,
destroying, and/or removing such weeds and vegetation in a manner not
inconsistent with terms of this chapter.
52.06   EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exceptions to the provisions of this chapter:
   1.   Vegetable and/or flower gardens, purposefully planted, shall be
permitted if they are maintained in compliance with this chapter.
   2.   Wood perennials, purposefully planted, shall be permitted if they are
planted and maintained in compliance with this chapter, and Chapters 50 and 151
of this Code of Ordinances.
   3.   Prairie grass areas, wild flower planting areas, natural reserve and
preserve areas, urban wood lots, wild life refuge and conservation areas,
wetlands, and natural water way, all as recognized and identified by a
governmental agency or a respected private conservation organization.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                    55.12 Prohibited Animals
55.02 Animal Neglect                 55.13 Owner’s Duty
55.03 Livestock Neglect              55.14 Confinement
55.04 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs   55.15 At Large: Impoundment
55.05 Livestock                      55.16 Disposition of Animals
55.06 Trapping of Animals Prohibited 55.17 Impounding Costs
55.07 At Large Prohibited            55.18 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.08 Damage or Interference         55.19 Tampering With a Rabies Vaccination
                                     Tag
55.09 Annoyance or Disturbance       55.20 Tampering With an Electronic
                                     Handling Device
55.10 Vicious Dogs                   55.21 Disposal of Pet Waste
55.11 Rabies Vaccination
 
55.01   DEFINITIONS.  
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium,
including (but not limited to) print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag, or articulation.
   2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
   3.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain
dogs or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
   4.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the
control of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in
a veterinary hospital or kennel.
   5.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
      A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
      B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
      C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
      D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
   6.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
   7.   “Fair” means any of the following:
      A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
      C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
   8.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in
Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
   9.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an animal’s
health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or organ, or
the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
   10.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
   11.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring an
animal.
   12.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
   13.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
   14.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine,
veterinary medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital,
diagnostic or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific
establishment situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or
instruction concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the
cause, prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human
beings or animals.
   15.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169
of the Code of Iowa and who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
55.02   ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
      A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
      B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably
sufficient to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the
animal’s health or life is endangered.  Access to snow or ice does not satisfy
this requirement.
      C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
      D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate
protection from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age,
species, and physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a
state of good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered. The shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun
and have adequate bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and
dampness. A shelter may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
      E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent
adverse health effects or suffering.
      F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
         (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s
welfare as described in this section.
         (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal
to suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
   2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
         (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part
of the commercial establishment’s operation.
         (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as
described in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care
requirements provided in Section 162.10A[1] of the Code of Iowa, including any
applicable rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
applying to: (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section
162.10A[2a] or [2b] of the Code of Iowa; or (ii) a permittee operating pursuant
to Section 162.10A[2c] of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or
renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa, and performs functions
within the scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the
research facility.
55.03   LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
   It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place
to fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices, or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance, or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04   ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
   1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept
ownership and custody of the cat or dog.
   2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or that has been
issued or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and
Land Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
55.05   LIVESTOCK.
   It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by
written consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations.
55.06   TRAPPING OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to set a trap or snare of any kind which is capable of
taking, capturing, trapping, or killing any game or fur-bearing animal on
public property in the established limits of the City. Public property includes
all land owned by the City, the State, or any other subdivision of the State.
However, the Police Chief may authorize the use of a trap or snare when it is
determined to be in the best interest of public safety. Traps for the control
of mice, rats, and other vermin when used in an enclosed structure are not
prohibited.
55.07   AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.08   DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
   It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.09   ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
   It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles.
55.10   VICIOUS DOGS.
   It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious dog within the
City. A dog is deemed to be vicious when it has attacked or bitten any person
without provocation, or when propensity to attack or bite persons exists and is
known or ought reasonably to be known to the owner.
55.11   RABIES VACCINATION.
   Every owner of a dog must obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal. It is
unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession, six
months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies. Dogs kept
in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are not
subject to these vaccination requirements.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.12   PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   No person is permitted to keep within the City any of the following animals,
whether actually vicious or not: Lions, tigers, jaguars, leopards, cougars,
lynx, ocelots, bobcats, bears, wolves, coyotes, pit bull dogs (or cross breeds
where one parent is a wolf, coyote, or pit bull), crocodiles, alligators, and
all venomous or constricting snakes.
55.13   OWNER’S DUTY.
   It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten
or attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.14   CONFINEMENT.
   If a local board of health or the Police Chief receives information that an
animal has bitten a person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having
rabies, the board shall order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it
directs. If the owner fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the
animal shall be apprehended and impounded by the local board of health or the
Police Chief, and after 10 days the board of health or Police Chief may
humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to its owner, the owner
must pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if a police
service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the
performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.15   AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
   Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded, or at the discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served a
summons to appear before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
55.16   DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two days after impoundment, if the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal. Impounded animals may be recovered by
the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if an unvaccinated dog, by
having it immediately vaccinated. If the owner fails to redeem the animal
within seven days from the date that the notice is mailed, or if the owner
cannot be located within seven days, the animal shall be disposed of in
accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37, 351.41)
55.17   IMPOUNDING COSTS.
   Impounding costs are $15.00 for each unlicensed dog six months of age and
over, $10.00 for each unlicensed dog under six months of age, and $10.00 for
each licensed dog or other animal, plus $1.00 per day for food and care. Fees
incurred for the boarding and disposal of impounded animals which remain unpaid
for a period of 90 days shall constitute a lien upon the property of the owner
of the animal and shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for
collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37)
55.18   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
   1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
      A.   A prize for participating in a game.
      B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
      C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
      D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care, or disposition of the pet.
   2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
      B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting, or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.19   TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
   It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag
if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies
vaccination tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.20   TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
   It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
      B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached
to an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness,
or vest.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.21   DISPOSAL OF PET WASTE.
All pet owners are required to immediately and properly dispose of their pet’s
solid waste deposited on any property, public or private, not owned or
possessed by the owner. On any property owned or possessed by the owner, all
pet owners are required to dispose of their pet’s solid waste at a frequency of
at least weekly or more frequently if necessary to prevent a public health
nuisance.
(Section 55.21 - Ord. 843 - Jul. 22 Supp.)
CHAPTER 56
DOG LICENSE REQUIRED
 
56.01 Annual License Required 56.06 Immunization
56.02 License Fees            56.07 Duplicate Tags
56.03 Delinquency             56.08 Transfers of Licensed Dogs
56.04 License Tags            56.09 Kennel Dogs
56.05 License Records
 
56.01   ANNUAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
   1.   Every owner of a dog over the age of four months must procure a dog
license from the Clerk on or before the first day of January of each year.
   2.   Such license may be procured after January 1 and at any time for a dog
which has come into the possession or ownership of the applicant or which has
reached the age of three months after said date.
   3.   The owner of a dog for which a license is required must apply to the
Clerk on forms provided by the Clerk.
   4.   The form of the application must state the breed, sex, age, color,
markings, and name, if any, of the dog, the address of the owner, and shall be
signed by the owner. The application must also state the date of the most
recent rabies vaccination, the type of vaccine administered, and the date the
dog must be revaccinated.
   5.   All licenses will expire on January 1 of the year following the date of
issuance.
56.02   LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fee shall be as established by resolution of the Council.
56.03   DELINQUENCY.
   All license fees will become delinquent on the first day of July of the year
in which they are due and a delinquent penalty of $1.00 will be added to each
unpaid license on and after said date.
56.04   LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon receipt of the application and fee, the Clerk shall deliver or mail to
the owner a license which shall be in the form of a metal tag stamped with the
serial number of the license as shown on the record book of the Clerk, the year
in which it is issued, and the name of the City. The license tag must be
securely fastened by the owner to a collar or harness which must be worn at all
times by the dog for which issued. A license issued for one dog will not be
transferable to another dog. Upon the expiration of the license the owner must
remove said tag from the dog.
56.05   LICENSE RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall keep a book to be known as the record of licenses which
shall show:
   1.   The serial number and date of each application for a license.
   2.   The description of the dog as specified in the application, together
with the name of the owner of the dog.
   3.   The date when each license tag is issued and the serial number of each
tag, the date of the most recent rabies vaccination, the type of vaccine
administered, and the date the dog shall be revaccinated.
   4.   The amount of all fees paid.
   5.   Such other data as may be required by law.
56.06   IMMUNIZATION.
   Before a license is issued, the owner must furnish a veterinarian’s
certificate showing that the dog for which the license is sought has been
vaccinated against rabies, and that the vaccination does not expire within six
months from the effective date of the dog license. A tag showing evidence of
proper vaccination must at all times be attached to the collar of the dog.
56.07   DUPLICATE TAGS.
   Upon the filing of an affidavit that the license tag has been lost or
destroyed, the owner must obtain another tag on the payment of $1.00 and the
Clerk shall enter in the record of licenses the new number assigned.
56.08   TRANSFERS OF LICENSED DOGS.
   Upon transfer of a licensed dog into the City, the owner shall surrender the
original license tag to the Clerk. The Clerk shall preserve the surrendered tag
and, without a license fee, issue a new license tag.
56.09   KENNEL DOGS.
   Dogs kept in State or federally licensed kennels, which are kept or raised
solely for the bona fide purpose of sale, and which are kept under constant
restraint, are not subject to the provisions of this chapter.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officers’ Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic        60.08 Parades Regulated
 
60.01   TITLE.
   Chapters 60 through 70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as
the “Dyersville Traffic Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic
Code.”)
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law,
such definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
   1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway when 50 percent or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300
feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business.
   2.   “Park” or “Parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   3.   “Peace Officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   4.   “Residence District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban, or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
   5.   “School District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
   6.   “Stand” or “Standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   7.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
   8.   “Stop” or “Stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   9.   “Suburban District” means all other parts of the City not included in
the business, school, or residence districts.
   10.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   11.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or
alley.
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the Police Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the
Fire Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the
event of an emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 & 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the
City must file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICERS’ AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading, or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08   PARADES REGULATED.
   No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
   1.   Definition. “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or
vehicles organized for marching or moving on the streets in an organized
fashion or manner or any march or procession of persons or vehicles represented
or advertised to the public as a parade.
   2.   Approval Required. No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining
approval from the Council. The person organizing or sponsoring the parade must
provide information concerning the time and date for the parade and the streets
or general route therefor, and any approval given to such person includes all
participants in the parade, provided they have been invited to participate.
   3.   Parade Not A Street Obstruction. Any parade for which approval has been
given and the persons lawfully participating therein shall not be deemed an
obstruction of the streets, notwithstanding the provisions of any other
ordinance to the contrary.
   4.   Control by Peace Officers and Firefighters. Persons participating in
any parade shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in
the performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Traffic Control Devices 61.04 Crosswalks
61.02 Installation            61.05 Traffic Lanes
61.03 Compliance              61.06 Standards
 
61.01   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained appropriate traffic
control devices to indicate parking spaces and zones, no parking zones, limited
parking zones, reserved parking zones, emergency snow routes, loading zones,
safety zones, school zones, hospital zones, quiet zones, traffic zones other
than the above, truck routes, school stops, stop intersections, yield right-of-
way intersections, one-way streets, streets to be laned for traffic, play
streets, intersections at which traffic shall be controlled by traffic signals;
intersections at which left turns, right turns, and U-turns shall be
prohibited; and intersections at which markers, buttons, or other indications
shall be placed to indicate the course to be traveled by vehicles traversing or
turning at such intersections.
61.02   INSTALLATION.
   The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices to carry out the provisions of the Traffic Code of the City under State
law or to regulate, guide, or warn traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.254 & 321.255)
61.03   COMPLIANCE.
   No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, unless at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under
Section 321.231 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
61.04   CROSSWALKS.
   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to designate and maintain crosswalks
by appropriate traffic control devices at intersections where, due to traffic
conditions, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street or
roadway, and at such other places as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.05   TRAFFIC LANES.
   Where traffic lanes have been marked on street pavements at such places as
traffic conditions require, it is unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane
except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful
turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.06   STANDARDS.
   Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Engine Brakes and Compression Brakes
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle      62.08 Emergency Road Closure and Barricades
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of
a peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
   1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
   2.   Section 321.20B – Proof of security against liability-driving without
liability coverage.
   3.   Section 321.32 – Registration card carried and exhibited-exception.
   4.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
   5.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching-imitations prohibited.
   6.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
   7.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
   8.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
   9.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
   10.   Section 321.91 – Penalty for abandonment. “Limitation on liability-
penalty for abandonment.”
   11.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
   12.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
   13.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
   14.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles-model year plates permitted.
   15.   Section 321.174 – “Operators licensed-operation of commercial
vehicles.”
   16.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicles with expired license.
   17.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits.
   18.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged
fourteen through seventeen.
   19.   Section 321.193 – ”Restrictions on licenses-penalty”.
   20.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ licenses.
   21.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order-
penalties.
   22.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card-penalty.
   23.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
   24.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
   25.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified-penalties.
   26.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
   27.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
   28.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
   29.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
   30.   Section 321.223 –Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle rental.
   31.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
   32.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices-penalty.
   33.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles-highway use.
   34.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
   35.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on city streets.
   36.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic-control signal.
   37.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals, or markings.
   38.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals;
unlawful possession-traffic signal preemption devices.
   39.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited-vehicle
damage only-removal of vehicles.
   40.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid-leaving scene of personal injury
accident.
   41.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
   42.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
   43.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
   44.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   45.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while
driving-text-messaging.
   46.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
   47.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
   48.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
   49.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
   50.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles-drivers.
   51.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles-passengers.
   52.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle-reduced speed.
   53.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
   54.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways-exceptions.
   55.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
   56.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
   57.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
   58.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
   59.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
   60.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
   61.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
   62.   Section 321.308 – Motor trucks and towed vehicles-distance
requirements.
   63.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
   64.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
   65.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
   66.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
   67.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
   68.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
   69.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
   70.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
   71.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
   72.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
   73.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
   74.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
   75.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
   76.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
   77.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
   78.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
   79.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
   80.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver-pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
   81.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
   82.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
   83.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
   84.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
   85.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   86.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings-posting warning.
   87.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
   88.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
   89.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat-penalty.
   90.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
   91.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
   92.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
   93.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
   94.   Section 321.364 –Preventing contamination of food by hazardous
material.
   95.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
   96.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
   97.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
   98.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
   99.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
   100.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
   101.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils-stopping requirements-penalties.
   102.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
   103.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
   104.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls-minimum speed.
   105.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions-slow vehicles identified.
   106.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
   107.   Section 321.385 – Headlamps on motor vehicles.
   108.   Section 321.386 – Headlamps on motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   109.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
   110.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
   111.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
   112.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
   113.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
   114.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
   115.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
   116.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
   117.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
   118.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
   119.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
   120.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
   121.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
   122.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
   123.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
   124.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
   125.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
   126.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
   127.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
   128.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
   129.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
   130.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
   131.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front-rear lights.
   132.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
   133.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
   134.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
   135.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
   136.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, and bells prohibited.
   137.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
   138.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
   139.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
   140.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
   141.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
   142.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
   143.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
   144.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
   145.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
   146.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses-use required.
   147.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
   148.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
   149.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
   150.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while
operating a commercial motor vehicle.
   151.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
   152.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
   153.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
   154.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
   155.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
   156.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
   157.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
   158.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
   159.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
   160.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight-exceptions-penalties.
   161.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
   162.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity-reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person is permitted to drive a vehicle upon any such
street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose
residences are within such closed area, and then any said driver must exercise
the greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area
except at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
   It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to
obstruct the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear
view of traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such
obstruction is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be
abated in the manner provided by Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
62.07   ENGINE BRAKES AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   1.   It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate, or
cause to be used or operated within the City any engine brake, compression
brake, or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or
deceleration of any vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual, or
explosive noise from such vehicle.
   2.   City-owned fire apparatus or apparatus responding in mutual for the
City is exempt from this section.
   3.   Violation of this section will be considered a non-moving violation.
   4.   The scheduled fine for a violation of this section will be $50.00, plus
court costs.
62.08   EMERGENCY ROAD CLOSURE AND BARRICADES.
As required for emergency circumstances or for routine street maintenance by
Public Works officials or sub-contractor, roads may be ruled closed by the
Police Chief and the following procedure.
   1.   The closure shall be indicated by the use of “road closed” marking,
barricades, traffic cones, caution tape, or similar road closure devices.
   2.   It is unlawful for any non-authorized persons to remove such barricades
to allow unauthorized access to the closed road or area.
   3.   It is unlawful for any non-authorized vehicle to travel a closed road.
   4.   Any violation of the Road Closed provisions is a simple misdemeanor or
a municipal infraction in accordance with this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General      63.03 Controlled Access Facilities
63.02 Speed Limits 63.04 Minimum Speed
 
63.01   GENERAL.
   Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street must drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface, and width of the street, and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   SPEED LIMITS.
   The following are the lawful speed limits within the City:
   1.   Central Business District   20 MPH
   2.   Outlying Business District   25 MPH
   3.   Residential District   25 MPH
   4.   Manufacturing District   25 MPH
   5.   Suburban District   45 MPH
   6.   Alleys   15 MPH
   7.   City Parks   20 MPH
   8.   Mobile Home Parks   20 MPH 5
   9.   School Zone   20 MPH 6
   10.   Chicago Great Western Beltline Rd.
   except for the 200 and 300 blocks NE   35 MPH
   11.   The 200 and 300 blocks NE of the Chicago Great Western Beltline
Rd   25 MPH
 
Notes
  Speed limits within mobile home parks are enforceable only when the owner of
5 the park has filed a written request for enforcement with the City pursuant
  to Section 321.251 of the Code of Iowa.
  School Zones:   The 500, 600 and 700 blocks of Third Avenue SE;
6       The 100 and 200 blocks of Third Avenue SW,
        The 100 and 200 blocks of Third Street SW, and
        The 200 and 300 blocks of First Avenue W.
63.03   CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
   The speed limits for Iowa Highway controlled access facilities are:
   1.   Iowa Highway #20: 65 MPH
   2.   Iowa Highway #136:
   45 MPH from the south corporate limit to Iowa Highway #20 Overpass
   35 MPH from the Iowa Highway #20 Overpass to Eighth Ave. SE
   25 MPH from Eighth Ave. SE to Third Ave. NE
   40 MPH from Third Ave. NE to Highway Station 20+00
   55 MPH from Highway Station 20+00 to the north corporate limit
63.04   MINIMUM SPEED.
A person must not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Left Turn for Parking
64.02 U-Turns
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection must do so as
follows:
   1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn must be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   2.   Approach for a left turn must be made in that portion of the right half
of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn must be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
must be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street must be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
The Council may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent
to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions require,
that a different course from that specified above be traveled by vehicles
turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed, no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
64.02   U-TURNS.
   It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the Business District and at any
intersection where a sign prohibiting U-turns is posted in accordance with
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
64.03   LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
   No person shall make a left-hand turn, crossing the centerline of the
street, for the purpose of parking on said street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Stop or Yield                 65.04 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.02 School Stops                  65.05 Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks
65.03 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
 
65.01   STOP OR YIELD.
   Every driver of a vehicle must stop or yield as directed by traffic control
devices posted in accordance with
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code. Before proceeding, the driver must yield the
right of way to any vehicle on the intersecting roadway which has entered the
intersection or which is approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate
hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.322)
65.02   SCHOOL STOPS.
   At any school crossing zone, every driver of a vehicle approaching said zone
must bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the approach side
of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and thereafter
proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have passed
through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
65.03   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building must stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter must proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do so
without danger to pedestrian traffic and must yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.04   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
   Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.05   YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.
   Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver
of a vehicle must yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be,
to yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or
within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.05 Truck Route
66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
   If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic conditions that certain streets
will be seriously damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an
amount specified by the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so
designated by such signs erected in accordance with Chapter 61 of this Traffic
Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 & 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
   The Police Chief may, upon application and good cause being shown therefor,
issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move
a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 321E.2)
66.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the streets or parts of streets for which said signs are
erected in accordance with Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 475)
66.04   LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
   Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than
the maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Council may cause to be posted and maintained signs, in accordance
with Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code, on said bridge and at suitable distances
ahead of the entrances thereof to warn drivers of such maximum load limits, and
no person shall drive a vehicle weighing, loaded or unloaded, upon said bridge
in excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
66.05   TRUCK ROUTE.
   When truck routes have been designated in accordance with Chapter 61, any
motor vehicle exceeding established weight limits must comply with the
following:
   1.   Use of Established Routes. Every such motor vehicle having no fixed
terminal within the City or making no scheduled or definite stops within the
City for the purpose of loading or unloading must travel over or upon those
streets within the City designated as truck routes and none other.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   2.   Deliveries Off Truck Route. Any such motor vehicle, when loaded or
empty, having a fixed terminal, making a scheduled or definite stop within the
City for the purpose of loading or unloading must proceed over or upon the
designated routes to the nearest point of its scheduled or definite stop and
must proceed thereto, load or unload and return, by the most direct route to
its point of departure from said designated route.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   3.   Employer’s Responsibility. The owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle shall not require or knowingly
permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to
this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   4.   Authorized Official Truck Routes. The established Authorized Official
Truck Routes are defined:
      A.   Beltline Road from 1st Avenue West to HWY 136
      B.   1st Avenue West to west City limits
      C.   X49 from south City limits to north City limits
      D.   Vine Road
      E.   HWY 136 from south City limits to north City limits
      F.   2nd Avenue East from HWY 136 to east City limits
      G.   3rd Avenue NE from HWY 136 to east City limits
      H.   5th Street NW from Beltline Rd to 6th Avenue NW
      I.   2nd Street NE from Beltline Rd to 6th Ave NE
      J.   6th Avenue NE from 2nd Street NE to 7th Street NW
      K.   HWY 20 from west City limits to east City limits
      L.   Field of Dreams Way from 7th Street SW to west end
      M.   15th Avenue SE from HWY 136 to east end
      N.   16th Avenue SE from HWY 136 to 6th Street SE
      O.   6th Street SE from 16th Avenue SE to 13th Avenue SE
      P.   5th Street SE from 16th Avenue SE to south termination
      Q.   8th Street NW from Beltline to 6th Avenue NW.
   5.   Exemptions. The following are exempt from the established Official
Authorized Truck Routes:
      A.   Government-owned vehicles, such as (but not limited to) street
maintenance equipment and snow plows.
      B.   Official school vehicles used by and for the schools.
      C.   Authorized emergency vehicles.
      D.   Authorized solid waste vehicles.
 
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
   Pedestrians must at all times, when walking on or along a street, walk on
the left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
   No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection must yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
69.01 Parking Limited or Controlled 69.08 Persons with Disabilities Parking
69.02 Park Adjacent to Curb         69.09 Truck Parking Limited
69.03 Parking on One-Way Streets    69.10 Snow Emergency
69.04 Angle Parking                 69.11 Snow Routes
69.05 Manner of Angle Parking       69.12 Parking in R-1 and R-2 Residential
                                    Zones
69.06 Parking for Certain Purposes  69.13 Regulating Parking in City-Owned
Illegal                             Parking Lots
69.07 Parking Prohibited
 
69.01   PARKING LIMITED OR CONTROLLED.
   Parking of vehicles shall be controlled or limited where so indicated by
designated traffic control devices in accordance with Chapter 61 of this
Traffic Code. No person shall stop, park, or stand a vehicle in violation of
any such posted parking regulations unless in compliance with the directions of
a peace officer.
69.02   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking
and vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.04   ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
   1.   Third Street SW – east side of the 100 Block.
   2.   First Street SW – west side of the 100 Block.
   3.   First Avenue W – south side of the 100 and 200 Blocks.
   4.   First Avenue E – south and north sides of the 100 Block through the 400
Block.
   5.   Second Street SE – both sides of the 100 Block.
   6.   Third Street SE – east side of the 100 Block.
   7.   Second Street NE – both sides of the 100 Block.
   8.   Third Street NE – east side of the 100 Block.
   9.   Fourth Street NE – west side of the 100 Block.
   10.   Second Avenue NE – north side of the 200 Block.
   11.   Second Avenue NE – south side of the 300 Block.
69.05   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
   Upon those streets or portions of streets which have been signed or marked
for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an
angle to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as
indicated by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load
thereon, when said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall
extend into the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right
angles to the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.06   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 48 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of Section 69.01 of this chapter,
or for any of the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing, or for commercial washing of
such vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
   3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
   4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a
duly established market place or when so authorized or licensed under the Code
of Ordinances.
69.07   PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
   2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox which is so
placed and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
   5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
   6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
   7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
   8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
   9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
   10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
   11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
   12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
   13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
   14.   Churches, Nursing Homes and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked, or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
   15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley which is 18 feet wide
or less; provided said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
   17.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line. That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
   18.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any
part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.08   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
   The following regulations apply to the establishment and use of persons with
disabilities parking spaces:
   1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces must be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
   2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
      A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit;
      B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa; or
      C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section
321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
      A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.
      B.   A person must not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone which is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.09   TRUCK PARKING LIMITED.
   No person shall park a commercial motor vehicle in violation of the
following regulations.
   1.   Residential and Business Districts. Excepting only when such vehicles
are actually engaged in the delivery or receiving of merchandise or cargo, no
person shall park or leave unattended any such vehicle on any street in any
district zoned a residential or business district in the City. When actually
receiving or delivering merchandise or cargo such vehicle must be stopped or
parked in a manner which will not interfere with other traffic.
   2.   Noise. No such vehicle shall be left standing or parked upon any
street, alley, public or private parking lot, or drive of any service station
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. with the engine, auxiliary
engine, air compressor, refrigerating equipment, or other device in operation
giving off audible sounds excepting only the drive of a service station when
actually being serviced, and then in no event for more than 30 minutes.
   3.   Livestock. No such vehicle containing livestock shall be parked on any
street, alley, or highway for a period of time of more than 30 minutes.
69.10   SNOW EMERGENCY.
   On the basis of falling snow or the forecast of snow, the Mayor or the
Police Chief may cause a declaration of a snow emergency to be publicly
announced by broadcast from a radio or television station with a normal
operation range covering the City. During the snow emergency, no person shall
park or leave unattended any vehicle upon any public street, alley, or City-
owned parking lot through the duration of the snow storm and the 48-hour period
after cessation of such storm, except that the emergency snow parking
regulations shall be automatically terminated for any public street, alley, or
parking lot which has become substantially cleared of snow from curb to curb
for the entire length of the block. Enforcement of this section shall begin no
sooner than two hours after a declaration of a snow emergency.
69.11   SNOW ROUTES.
   The Council may designate certain streets in the City as snow routes, and
there must be no parking of any vehicle upon said snow routes from November 1
to April 15, between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., when a forecast of
two or more inches of snow has been made for the area by a newspaper circulated
in the City, or by a radio or television station with a normal operating range
covering the City, or when it becomes necessary for the City to cause snow to
be plowed or removed from its public places due to the accumulation of two or
more inches of snow, unless the snow has been cleared from curb to curb for the
entire length of the block after cessation of the snow storm. The Police Chief
shall, in November of each year, cause a notice generally outlining the snow
route and snow emergency provisions to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City.
69.12   PARKING IN R-1 OR R-2 RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   No owner or tenant of a dwelling unit in an R-1 or R-2 Residential zone
shall have more than three vehicles registered to such owner or tenant or to
persons sharing the dwelling unit with said owner or tenant parked on the
streets of such residential zone at any one time. A combination of a vehicle
and licensed trailer or equipment is considered as two vehicles for purposes of
this section.
69.13   REGULATING PARKING IN CITY-OWNED PARKING LOTS.
   1.   Definitions. For the purposes of this ordinance, the following
definitions shall apply:
      A.   Trailer means any vehicle without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
      B.   Boat means any vessel designed for navigation on water.
      C.   Recreational vehicle means a motor vehicle or trailer which includes
living quarters designed for accommodation.
      D.   Camper means a motor vehicle or trailer equipped with living
quarters.
      E.   Inoperable vehicle means any vehicle that is not in a condition to
be legally operated on public roads.
      F.   Semi means a truck tractor.
      G.   Semi-trailer means a trailer designed for use with a semi.
   2.   Prohibited Parking. No person shall stand or park any trailer, boat,
recreational vehicle, camper, inoperable vehicle, semi, or semi-trailer in any
City-owned parking lot, except as provided in Subsection 3 of this ordinance.
   3.   Exceptions. The following exceptions shall apply to the prohibition in
Subsection 2:
      A.   The Police Chief and City Administrator may grant temporary parking
for trailers, boats, recreational vehicles, campers, inoperable vehicles,
semis, and semi-trailers in designated areas, provided that such parking does
not exceed a period of thirty (30) calendar days.
      B.   Trailers, boats, recreational vehicles, campers, inoperable
vehicles, semis, and semi-trailers may be parked in City-owned parking lots for
the purpose of loading or unloading goods or materials, provided that such
parking does not exceed a period of two (2) hours in twenty-four (24) hours.
   4.   Unattended Vehicles.
      A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit an unattended vehicle
to stand or park in or about within a City-owned parking lot for twenty-four
(24) hours or more without such vehicle being moved.
      B.   The Police Chief or their designee, upon initiative or upon
complaint, may take into custody any vehicle standing or parking in violation
of this ordinance.
      C.   Upon evidence that the vehicle has been parked within a City-owned
parking lot for more than twenty-four (24) hours without being moved, the
Police Chief or their designee shall issue a fine. If such vehicle has not been
moved within twenty-four (24) hours from the time of the fine, or if there is
evidence that the vehicle has been parking for more than forty-eight (48) hours
before receiving the fine, the Police Chief or their designee may cause removal
of the vehicle. When conditions permit, the Police Chief or their designee
shall make a reasonable effort to contact the last registered owner of the
vehicle before summarily removing the vehicle.
(Section 69.13 – Ord. 866 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
   Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
   1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
   2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate
a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner
of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
   For violations of the Traffic Code which are designated by Section 805.8A of
the Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of
those violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
70.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
   Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
Police Department. The fine for each violation charged under a simple notice of
a fine shall be in accordance with the following.
   1.   Yellow curb   $   10.00
   2.   Fire hydrant   $   10.00
   3.   Facing wrong direction   $   5.00
   4.   18 inches from curb   $   5.00
   5.   Blocking sidewalk or driveway   $   5.00
   6.   Truck parking   $   10.00
   7.   Restricted area   $   10.00
   8.   48-hour parking    $   5.00
   9.   Blocking mailbox   $   5.00
   10.   Snow emergency   $   25.00
   11.   City-Owned Parking Lot. Any person who violates the provisions of this
ordinance shall be subject to a fine of $50.00 for each violation.
(Subsection 11 – Ord. 866 – Mar. 25 Supp.)
If such fine is not paid within 30 days, it shall be increased by $5.00. The
fine for improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit is $100.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b] and 321L.4[2])
70.04   PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
   When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code,
and the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein
provided shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred, shall be raised by proof that:
   1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information
was parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
   2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot, or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
   4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can be
located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter will be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                  75.05 Operation of All-Terrain Vehicles
75.02 Definitions              75.06 Negligence
75.03 General Regulations      75.07 Accident Reports
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles
 
75.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat
or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks, that
has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled by
the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road
utility vehicle” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
      A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 1” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
      B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 2” includes vehicles, other than
type 1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of
65 inches or less.
      C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 3” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or
both.
An operator of an off-road utility vehicle is also subject to the provisions of
this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
   4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000
pounds, that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a
width of 48 inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and
is designed for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-
terrain vehicle that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type
tracks, or treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person is permitted to operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle, or off-road
utility vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of
Iowa or a snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter
321G of the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural
Resource Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their
registration, equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G & Ch. 321I)
75.04   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
   The operators of snowmobiles must comply with the following restrictions as
to where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets that have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])
   2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only
under the following circumstances:
      A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
      B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided all of the following occur:
         (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
         (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
         (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
   4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
   5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any
park, playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
   6.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
75.05   OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   The operators of ATVs must comply with the following restrictions as to
where ATVs may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles may be operated on streets
only in accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa or on such streets
as may be designated by resolution of the Council for the operation of
registered ATVs or registered off-road utility vehicles. In designating such
streets, the Council may authorize ATVs and off-road utility vehicles to stop
at service stations or convenience stores along a designated street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 & 3])
   2.   Trails. ATVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except where
designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way. An ATV may be driven directly across a railroad right-
of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other provisions
of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the established crossing
after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])
   4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs shall not be operated in any park,
playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City.
   5.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
   6.   Direct Crossing. An all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle may
make a direct crossing of a highway provided all of the following occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
      A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing.
      B.   The all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle is brought to a
complete stop before crossing the shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
      C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
      D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
      E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway designated
as an all-terrain vehicle trail by any State agency, the County, or the City to
a street, roadway, or highway designated as an all-terrain vehicle trail by any
State agency, the County, or the City.
75.06   NEGLIGENCE.
   The owner and operator of an ATV or snowmobile are liable for any injury or
damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV or snowmobile. The
owner of an ATV or snowmobile will be liable for any such injury or damage only
if the owner was the operator of the ATV or snowmobile at the time the injury
or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent to operate the
ATV or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 & 321I.19)
75.07   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   Whenever an ATV or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in injury
or death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more, either
the operator or someone acting for the operator must immediately notify a law
enforcement officer and must file an accident report, in accordance with State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 & 321I.11)
CHAPTER 75A
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
 
75A.01 Purpose             75A.06 Operation
75A.02 Definitions         75A.07 Locations
75A.03 General Regulations 75A.08 Violation and Penalty
75A.04 Authorized Uses     75A.09 Inspection, Warning, Termination of Uses
75A.05 Equipment           75A.10 Responsibility of Owner
 
75A.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of Chapter 75A is to regulate and authorize the operation of
all-terrain vehicles (ATV) and off-road utility vehicles (ORUV) on certain
streets within the City of Dyersville as authorized and pursuant to Section
321.234A and Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa.  †
 
Notes
  EDITOR’S NOTE:  Chapter 75A was adopted on June 7, 2021, by Ordinance No. 836
  and was effective following its final passage, approval, and publication.
  Ordinance No. 836 provided, in Section 3 for a sunset on the ordinance as
follows: “This ordinance shall remain in effect only until 11:59 p.m. on June
  30, 2022, and as of that date and time this ordinance is repealed unless an
  extension or reauthorization of this ordinance is approved.” Ordinance No. 845
  was adopted on June 20, 2022, and was effective July 1, 2022, at 12:01 a.m.
  thereby reauthorizing Chapter 75A.
75A.02   DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless context otherwise requires:
   1.   "All-terrain vehicle" or “ATV” means a motorized flotation-tire vehicle
with not less than three (3) and not more than (6) non-highway, low pressure
tires, that is limited in engine displacement to less than one thousand cubic
centimeters and in total dry weight to less than one thousand two hundred
pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator
and handlebars for steering control. For the purpose of this ordinance, all-
terrain vehicle does not include off-road motorcycle as defined by Iowa Code
§321I.1(16) or Section 75.02(2), Dyersville Code of Ordinance.
   2.   “Off-road utility vehicle” (ORUV) means a motorized vehicle with not
less than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks
that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled
by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road
utility vehicle” includes the following vehicles:
      A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” means an off-road utility
vehicle or ATV with a total dry weight of one thousand two hundred pounds or
less and a width of fifty inches or less;
      B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” means an off-road utility
vehicle or ATV, other than a Type 1 off-road utility vehicle, with a total dry
weight of two thousand pounds or less, and a width of sixty-five inches or
less; or
      C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” means an off-road utility
vehicle or ATV with a total dry weight of more than two thousand pounds or a
width of more than sixty-five inches, or both.
75A.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person shall operate an ATV or ORUV within the City limits of the City in
violation of the provisions of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or rules
enacted by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources governing the registration,
numbering, equipping or manner of operation; or the provisions of Section
75A.04. 75A.06, 75A.07, 75A.08, and 75A.09 of this Code.
75A.04   AUTHORIZED USES.
   An ATV or ORUV may be operated on City streets and alleys in compliance with
all requirements set out herein.
75A.05   EQUIPMENT.
   Any ATV or ORUV operated within the City shall be equipped as required by
Sections 321I.12 and 321I.13 of the Code of Iowa, including but not limited to:
muffler, headlight, tail light, brakes, and brake lights. For ATVs, a single
rearview mirror must be on either side of the vehicle. For ORUVs, there must be
a single center review mirror or a side mirror. ATVs and ORUVs shall be
equipped with an adequate exhaust system. ATVs and ORUVs shall also be equipped
with a bicycle safety flag of fluorescent orange color on a staff holder to put
such flag at least five feet (5’) above the surface of the street and extend a
minimum 2 feet above the highest point of the ATV and ORUV.
75A.06   OPERATION.
   1.   Minimum Age. To operate an ATV or ORUV on any City street, alley, or
right of way a person shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age and shall
have a valid driver’s license.
   2.   Traffic Code. Any person operating an ATV or ORUV shall strictly adhere
to all traffic signs and signals and all other traffic rules and regulations
and shall obey the orders and direction of any law enforcement officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
   3.   Speed. No ATV or ORUV shall be operated at a speed in excess of 35
miles per hour or the posted speed limits, whichever is less.
   4.   Manner. No ATV or ORUV shall be operated in a careless, reckless, or
negligent manner so as to endanger the person or property of another or to
cause injury or damage therein. No ATV or ORUV shall be operated so as to cause
unnecessary skidding or sliding or cause any wheel or wheels to unnecessarily
lose contract with the ground. No ATV or ORUV shall be operated while under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics or habit-forming drugs. In
addition, no ATV or ORUV operator or passenger shall operate or occupy an ATV
or ORUV with an open container of an alcoholic beverage.
   5.   Street Crossings. An ATV or ORUV may make a direct crossing of a
divided highway as long as:
      A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      B.   The ATV or ORUV is brought to a complete stop before crossing;
      C.   The operator of the ATV or ORUV yields to the right-of-way to all
oncoming traffic which constitutes an immediate hazard;
      D.   The crossing is made only at an intersection of such highway with
another public street or highway; and
      E.   The crossing is not made from or to a street, roadway, or highway
prohibited under Section 75A.07.
   6.   Railroad Right-of-Way. No ATV or ORUV shall be operated upon an
operating railroad right-of-way. An ATV or ORUV may only be driven directly
across a railroad right-of-way at an established crossing and, notwithstanding
any other provision of law, may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
   7.   Lights. No ATV or ORUV shall be operated without a lighted headlight
and taillight from sunset to sunrise and at such other times when conditions
provide insufficient lighting to render clearly discernible persons and
vehicles at a distance of five hundred feet ahead.
   8.   Unattended Vehicles and Parking. No person shall leave an ATV or ORUV
unattended on public property while the motor is running, or the keys are in
the ignition switch. All ATV and ORUV owners and/or operators shall comply with
all parking regulations in the City.
   9.   Number of Occupants. No ATV or ORUV shall be operated with more persons
on the vehicle that it was designed to carry. All seating must be factory
installed.
   10.   Hours of Operation. ATV or ORUV may be operated on City streets in
accordance with applicable federal and State laws.
   11.   Registration Requirements. No person shall operate, maintain, or give
permission for the operation of an ATV or ORUV unless the ATV or ORUV is
registered in accordance with applicable federal and State laws. The operator
of an ATV or ORUV must carry the registration certificate either in the ATV or
ORUV or on the person of the operator when the ATV or ORUV is in use.
   12.   Proof of Insurance. No ATV or ORUV shall be operated under this
section unless financial liability coverage, as defined in Iowa Code Section
321.1(24B), is in effect for the ATV or ORUV and unless the operator has in the
ATV or ORUV the proof of financial liability coverage.
   13.   Accidents. Whenever an ATV or ORUV driven under this chapter is
involved in an accident resulting in injury or death to any person or to
property damage amounting to $1,500 or more, the operator of the vehicle or a
person acting for the operator shall immediately notify the Dyersville Police
Department.
   14.   Off-Road Motorcycles. The operation of off-road motorcycles as defined
under Iowa Code §321I.1(16) or Section 75.02(2), Dyersville Code of Ordinance,
is prohibited.
   15.   Golf Carts. The operation of golf carts as defined under Iowa Code §
321.247 is prohibited.
75A.07   LOCATIONS.
   1.   Prohibited City Streets. No ATV or ORUV shall be operated upon the
following City streets that are prohibited under State law.
   2.   Prohibited Trails. ATVs and ORUVs shall not be operated on any
recreational, bike, or walking trail.
   3.   Sidewalks. ATVs or ORUVs shall not be operated upon sidewalks.
   4.   Parking. No ATV or ORUV shall be operated upon that portion of a street
right-of-way between the curb or edge of street paving and the sidewalk.
   5.   City Parks and Other Land Owned By the City. No ATV or ORUV shall be
operated in City parks or upon other City owned land unless for a special event
authorized by the Police Chief or City Administrator.
75A.08   VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   1.   Any person guilty of violating the provisions herein shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of one-hundred dollars ($100.00).
   2.   Any person guilty of violating this ordinance two times or more shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine up to but not in
excess of six hundred and twenty-five dollars ($625.00).
   3.    Persons violating this ordinance may also pe prosecuted and subject to
the penalties as set out in Chapter 321, 321I, and 321J, Code of Iowa.
75A.09   INSPECTIONS-WARNING-TERMINATION OF USE.
   A peace officer may stop and inspect any ATV or ORUV operated or parked
within City limits to determine if the vehicle is registered, numbered, or
equipped as required by the Code of Iowa, the Iowa Administrative Code, and/or
this chapter. The officer shall not inspect an area that is not essential to
determine compliance with the requirements. If the officer determines that the
vehicle is not in compliance, the officer may issue a warning memorandum to the
operator and forward a copy to the DNR. The warning memorandum shall indicate
the items found which are not in compliance and shall direct the owner or
operator of the vehicle to correct the items and return a copy of the warning
memorandum with the proof of compliance to the DMS within 14 days. If the proof
of compliance is not provided within 14 days, the owner and/or operator will be
in violation of Iowa Code Chapter 321I and this chapter. A person who receives
a warning memorandum for an ATV or ORUV must stop using the vehicle as soon as
possible and shall not operate it until the ATV or ORUV is in compliance.
75A.10   RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   1.   The owner of an ATV or ORUV shall not permit the vehicle to be used or
operated in violation of this chapter.
   2.   The owner of an ATV or ORUV operated in violation of this chapter shall
be subject to a civil penalty as a municipal infraction in an amount not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   3.   The owner of an ATV or ORUV acquired on or after January 1, 2000, other
than an exempt vehicle, must apply to the County Recorder of the county in
which the owner resides, or the ATV or ORUV is registered, for a certificate of
title for the vehicle.
(Ch. 75A – Ord. 845 – Jul. 22 Supp.)
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.08 Carrying Articles
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.09 Riding on Sidewalks
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.10 Towing
76.04 Two Abreast Limit               76.11 Improper Riding
76.05 Bicycle Paths                   76.12 Parking
76.06 Speed                           76.13 Equipment Requirements
76.07 Emerging from Alley or Driveway 76.14 Special Penalty
 
76.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or
upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway is granted all of the rights
and is subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by
the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as
to those provisions that by their nature can have no application. Whenever such
person dismounts from a bicycle, the person is subject to all regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03   DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
A person propelling a bicycle must not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04   TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway must not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway must be kept to the right and must
be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.05   BICYCLE PATHS.
   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a roadway,
bicycle riders must use such path and must not use the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06   SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07   EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building
must, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway must yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08   CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
that prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09   RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle:
   1.   On the sidewalk in front of any business located on 1st Avenue East and
1st Avenue West from 4th Street SE to 3rd Street SW.
   2.   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to designate and post signs in
such areas where bicycles are prohibited on sidewalks. No person shall ride a
bicycle in such area.
76.10   TOWING.
   It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any
other vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured
for such use.
76.11   IMPROPER RIDING.
   No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.12   PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb, or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, or
against a building, or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13   EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person riding a bicycle is responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
   1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime must be equipped
with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a distance of at
least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except that a red reflector on
the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet
to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a
motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
   2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle must be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.14   SPECIAL PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second
offense, and 30 days for a third offense.
CHAPTER 77
BICYCLE REGISTRATION
 
77.01 Registration Required 77.04 Destroyed or Stolen Tag
77.02 Records               77.05 Altering or Counterfeiting Tag Unlawful
77.03 Transferability
 
77.01   REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every person who owns and/or operates a bicycle within the limits of the
City must cause the ownership thereof to be registered at the office of the
Police Chief of the City. Upon such registration, the Police Chief shall issue
to such person a registration tag, plate, or other means of identification. The
registration plate must at all times be securely fastened to the bicycle for
which it is issued so that the plate is readable at a distance of at least 75
feet from the rear of the bicycle. There must be paid to the Police Chief a fee
for the tag or plate in the amount of 50 cents. The registration plates or tags
will expire on December 30 of every other year.
77.02   RECORDS.
   The Police Chief shall keep a record of the number of each registration, the
date issued, the name of the person who registered and the number issued to the
person.
77.03   TRANSFERABILITY.
   In the event a registered bicycle is sold or transferred, the registration
tag, plate, or other means of identification will pass to the new owner or
transferee and the sale or the transfer of the bicycle must be reported to the
Police Chief by the new owner or transferee within five days after sale or
transfer, together with the name of the new owner or transferee of the bicycle.
77.04   DESTROYED OR STOLEN TAG.
   In the event that the registration tag, plate or other means of
identification is lost, destroyed, or stolen, the owner must report the same to
the Police Chief immediately and the Police Chief shall then issue a new
registration tag at the cost of 25 cents to such owner.
77.05   ALTERING OR COUNTERFEITING TAG UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to alter or counterfeit any registration tag,
plate, or other means of identification issued in conformity with this chapter.
CHAPTER 78
SKATEBOARDS, SCOOTERS AND ROLLER SKATES
 
78.01 Definitions                     78.06 Clinging to Vehicles
78.02 Scope of Regulation             78.07 Prohibited Areas
78.03 Traffic Code Applies            78.08 Violation Penalty
78.04 Traffic Control Devices         78.09 Special Penalty
78.05 Emerging from Alley or Driveway
 
78.01   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   “Negligent manner” means the operation of skateboards, coaster
scooters, and roller skates on any roadway, sidewalk, or publicly owned parking
lot, in such a manner as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property. Examples of operating in a negligent manner include but are not
limited to, failure to obey all traffic control devices, failure to yield
right-of-way to pedestrians and/or vehicular traffic.
   2.   “Operator” means a person who utilizes, controls, rides, or in any
manner propels a skateboard, scooter, or roller skates.
   3.   “Prohibited Downtown District” means the interior area west from 4th
Street SE and 4th Street NE to 2nd Street SW, south from 2nd Avenue NE and
north from 2nd Avenue SE and 2nd Avenue SW.
   Additionally, an area bordered west from 2nd Street SW and east from 3rd
Street SW, north from 3rd Avenue SW to 1st Avenue W. The exception to this
prohibited area is the area immediately in front of residential houses.
   4.   “Roller skates” means a pair of shoes, mounted on wheels, and most
often propelled by the user in an upright, standing position, or kneeling. For
the purposes of this section roller blades and in-line skates are considered to
be roller skates.
   5.   “Scooter” means a device having two wheels and a low footboard, which
is steered by a handlebar, and is propelled by motor or by pushing one foot
against the ground while resting the other on the footboard. This device is
most often propelled by the user in an upright position.
   6.   “Skateboard” means a footboard mounted on wheels and is usually
propelled by the user who sometimes stands, sits, kneels, or lies upon the
device while it is in motion.
78.02   SCOPE OF REGULATION.  
These regulations apply whenever skateboards and roller skates are operated
upon any public street, public property or upon any public path set aside for
the exclusive use of skateboards, scooters, and roller skates, subject to those
exceptions stated herein.
78.03   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.  
Any person riding a skateboard, scooter, or roller skates upon a roadway will
be granted all of the rights and will be subject to all of the duties
applicable to the driver of a vehicle by laws of the State declaring rules of
the road applicable to vehicles or by the traffic code of the City applicable
to the driver of a vehicle, except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Whenever such person dismounts a skateboard, scooter,
or roller skates, the person will be subject to all regulations applicable to
pedestrians.
78.04   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
Any person operating a skateboard, scooter, and roller skates must obey the
instructions of official traffic control signals, signs, and other control
devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a Police Officer.
78.05   EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
The operator of a skateboard, scooter, and roller skates emerging from an
alley, driveway, or building must, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk
area extending across any alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians
approaching on said sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway
must yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
78.06   CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any persons traveling upon any skateboard, scooter, or
roller skates to cling to or attach themselves or their device to any moving
vehicle upon any roadway.
78.07   PROHIBITED AREAS.  
It is unlawful for any person to:
   1.   Operate or ride any skateboards, coaster scooters, and roller skates
upon any streets, alleys, sidewalks, or publicly owned parking lot within the
boundaries of the prohibited downtown district.
   2.   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to designate and post signs in
areas where skateboards, scooters or roller skates are prohibited on sidewalks.
No person shall ride a skateboard, scooter or roller skates in such area.
78.08   VIOLATION PENALTY.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter will be guilty of a
municipal infraction.
78.09   SPECIAL PENALTY.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for skateboards, coaster scooters, and roller skates or standard
penalty provided for violations of the Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s
skateboards, coaster scooters, and roller skates to be impounded by the City of
Dyersville for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a
second offense, and 30 days for a third and subsequent offense.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                     80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of 80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                    Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                  80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Notification in Newspaper       80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] & Sec. 321.90)
   1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
      A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
      B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than 24 hours.
      C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property
for more than 24 hours.
      D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
      E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority
to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
      F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
   2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap, or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
   3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person in control of
private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to dispose
of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody the
abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
   The police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall notify, within 20 days, by certified mail, the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle or to personal property found in the vehicle, addressed
to the parties’ last known addresses of record, that the abandoned vehicle has
been taken into custody. Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice
shall describe the year, make, model and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, describe the personal property found in the vehicle, set forth the
location of the facility where the vehicle is being held, and inform the
persons receiving the notice of their right to reclaim the vehicle and personal
property within 10 days after the effective date of the notice upon payment of
all towing, preservation, and storage charges resulting from placing the
vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of the notice. The notice
shall also state that the failure of the owner, lienholders or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders and claimants
of all right, title, claim and interest in the vehicle or personal property and
that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is deemed consent to
the sale of the vehicle at a public auction or disposal of the vehicle to a
demolisher and to disposal of the personal property by sale or destruction. If
the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity without a
police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the private entity
may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90 of the Code of
Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the vehicle. If the abandoned
vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or by a private entity
hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that any person claiming
rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who disputes the
planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police authority or
private entity or of the assessment of fees and charges provided by this
section may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority to
contest those matters. If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing
or exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
10-day reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer
have any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal
property. A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right,
title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the
expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.04   NOTIFICATION IN NEWSPAPER.
   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Section 80.03. The published notice may contain multiple listings of
abandoned vehicles and personal property but shall be published within the same
time requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed
notice in Section 80.03.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3b])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   The owner, lienholder, or claimant must pay $3.00 if claimed within five
days of impounding, plus $1.00 for each additional day within the reclaiming
period plus towing charges, if stored by the City, or towing and storage fees,
if stored in a public garage, whereupon said vehicle shall be released. The
amount of towing charges, and the rate of storage charges by privately owned
garages, shall be established by such facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the
police authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or
not the motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall
dispose of the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found
any abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle
whose title certificate is faulty, lost, or destroyed, may dispose of such
motor vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without
notification procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
The police authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The
applicant shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate
and shall surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of
title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
   Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the
expense of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification
required, in accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner
of the motor vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be
deposited in the State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails
to realize the amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply
for reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
   Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor
vehicle for junk must junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such
motor vehicle. A demolisher must not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish
a vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 81
RAILROAD REGULATIONS
 
81.01 Definitions         81.04 Crossing Maintenance
81.02 Warning Signals     81.05 Speed
81.03 Obstructing Streets
 
81.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Operator” means any individual, partnership, corporation, or other
association that owns, operates, drives, or controls a railroad train.
   2.   “Railroad train” means an engine or locomotive, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1[58])
81.02   WARNING SIGNALS.
   Operators must sound a horn at least 1,000 feet before a street crossing is
reached and after sounding the horn, shall ring the bell continuously until the
crossing is passed.
(49 CFR, §222 & 49 CFR, §229)
81.03   OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   Operators shall not operate any train in such a manner as to prevent
vehicular use of any highway, street, or alley for a period of time in excess
of 10 minutes except:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 327G.32)
   1.   Comply with Signals. When necessary to comply with signals affecting
the safety of the movement of trains.
   2.   Avoid Striking. When necessary to avoid striking any object or person
on the track.
   3.   Disabled. When the train is disabled.
   4.   Safety Regulations. When necessary to comply with governmental safety
regulations including, but not limited to, speed ordinances and speed
regulations.
   5.   In Motion. When the train is in motion except while engaged in
switching operations.
   6.   No Traffic. When there is no vehicular traffic waiting to use the
crossing.
An employee is not guilty of a violation of this section if the employee’s
action was necessary to comply with the direct order or instructions of a
railroad corporation or its supervisors. Guilt is then with the railroad
corporation, as defined by Code of Iowa Sec. 321.1.
81.04   CROSSING MAINTENANCE.
   Operators must construct and maintain good, sufficient, and safe crossings
over any street traversed by their rails.
(Bourett vs. Chicago & N.W. Ry. 152 Iowa 579, 132 N.W. 973 [1943])
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.11)
81.05   SPEED.
   It is unlawful to operate any railroad train between the intersections of
Eighth Street NW, Fifth Street NW, Second Street NE, and Third Street NE at a
speed greater than 45 miles per hour.
(Girl vs. United States R. Admin., 194 Iowa 1382, 189 N.W. 834, [1923])
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Definitions                     90.11 Installation of Water Service Pipe
90.02 Director’s Duties             90.12 Responsibility for Water Service
                                      Pipe
90.03 Mandatory Connection to Public  90.13 Failure to Maintain
Water System and Use of Private Wells
                                      90.14 Curb Valve
90.04 Abandoned Connections           90.15 Interior Valve
90.05 Permit                          90.16 Inspection and Approval
90.06 Connection Charge               90.17 Completion by the City
90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code   90.18 Shutting Off Water Supply
90.08 Plumber Required                90.19 Operation of Curb Valve and
                                      Hydrants
90.09 Excavations                     90.20 Backflow Preventer
90.10 Tapping Mains
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
   1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
   2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service
from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties
the duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
   3.   “Director” means the Director of Public Works of the City or any duly
authorized assistant, agent, or representative.
   4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
   5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
   6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for
securing, collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02   DIRECTOR’S DUTIES.  
The Director shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and their
connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to water
services in the City in accordance with this chapter. This chapter shall apply
to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to new ones. The
Director shall make such rules, not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of the water system,
subject to the approval of the Council. In the event of an emergency the
Director may make temporary rules for the protection of the system until due
consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03   MANDATORY CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM AND USE OF PRIVATE WELLS.
   1.   Connection to the Public Water System. Except as otherwise provided
herein, all residences and business establishments within the City using water
for human habitation or occupancy must connect to the public water system.
Water is used for human habitation or occupancy if it is used in the plumbing
system of a residence or a business occupied by humans.
   2.   Exceptions. A residence or business establishment within the City using
water for human habitation or occupancy may obtain its water from a private
well as follows:
      A.   Existing Wells. A well in existence on the effective date of
Ordinance No. 732 (May 23, 2007) may continue to obtain water from a private
well as follows:
         (1)   For human habitation or occupancy until the date established in
Section 90.03(2).
         (2)   For non-human habitation or occupancy until such time when well
needs repair including pump repair or replacement.
      B.   New Wells. A well may be drilled only upon property that does not
have access to the City water system within 200 feet of the property, and use
of the well for human habitation or occupancy may continue until the date
established herein.
         (1)   Permit. No person shall install or maintain a private well after
the date of enactment of the ordinance codified by this section, or own or use
a private well within the City after such a date, unless the person has
registered such well and obtained a permit for same from the City. The
registration and permit process must be completed on forms provided by the
City.
         (2)   Contaminated Area. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
which permits a private well to remain in existence within the City, neither a
new private well be drilled nor repairs to an existing private well be made
after the date of enactment of the ordinance codified by this section, if the
well is located within a contaminated area.
         (3)   Variance. The City Council, upon recommendation of the Director
of Public Works of the City or any duly authorized assistant, agent, or
representative, may consider a variance or exception to this section on
application to the City.
         (4)   Termination/Abandonment of Use of Existing Wells. The use of any
private well not permitted to continue under this section must cease and the
well shall be plugged in accordance with rules of the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources on May 21, 2009, or 90 days after the date the public water
system is extended to within 200 feet of the affected property, whichever is
later.
            a.   All debris, pump, piping, unsealed liners, and any other
obstructions which may interfere with sealing operations must be removed prior
to abandonment.
            b.   The owner of the well or the owner’s agent, must notify the
system or town at least 48 hours prior to commencement of any well abandonment
activities. The abandonment of the well shall be observed by the Superintendent
of the community water system.
         (5)   Definitions. For use in this section the following terms are
defined:
            a.   “Private well” means any groundwater well, except a monitoring
well used as a part of a remediation system, used both for drinking water and
for non-drinking water purposes, including a groundwater well which is not
properly plugged in accordance with rules of the Iowa Department of Natural
Resources.
            b.   “Contaminated area” means a point within an area that has
groundwater contamination or that in accordance with design models of the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources may become contaminated due to percolation of
groundwater contamination in the vicinity of the well site.
            c.   “Human habitation or occupancy” means use of water in the
plumbing system of a residence or business used or occupied by humans.
            d.   “Groundwater” means subsurface water in the saturated zone
from which wells, springs, and groundwater runoff are supplied.
            e.   “Contamination” means the presence of any harmful or
deleterious substances in the water supply.
   3.   Penalties. Any well owner violating any provision of this section shall
upon conviction be punished by forfeiture of not less than $500.00 and not more
than $750.00 and the cost of prosecution. If any person fails to comply with
this chapter for more than 10 days after receiving notice of the violation, the
community water system may impose a penalty and cause the well abandonment to
be performed and the expense be assessed as a special tax against the property.
90.04   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
   When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a
new tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains must be turned
off at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight.
90.05   PERMIT.
   Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City. The application for the permit must
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water. If the proposed work meets all the requirements of this chapter
and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid, the permit shall be
issued. Work under any permit must be completed within 60 days after the permit
is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or unfair due to
conditions beyond the control of person making the application, an extension of
time within which to complete the work may be granted. The permit may be
revoked at any time for any violation of these chapters.
90.06   CONNECTION CHARGE.
   Before any permit is issued the person who makes the application must pay a
connection charge in the amount of $325.00 for each residential connection and
$425.00 for each commercial or industrial connection to reimburse the City for
costs borne by the City in making water service available to the property
served. The connection charge is in addition to any current special assessment
applicable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
   The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system must comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural, or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code
and the City’s Standard Specifications for Water Distribution Systems.
90.08   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
   All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
must be made by a State-licensed plumber.
90.09   EXCAVATIONS.
   All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
must be performed in accordance with the City of Dyersville Standard
Specifications and the provisions of Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.10   TAPPING MAINS.
   All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision
of the Director and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building, or premises
shall be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained
from the Director and unless provision is made so that each house, building, or
premises may be shut off independently of the other.
   2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter
shall receive no larger than a three-fourths inch tap. All mains of over six
inches in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Director shall order. All taps in the mains must be made
in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main shall be tapped
nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
   3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Director, must be inserted in every tap in the main. The
corporation stop in the main must be of the same size as the service pipe.
   4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap must be filed with the Director in such form as the
Director requires.
90.11   INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
   Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting must be of such
material as specified in the City of Dyersville Standard Specifications for
Water Distribution System.
90.12   RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the public water main to the
building served will be borne by the owner. The owner must indemnify the City
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation or maintenance of said water service pipe.
90.13   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
   When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of
the property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails
to correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to
the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])
90.14   CURB VALVE.
   There must be installed within the public right-of-way a main shut-off valve
of the inverted key type on the water service pipe at the outer sidewalk line
with a suitable lock of a pattern approved by the Director. The shut-off valve
must be covered with a heavy metal cover having the letter “W” marked thereon,
visible and even with the pavement or ground. The proper operation of the turn-
off valve is the responsibility of the property owner. When turn-off is
required by a utility representative and the turn-off is not operative, or if a
failure occurs within the service line, the City shall be held harmless. The
utility representative, at his or her discretion, may discontinue service in a
most efficient manner.
90.15   INTERIOR VALVE.
   There must be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there must be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others. A separate water meter must be
installed for each individual customer. Separate meters must be installed
within 90 days of notification to the property owner that the property is not
in compliance.
90.16   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Director before they are covered, and
the Director shall keep a record of such approvals. If the Director refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or property owner must proceed immediately to
correct the work. Every person who uses or intends to use the municipal water
system must permit the Director to enter the premises to inspect or make
necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable hours and on proof of
authority.
90.17   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
   Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours
after the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system,
or should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish
or correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property
owner or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the
costs before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])
90.18   SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
   The Director may shut off the supply of water to any customer because of any
violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service System chapters
that is not being contested in good faith. The supply shall not be turned on
again until all violations have been corrected and the Director has ordered the
water to be turned on.
90.19   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
   It is unlawful for any person except the Director to turn water on at the
curb valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by the City, shall
open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
90.20   BACKFLOW PREVENTER.
   Any customer who is connected to any other source of water, in addition to
the municipal water system, must install, at said customer’s cost, a backflow
preventer to prevent cross contamination of the municipal water system. The
type and location of the backflow preventer must be approved by the Director
prior to its installation.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                           91.06 Meter Repairs
91.02 Water Use Metered                 91.07 Right of Entry
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception 91.08 Maintenance Test
91.04 Location of Meters                91.09 Meter Testing
91.05 Providing of Meter and Setting
 
91.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02   WATER USE METERED.
   All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished by
the City and installed by the customer.
91.03   FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
   Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Director. No other open,
unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there must be no
valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which must
be sealed open.
91.04   LOCATION OF METERS.
   All meters must be so located that they are easily accessible to meter
readers and repairmen and protected from freezing.
91.05   PROVIDING OF METER AND SETTING.
   The property owner must purchase the first meter to be placed in a new
facility or unit from the City prior to approval of said property owner’s
connection. The price of the meter and flange kits will be the supplier’s price
plus 10% administrative cost. The City shall provide all subsequent meters of a
similar size to the property at no expense to the owner, unless the owner
willfully, or through neglect, damages said meter. The property owner must also
provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper setting the meter
including a globe type valve on the discharge side of the meter. Meter pits may
be used only upon approval of the Director and must be of a design and
construction approved by the Director.
(Ord. 837 - Apr. 23 Supp.)
91.06   METER REPAIRS.
   Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Director shall have it repaired. If it is found that damage to the meter has
occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property
owner, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the property owner shall be
liable for the cost of repairs.
91.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Director shall be permitted to enter the premises of any customer at any
reasonable time to read, remove, or change a meter.
91.08   MAINTENANCE TEST.
   Every meter shall be removed from service periodically and thoroughly tested
for accuracy. Any meter found inaccurate beyond a tolerance of one and one-half
percent shall not be returned to service until properly adjusted.
91.09   METER TESTING.
   The Director shall make a test of the accuracy of any water meter at any
time when requested in writing. If it is found that such meter overruns to the
extent of five percent or more, the cost of the test shall be paid by the City
and a refund shall be made to the customer for overcharges collected since the
last known date of accuracy, but not more than five percent of the total water
bill and not for a longer period than three months. If the meter is found to be
accurate or slow or less than five percent fast, the user must pay a testing
charge of $25.00.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges           92.06 Lien Exemption
92.02 Rates For Service         92.07 Lien Notice
92.03 Billing for Water Service 92.08 Customer Deposits
92.04 Service Discontinued      92.09 Deferred Payments
92.05 Lien for Nonpayment
 
92.01   SERVICE CHARGES.
   Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon
use of water as determined by meters provided for in Chapter 91. Each location,
building, premises, or connection is considered a separate and distinct
customer whether owned or controlled by the same person or not. As a condition
of receiving water service, each customer must provide, upon request, his or
her social security number, if an individual, and its federal identification
number, if an entity. Such identification number shall not be maintained in
customer account records, but shall be maintained in a separate confidential
file by customer name only.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02   RATES FOR SERVICE.
   The person or entity in whose name the meter is registered for each and
every unit, building, erection or parcel of ground, where water is used from
the Municipal System of Waterworks, shall be charged for the use of water as
follows:
   1.   Usage Charge. Each metered customer shall pay a water charge based on
the amount of water used as follows: $6.10 per 1,000 gallons per month.
   2.   SRF Debt Fee. Each metered customer shall pay a State Revolving Fund
(SRF) Fee to help cover water revenue debt based on the amount of water used as
follows: $1.10 per 1,000 gallons per month.
(Subsection 2 – Ord. 861 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
   3.   Bulk Charge. Each customer that receives bulk water from a water
hydrant and/or at a City facility shall pay a bulk water charge based on a
service fee per filling and the amount of water used as follows: $25.00 service
fee per filling and $16.70 per 1,000 gallons.
   4.   Minimum Sum. In addition to the above rates of payment for the use of
water, a minimum sum shall be charged to each owner or occupant for the use of
water. The minimum sum shall be set by the following schedule:
Meter Rate Schedule Minimum Sum
Meter Rate Schedule Minimum Sum
5/8" meter             $   6.44 per month
3/4" meter             $   11.01 per month
1" meter               $   16.51 per month
1 1/4" meter           $   23.81 per month
1 1/2" meter           $   31.14 per month
2" meter               $   42.12 per month
3" meter               $   84.25 per month
4" meter               $   120.87 per month
6" meter               $   230.72 per month
5/8" outside           $   10.28 per month
Trailer Park           $   278.69 per month
 
92.03   BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
   Water service will be billed as part of a combined service account, payable
in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Bills Issued. The Clerk will prepare and issue bills for combined
service accounts on a monthly basis.
   2.   Bills Payable. Bills for combined service accounts are due and payable
at the office of the Clerk 20 days after the date on the bill.
   3.   Late Payment Penalty. Bills not paid when due will be considered
delinquent. A late payment penalty of $2.00 will be added to each delinquent
service account.
92.04   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
   Water service to delinquent customers will be discontinued or disconnected
in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Notice. The Clerk must notify each delinquent customer that service
will be discontinued or disconnected if payment of the combined service
account, including late payment charges and any returned check fees, is not
received by the date specified in the notice of delinquency. Such notice must
be sent by ordinary mail to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges
were incurred and must inform the customer of the nature of the delinquency and
afford the customer the opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance
or disconnection. If payment is not received by the close of business on the
date indicated on said notice, a Disconnect Notice will be delivered to the
location receiving the service advising that service will be disconnected 24
hours after delivery of the Disconnect Notice. A fee of $25.00 will be charged
for delivery of the Disconnect Notice, which amount must be paid with the
delinquent bill to avoid disconnection. If service is disconnected, this fee
will be added to the delinquent bill and must be paid prior to reconnection.
   2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
   3.   Hearing. If a hearing is requested by noon of the day preceding the
shut off, the Water Committee shall conduct an informal hearing and shall make
a determination as to whether the discontinuance or disconnection is justified.
The customer has the right to appeal the Water Committee’s decision to the
Council, and if the Council finds that discontinuance or disconnection is
justified, then such discontinuance or disconnection shall be made, unless
payment has been received.
   4.   Fees. If payment is tendered to the utility representative at the time
of the turn-off trip, there shall be added a service fee of $15.00, and the
representative shall give the customer a receipt for said payment of bill and
fee. Separate turn-off and turn-on trips shall be charged one fee in the amount
of $25.00 at the time of turn-on. No turn-on fee or service fee shall be
charged for the usual or customary trips in the regular changes in occupancies
of property, whether the meter is removed for the safety of the meter, or not
removed. In addition to the above fees, there shall be charged a fee of $30.00
for each check returned unpaid by a financial institution.
   5.   Required Forms of Payment. If a customer has had two utility payment
checks returned within a calendar year, that customer must make payment by
cash, money order or cashiers check for a period of one year from the date the
second check was returned to the City.
92.05   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.06   LIEN EXEMPTION.  
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
   2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply
to the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, storm water drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
   3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
   4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for
nonpayment of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section
shall not be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or
manufactured home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is
owned by a tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home
community and the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or
manager is the account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the
tenant is responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed
to the account holder.
92.07   LIEN NOTICE.
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.08   CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
   There shall be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a two-hundred-dollar ($200.00) deposit intended to guarantee the payment
of bills of service. The deposit shall be returned when the applicant
discontinues using water and when all bills of the applicant due the City are
paid.   
(Ord. 854 – Apr. 23 Supp.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09   DEFERRED PAYMENTS.
A deferred payment agreement may be entered into between a tenant and the City
only after consultation with designated personnel empowered to defer payment.
No agreement shall be entered into until satisfactory proof has been provided
to show that by reason of a hardship a deferred payment schedule may be
negotiated.
CHAPTER 94
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY WELLHEAD PROTECTION REGULATIONS
 
94.01 Definitions                      94.06 Determination of Locations Within
                                       Zones
94.02 Maps of Zones of Influence       94.07 Enforcement and Penalties
94.03 Restrictions Within the Primary  94.08 Inspections
Protection Zone
94.04 Restriction Within the Secondary 94.09 Notice of Violation and Hearing
Protection Zone
94.05 Exceptions                       94.10 Injunctive Relief
 
94.01   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   “Alluvium” means sand, clay, etc., gradually deposited by moving water.
   2.   “Aquifer” means a rock formation, group of rock formations, or part of
a rock formation that contains enough saturated permeable material to yield
significant quantities of water.
   3.   “Contamination” means the presence of any harmful or deleterious
substances in the water supply.
   4.   “Flow system boundaries” means a delineation criterion that uses
groundwater divides, surface water bodies, or other hydrologic/physical
features to delineate a Wellhead Protection Area.
   5.   “Groundwater” means subsurface water in the saturated zone from which
wells, springs, and groundwater runoff are supplied.
   6.   “Hazardous substances” means those materials specified in the most
recent version of Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulation, Section 261,
subparts A, B, C, and D, Federal Hazardous Waste, Section 302, and substances
listed by the Iowa Labor Commissioner pursuant to Section 89B.17 of the Code of
Iowa.
   7.   “Labeled quantities” means the maximum quantity of chemical as
recommended on the label, for specific applications.
   8.   “Person” means any natural person, individual, public or private
corporation, firm association, joint venture, partnership, municipality,
governmental agency, political subdivision, public officer, or any other entity
whatsoever or any combination of such, jointly or severally.
   9.   “Petroleum product” means fuels, (gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene, and
mixtures of these products), lubricating oils, motor oils, hydraulic fluids,
solvents, and other similar products.
   10.   “Pollution” means the presence of any substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) or condition (temperature, pH, turbidity) in water
that tends to degrade usefulness of the water.
   11.   “Potable water” means water that is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary, and domestic purposes, meeting current drinking water standards.
   12.   “Primary containment” means the first level of product-tight
containment, i.e., the inside portion of that container which comes into
immediate contact on its inner surface with the hazardous material being
contained.
   13.   “Public utility” means any utility (gas, water, sewer, electrical,
telephone, cable television, etc.) whether publicly owned or privately owned.
   14.   “Secondary containment” means the level of product-tight containment
external to and separate from the primary containment. Secondary containment
must consist of leakproof trays under containers, floor curbing, or other
containment systems and must be of adequate size and design to handle all
spills, leaks, overflows, and precipitation until appropriate action can be
taken. The specific design and selection of materials must be sufficient to
preclude any substance loss. Containment systems must be sheltered so that the
intrusion of precipitation is effectively prevented.
   15.   “Shallow well” means a well located and constructed in such a manner
that there is not a continuous five-foot layer of low-permeability soil or rock
between the aquifer from which the water supply is drawn and a point 25 feet
below the normal ground surface.
   16.   “Time-related capture zone” means the surface or subsurface area
surrounding a pumping well that will supply groundwater recharge to the well
within some specified period of time.
   17.   “Toxic substance” means any substance that has the capacity to produce
personal injury or illness to humans through ingestion, inhalation, or
absorption into the body.
   18.   “Transit” means the act or process of passing through the wellhead
protection zones, where the vehicle in transit may be parked (within the
wellhead protection area) for a period not to exceed two hours.
   19.   “Water pollution” means the introduction in any surface or underground
water, or any organic or inorganic deleterious substance in such quantities,
proportions, and accumulations that are injurious to human, plant, animal,
fish, and other aquatic life or property or that unreasonably interferes with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property or the conduct of business.
   20.   “Well” means a pit or hole sunk into the earth to reach a resource
supply such as water.
   21.   “Well field” means a tract of land that contains a number of wells for
supplying water.
   22.   “Wellhead protection zones” means delineated fixed radii criterion
around wellheads, within which toxic substances will be regulated to protect
the quality of the underground resource.
   23.   “Zone of contribution” means the area surrounding a pumping well that
encompasses all areas or features that supply groundwater recharge to the well.
94.02   MAPS OF ZONES OF INFLUENCE.
   1.   Maps. Zone of Protection maps and any amendments thereto are
incorporated by reference and made a part of this chapter. These maps shall be
on file at City Hall. At the time of adoption of the ordinance codified by this
chapter the location of all wells in the City of Dyersville supplying potable
water to the City Water System shall be located on the official Wellhead
Protection Map with Primary Zone and Secondary Zone indicated.
   2.   Map Maintenance. The Zone of Protection Maps may be updated on an
annual basis. The basis for such an update may include, but is not limited to,
the following:
      A.   Changes in the technical knowledge concerning the aquifer.
      B.   Changes in permitted pumping capacity of City wells.
      C.   Addition of wells or elimination of existing wells.
      D.   Designation of new well fields.
   3.   Wellhead Protection Zones. The zones of protection indicated on the
zone of protection maps are as follows:
      A.   Primary Protection Zone. The area within a zero to 50-foot capture
zone of any well supplying potable water to the City water system.
      B.   Secondary Protection Zone. The area within a 50 to 150-foot capture
zone, excluding the Primary Protection Zone, of any well supplying potable
water to the City water system.
94.03   RESTRICTIONS WITHIN THE PRIMARY PROTECTION ZONE.
   1.   Permitted Uses. The following uses are permitted uses within the
Primary Protection Zone. Uses not listed are to be considered prohibited.
      A.   Industrial buildings within the Primary Protection Zone, provided
there is no on-site waste disposal or fuel storage tank facilities associated
within this use, and the Iowa DNR separation distances for wells for sources of
contamination is complied with. All sites must comply with the restrictions and
covenants set by the City.
      B.   Playgrounds/parks.
      C.   Wildlife areas, open spaces.
      D.   Lawns and gardens.
      E.   Residential development.
      F.   Non-motorized trails, such as biking, skiing, nature, and fitness
trails.
   2.   Additional restrictions are as follows:
      A.   No person shall discharge or cause or permit the discharge of a
hazardous substance to soils, groundwater, or surface water within the Primary
Protection Zone. Any person knowing or having evidence of a discharge must
report such information to the Wellhead Protection Officer.
      B.   Any person responsible for discharging or causing or permitting such
discharge of hazardous substances will be financially responsible for all
environmental cleanup costs, and may be subject to fines as specified in this
chapter.
      C.   No person shall discharge or cause or permit the discharge of
fertilizers or pesticides in excess of labeled quantities to the soils, ground
water, or surface water within the Primary Protection Zone. Any person knowing
or having evidence of a discharge must report such information to the Wellhead
Protection Officer.
94.04   RESTRICTION WITHIN THE SECONDARY PROTECTION ZONE.
   1.   Permitted Uses. The following uses are permitted in the Secondary
Protection Zone. Uses not listed are to be considered prohibited.
      A.   All uses listed as permitted in the Primary Protection Zone.
      B.   Sewer - residential and commercial.
      C.   Above ground storage tanks when incompliant with State Fire
Marshal’s regulations.
      D.   Basement storage tanks.
      E.   Livestock grazing and field cropping activities.
   2.   Additional restrictions are as follows:
      A.   No person shall discharge or cause or permit the discharge of a
hazardous substance to the soils, groundwater, or surface water within the
Secondary Protection Zone. Any person knowing or having evidence of a discharge
must report such information to the Wellhead Protection Officer.
      B.   Any person responsible for discharging or causing or permitting such
discharge of hazardous substances will be financially responsible for all
environmental cleanup costs, and may be subject to fines specified in this
chapter.
      C.   Any person who stores, handles, produces, or uses chemicals within
the Secondary Protection Zone must make available the relevant MSDS sheets to
the Wellhead Protection Officer regardless of their status under 94.05(4).
94.05   EXCEPTIONS.
   1.   The following activities or uses are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter.
      A.   The transportation of any hazardous substance through the well field
protection zones provided the transporting vehicle is in transit.
      B.   The use of any hazardous substance solely as fuel in a vehicle fuel
tank or as a lubricant in a vehicle.
      C.   Fire, police, emergency medical services, emergency management
center facilities, or public utility transmission facility.
      D.   Retail sales establishments that store and handle hazardous
substances for resale in their original unopened containers only in the
Secondary Protection Zone.
      E.   Consumer products limited to use at a facility solely for janitorial
or minor maintenance purposes.
      F.   Consumer products located in the home which are used for personal,
family, or household purposes.
      G.   The storage and use of hazardous substances as a fuel or lubricant
to provide auxiliary power for emergency use to the well field, provided an
enclosed secondary containment system is provided for the hazardous substance.
      H.   The use of water treatment chemicals connected with the operation of
the well or plant.
   2.   The use of structures or facilities existing at the time of the
adoption of the ordinance codified by this chapter may be continued even though
such use may not conform to the regulations of the chapter. However, the
storage and use of hazardous substances within the primary protection zone must
provide an enclosed secondary containment system. Such structure or facility
may not be enlarged, extended, reconstructed or substituted subsequent to
adoption of said ordinance exemption is granted by the City Council.
   3.   Any person who engages in nonresidential activities relating to the
storage, handling, use, and/or production of any toxic or hazardous substances
who is exempt from this chapter by law is not subject to the restrictions
contained herein.
   4.   All requests for permits or special exceptions in the City of
Dyersville Wellhead Protection Zones must be made in writing to the City
Council. All requests must include a list of all hazardous chemicals (MSDS
sheets will be made available upon request) to be stored, handled, used, or
produced under the permit or special exception. All requests may be required to
include an environmental assessment report at the discretion of the City
Council. Any exemptions or permits granted will be made conditional and may
include environmental monitoring and cleanup costs. The exemption or permit
will be made void if environmental and/or safety monitoring indicate that the
facility or activity is emitting any releases of harmful contaminants to the
surrounding environment. The facility will be held financially responsible for
all environmental cleanup costs.
94.06   DETERMINATION OF LOCATIONS WITHIN ZONES.
   In determining the location of properties within the zones depicted on the
Zone of Protection Maps, the following rules apply:
   1.   Properties located wholly within one zone reflected on the applicable
Zone of Protection Map are governed by the restrictions applicable to that
zone.
   2.   For properties having parts lying within more than one zone as
reflected on the applicable Zone of Protection Map, each part is governed by
the restrictions applicable to the zone in which it is located.
94.07   ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   1.   The Director of Public Works of the City or any duly authorized
assistant, agent, or representative is designated as the Wellhead Protection
Officer to supervise the implementation and enforcement of this chapter.
   2.   The Wellhead Protection Inspector is the Director of Public Works of
the City or any duly authorized assistant, agent, or representative.
   3.   No building permit shall be issued which is a violation of the Iowa DNR
“SEPARATION DISTANCE FROM WELLS,” as published in the Iowa Administrative Code:
IAC [567] 43.3 (7) Table A, “Separation Distances,” or its replacement.
   4.   No new underground tank(s) will be allowed for auxiliary fuel storage
in the Primary or Secondary zones.
   5.   Any person, firm, or corporation who fails to comply with the
provisions of this chapter is subject to the provisions and penalties provided
therein.
94.08   INSPECTIONS.
   1.   The Wellhead Protection Inspector has the power and authority to enter
and inspect all buildings, structures, and land within all wellhead protection
zones for the purpose of making an inspection. Failure of a person having
authority over a property to permit an inspection shall be sufficient grounds
and probable cause for a court of competent jurisdiction to issue a search
warrant to the Protection Officer or Inspector to inspect such premises.
   2.   In the event a building or structure appears to be vacant or abandoned,
and the owner cannot be readily contacted in order to obtain consent for an
inspection, the officer or inspector may enter into or upon any open or
unsecured portion of the premises in order to conduct an inspection thereof.
   3.   The Wellhead Protection Officer or Inspector shall inspect each City
well annually and shall maintain an inventory, if applicable, of all hazardous
substances which exist within the Primary and Secondary Protection Zones. One
format that may be used is Iowa DNR Form, OMB No. 2050-0072. MSDS sheets on
these chemicals will be made available to the Inspector as under 94.05(4).
94.09   NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND HEARING.
   Whenever an officer or an inspector determines that there is a violation of
this chapter, he shall give notice thereof in the manner hereinafter provided.
A notice of violation must:
   1.   Be in writing.
   2.   Be dated and signed by the officer or inspector.
   3.   Specify the violation or violations.
   4.   State that said violation shall be corrected within 10 days of the date
on which the inspector issued the notice of violation.
94.10   INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   If any person who engages in nonresidential activities stores, handles,
uses, and/or produces toxic substances within the wellhead protection zones, as
indicated on the Zone of Protection Maps, continues to operate in violation of
the provisions of this chapter, then, the City may file an action for
injunctive relief in the court of jurisdiction.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.06 Service Outside the City
95.02 Definitions               95.07 Right of Entry
95.03 Director                  95.08 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.09 Special Penalties
95.05 Sewer Connection Required
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to
Sanitary Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment
and disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees C, expressed in milligrams per
liter or parts per million.
   2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
   4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and
sewage.
   5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
   6.   “Director” means the Director of Public Works of the City or any
authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   7.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
   8.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial
manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   9.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the
public sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
   10.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   11.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
   12.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution.
   13.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   14.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial waste.
   15.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   16.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   17.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage.
   18.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   19.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   20.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees
levied against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of
said customers by said sewer system.
   21.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   22.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   23.    “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable
by laboratory filtering.
   24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   DIRECTOR.
   The Director shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
   2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
   3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections, and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
   1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
   2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Director.
   4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
   6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City,
or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
95.05   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the City and
abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located,
or may in the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are
hereby required to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities
therein and a building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the
proper public sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the
provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed
within 60 days after date of official notice from the City to do so provided
that said public sewer is located within 250 feet of the property line of such
owner and is of such design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as
may be conveyed to it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date
of official notice to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
95.06   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])
95.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters. The Director
or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any processes
including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other
industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
95.08   USE OF EASEMENTS.
   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
   The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
   1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section 95.04, shall be served
by the City with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
   2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation
of this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                  96.07 Sewer Tap
96.02 Connection Charge       96.08 Inspection Required
96.03 Plumber Required        96.09 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.04 Excavations             96.10 Abatement of Violations
96.05 Connection Requirements 96.11 Adoption of Plumbing Code
96.06 Interceptors Required
 
96.01   PERMIT.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the City. The application for the permit
must set forth the location and description of the property to be connected
with the sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be used, and
must be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent. The permit shall require the owner to complete
construction and connection of the building sewer to the public sewer within 60
days after the issuance of the permit, except that when a property owner makes
sufficient showing that due to conditions beyond the owner’s control or
peculiar hardship, such time period is inequitable or unfair, an extension of
time within which to comply with the provisions herein may be granted. Any
sewer connection permit may be revoked at any time for a violation of these
chapters.
96.02   CONNECTION CHARGE.
   The person who makes the application must pay a connection charge in the
amount of $325.00 for each residential connection and $425.00 for each
commercial or industrial connection to reimburse the City for costs borne by
the City in making sewer service available to the property served. The
connection charge is in addition to any current special assessment applicable.
96.03   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
   All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer
must be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04   EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer must be
open trench work unless otherwise approved by the City. The excavations must be
made in accordance with the City of Dyersville Standard Specifications and the
provisions of Chapter 135.
96.05   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Director and in accordance with the following:
   1.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted by
the owner and observed by the Director, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
   2.   Separate Building Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands
at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway. In such cases the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   3.   Installation. The size, slope, alignment, and materials of construction
of the building sewer and the connection of the building sewer into the public
sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code or the City
of Dyersville Standard Specifications for Waste Water Collection. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Director before
installation.
   4.   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth of cover above the
sewer must be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
   5.   Sewage Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain must be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer.
96.06   INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil, sludge, and sand interceptors must be provided by gas and
service stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities
when, in the opinion of the Director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand, or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors are not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required, such
interceptors must be installed in accordance with the following:
   1.   Design and Location. All interceptors must be of a type and capacity as
provided by the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Director, and must
be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors must be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They must be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that must be gastight and watertight.
   3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors must be maintained by the owner at
the owner’s expense and must be kept in continuously efficient operations at
all times.
96.07   SEWER TAP.
   Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer must be made at the
“Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” must be installed at the location
specified by the Director. The public sewer must be tapped with a tapping
machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer must be glued or
attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the sewer. At no time
shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a manhole unless special
written permission is received from the Director and in accordance with the
Director’s direction if such connection is approved.
96.08   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered must be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Director. As soon as all pipe work
from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and before any
backfilling is done, the Director must be notified and the Director must
inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material; no sewer pipe laid
underground shall be covered or trenches filled until after the sewer has been
so inspected and approved. If the Director refuses to approve the work, the
plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the work.
96.09   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer must be borne by the owner. The owner must
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
96.10   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon
the private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which
construction or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this
chapter, must be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date
of official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time, the Council, in addition to the other penalties herein provided, has the
right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to the
property owner. Such assessment will be collected with and in the same manner
as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
96.11   ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE.
   The Plumbing Code as adopted and amended by the State of Iowa Administrative
Code 641 Chapter 25 is hereby adopted by reference as the plumbing code for the
City, subject to the amendments and adoptions by the State of Iowa Department
of Public Safety.
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Storm Water              97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of Director
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01   STORM WATER.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. Storm
water and all other unpolluted drainage must be discharged to such sewers that
are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Director. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged on approval of the Director, to a storm sewer,
combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02   SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
   Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer
may be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Director where such
discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but any
permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to the
best interests of the sewer system.
97.03   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel
oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter as
CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
   3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities
or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
      A.   Any waters or wastes: (i) having a five-day biochemical oxygen
demand greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or (ii) containing more
than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or (iii) having an
average daily flow greater than two percent of the average sewage flow of the
City, is subject to the review of the Director.
      B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Director, the owner must
provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to: (i) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight; or (ii) reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
or (iii) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities must be submitted for the approval of
the Director and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Director that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. In
forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the Director will
give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
   1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150 degrees F (65 degrees C).
   2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
   3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees F and 150 degrees
F (0 degrees to 65 degrees C).
   4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to
such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than
one-half inch in any dimension.
   5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
   6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Director for such materials.
   7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste
or odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may
be established by the Director as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-
life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Director in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
   9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
      A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
      B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
   11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
   12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration, or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
   13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are
not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes
employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage
treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF DIRECTOR.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section 97.04 and which in the judgment of the
Director may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the Director may:
   1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
   2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
   3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
   4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling
and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under
the provisions of Chapter 99.
97.06   SPECIAL FACILITIES.
   If the Director permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the
design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Director and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary treatment or flow-
equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they must be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner’s expense.
97.07   CONTROL MANHOLES.
   When required by the Director, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes must install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, must be accessibly and safely located, and
must be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Director. The
manhole must be installed by the owner at the owner’s expense, and must be
maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
97.08   TESTING OF WASTES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples).
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.06 Maintenance of System
98.02 When Required               98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.08 Disposal of Septage
98.04 Permit Required             98.09 Minimum Lot Area
98.05 Discharge Restrictions
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
   When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
Section 95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are
employed shall be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and
disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3 & 4])
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and
disposal system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of
Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch,
stream, pond, lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the
surface of the ground.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
   The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall
operate and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no
expense to the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an
on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section 95.05,
a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with these
Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
   No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
98.09   MINIMUM LOT AREA.
   No permit shall be issued for any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system employing sub-surface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 43,560 square feet.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01 Sewer Service Charges Required 99.04 Payment of Bills
99.02 Special Rates                  99.05 Lien for Nonpayment
99.03 Private Water Systems          99.06 Special Agreements Permitted
 
99.01   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.  
Every customer shall pay to the City sewer service charges as hereinafter
provided. The person or entity in whose name the charge is registered for each
and every unit, building, erection or parcel of ground, where sewer is
connected from the Municipal Sewer System shall be charged for the use of the
City sewer based on water meter readings at the following rates:
   1.   Usage Charge. Each metered customer shall pay a sewer charge based on
the amount of water used, as follows: $9.10 per 1,000 gallons per month.
   2.   SRF Debt Fee. Each metered customer shall pay a State Revolving Fund
(SRF) fee to help cover sewer revenue debt based on the amount of sewer used,
as follows: $5.80 per 1,000 gallons per month.
(Subsection 2 – Ord. 862 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
   3.   Minimum Sum. In addition to the above rate of payment for the use of
sewer, a minimum sum shall be charged to each owner or occupant for the use of
City sewer in accordance with the following water meter rate schedule:
Meter Rate Schedule Minimum Sum
Meter Rate Schedule Minimum Sum
5/8" meter             $   8.27 per month
3/4" meter             $   14.12 per month
1" meter               $   21.18 per month
1 1/4" meter           $   30.59 per month
1 1/2" meter           $   39.99 per month
2" meter               $   52.48 per month
3" meter               $   108.19 per month
4" meter               $   155.23 per month
6" meter               $   296.31 per month
Trailer Park           $   357.91 per month
 
99.02   SPECIAL RATES.
   Where, in the judgment of the Director and the Council, special conditions
exist to the extent that the application of the sewer charges provided in
Section 99.01 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the
customer, a special rate shall be proposed by the Director and submitted to the
Council for approval by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.03   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
   Customers whose premises are served by a private water system must pay sewer
charges based upon the water used as determined by the City either by an
estimate agreed to by the customer or by metering the water system at the
customer’s expense. Any negotiated or agreed-upon sales or charges are subject
to approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.04   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section 92.03 of this Code of Ordinances. Sewer service may be discontinued or
disconnected in accordance with the provisions contained in Section 92.04 if
the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions contained
in Section 92.07 relating to lien notices also apply in the event of a
delinquent account.
99.05   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   Except as provided for in Section 92.06 of this Code of Ordinances, the
owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly
and severally liable for sewer service charges to the premises. Sewer service
charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the
property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the County
Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.06   SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
   No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Purpose                    105.07 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.02 Definitions                105.08 Waste Storage Containers
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required 105.09 Solid Waste Collection Containers
                                  and Dumpsters
105.04 Open Burning Restricted    105.10 Prohibited Practices
105.05 Separation of Yard Waste   105.11 Sanitary Disposal Project
Required                          Designated
105.06 Littering Prohibited
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety, and welfare as may
result from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from
public and private places.
   2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
   3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving, and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all
offal, excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage.
The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   6.   “Landscaping contractor” means any person engaged in the activities of
landscape and/or yard maintenance for hire.
   7.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
   8.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating or transacting business in
any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
   9.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste, and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   10.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and multiple-
family dwellings of 6 units or less.
   11.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes, and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(IAC, 567-20.2[4558])
   12.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible
and non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   13.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   14.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   15.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities. Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of
the Code of Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
      A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
      B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
      C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
      D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
      E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
      F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A
of the Code of Iowa.
      G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
         (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
         (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing
to ensure production is not interrupted.
105.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all
refuse accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any
such accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 10
calendar days shall be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such
nuisances in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 50 or by initiating
proper action in district court.
105.04   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall allow, cause or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(IAC, 567-23.2[455B] and 567-100.2)
   1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape
waste, for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an
officially declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of
any structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3a])
   2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings
at a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in
compliance with the rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3b])
   3.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3c])
   4.   Landscape Waste. The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises. However, the burning of landscape waste produced
in clearing, grubbing, and construction operations must be limited to areas
located at least one-fourth mile from any building inhabited by other than the
landowner or tenant conducting the open burning. Rubber tires shall not be used
to ignite landscape waste.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3d])
   5.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources. Rubber
tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3e])
   6.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide
training of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided
that the training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by
the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3g])
   7.   Pesticide Containers and Seed Corn Bags. The disposal by open burning
of paper or plastic pesticide containers (except those formerly containing
organic forms of beryllium, selenium, mercury, lead, cadmium, or arsenic) and
seed corn bags resulting from farming activities occurring on the premises if
burned in accordance with rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3h])
   8.   Agricultural Structures. The open burning of agricultural structures if
in accordance with rules and limitations established by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3i])
   9.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of
a demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3j])
   10.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[2])
105.05   SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
   All yard waste must be separated by the owner or occupant from all other
solid waste accumulated on the premises and must be composted or burned on the
premises, placed in acceptable containers and set out for collection, or
deposited at the City’s yard waste disposal site. As used in this section,
“yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden waste,
brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455D.9)
105.06   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.07   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials must be transported and
disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. As used in this section, “toxic and hazardous waste” means waste
materials, including (but not limited to) poisons, pesticides, herbicides,
acids, caustics, pathological waste, flammable or explosive materials, and
similar harmful waste that requires special handling and that must be disposed
of in such a manner as to conserve the environment and protect the public
health and safety.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
105.08   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates must provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Container Specifications. Waste storage containers must comply with the
following specifications:
      A.   Residential. Residential waste containers must be in conformity with
Section 107.04 of this Code of Ordinances.
      B.   Commercial. Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or
renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse accumulates
and where its storage in portable containers as required above is impractical,
must maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the City.
   2.   Storage of Containers. Residential solid waste containers must be
stored upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers must be
stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site must be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel. All owners of residential and
commercial premises are responsible for proper storage of all garbage and yard
waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around neighboring
yards and streets.
105.09   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION CONTAINERS AND DUMPSTERS.
   1.   No solid waste containers or dumpsters shall be placed upon any City
street, alley, or traffic way without the expressed authorization of the Police
Chief or designee.
   2.   Any solid waste container or dumpster that is allowed to temporarily
sit on a public street, alley, or traffic right-of-way, must be clearly visible
and marked with reflective tape, reflectors, or lights.
   3.   Solid waste collection containers or dumpsters may be required to be
indicated by the use of barricades or warning cones.
105.10   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste
containers not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of
such containers.
   2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
   3.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed
for high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
   4.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste which has been placed out
for collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
   5.   Non-Natural Materials. Dump at the landscape waste site any man-made
materials to include, but not limited to: cardboard containers, plastic or
paper bags, or any material or items that are not of natural origin.
   6.   Collector/Landscape Contractor Dumping. Dispose of landscape waste at
the landscape waste site collected by collector or landscape contractors unless
the collector or landscape contractor has a current permit from the City’s
designated hauler authorizing said collector or landscape contractor to dispose
of landscape waste at said site.
   7.   Nonresidential Landscape Waste from Outside the City Limits. Dumping
any landscape waste generated on properties located outside the City limits.
105.11   SANITARY DISPOSAL PROJECT DESIGNATED.
   The sanitary landfill facilities operated by Dubuque Metro Area Solid Waste
Agency are hereby designated as the official “Public Sanitary Disposal Project”
for the disposal of solid waste produced or originating within the City.
(Ch. 105 – Ord. 852 – Jan. 23 Supp.)
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.06 Right of Entry
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.07 Contract Requirements
106.03 Loading                 106.08 Collection Fees
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.09 Lien for Nonpayment
106.05 Bulky Rubbish
 
106.01   COLLECTION SERVICE.
   The City shall provide by contract for the collection of solid waste, except
bulky rubbish as provided in
Section 106.05. The owners or operators of commercial, industrial,
institutional, or 7 or more multi-family units must provide for the collection
of solid waste produced upon such premises.
106.02   COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be cleaned
to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be maintained in
good repair.
(IAC, 567-104.9[455B])
106.03   LOADING.
   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any
solid waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will
not fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or
loss of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04   FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once
each week and from commercial, industrial and institutional premises as
frequently as may be necessary, but not less than once each week.
106.05   BULKY RUBBISH.
   Bulky rubbish that is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal
manner of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request in
accordance with procedures established by the collector.
106.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property
for the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter;
however, solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other
residential buildings.
106.07   CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting,
processing or disposing of solid waste from residential premises for the City
without first entering into a contract with the City. This section does not
prohibit an owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises
owned, occupied or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of
properly in an approved sanitary disposal project. Furthermore, a contract is
not required for the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material
from grading or excavation activities, provided that all such materials are
conveyed in tight vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained
that none of the material being transported is spilled upon any public right-
of-way.
106.08   COLLECTION FEES.
   The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 179 NW 2nd, 449 (Iowa 1970))
   1.   Fee for Collection. The fee for solid waste collection will be as
established, from time to time, by separate resolution of the Council.
   2.   Payment of Bills. All fees are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section 92.03 of this Code of Ordinances. Solid waste collection service may be
discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in
Section 92.04 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the
provisions contained in
Section 92.07 relating to lien notices also applies in the event of a
delinquent account.
106.09   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   Except as provided for in
Section 92.06 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and
any lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for
solid waste collection and disposal. Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and shall be certified
by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
(Ch. 106 – Ord. 852 – Jan. 23 Supp.)
CHAPTER 107
UNIT BASED PRICING SYSTEM
 
107.01 Purpose                      107.07 Accumulations Hazardous to Health or
                                    Property
107.02 Definitions                  107.08 Public Nuisance
107.03 Collection by Operator       107.09 Hauling Solid Waste, Domestic
                                    Refuse, Recyclables, or Yard Waste
107.04 Container Specifications     107.10 Enforcement
107.05 Treatment Pending Collection 107.11 Charges
107.06 Location of Containers       107.12 Deposits Required
 
107.01   PURPOSE.  
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a unit based pricing system for the
collection of residential solid waste in the City to reduce tonnage at the
sanitary landfill.
107.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   1.   “Domestic refuse” means all types of solid waste which normally
originate in the residential household, including, but not limited to waste
paper, rags, boxes, and clothing. It does not include bulky waste requiring
special pickup.
   2.   “Garbage” means the solid or semi-solid animal and vegetable waste
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and serving of foods,
including cans, bottles, and cartons in which it is received and wrappings in
which it is received, and wrappings in which it may be placed for disposal,
except such cans, bottles, and cartons as are designated as recyclables.
   3.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, or occupying any premises and as between such
parties the duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations hereinafter
imposed shall be joint and several.
   4.   “Person” means an individual, or group or association of individuals; a
firm or any member thereof; a corporation or any executive officer, manager,
person in charge, or employee thereof.
   5.   “Recyclables” means all types of newspapers and inserts, paperboard,
corrugated cardboard, clear glass food and beverage containers, tin and
aluminum cans, plastic milk, water, orange juice, and windshield washer fluid
jugs (#2HDPE), and other items as deemed necessary by the City Council.
   6.   “Residential premises” means all single-family dwellings and multi-
family dwellings of 6 units or less.
   7.   “Solid waste” means unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
commercial, industrial, domestic, and agricultural operations and normal
community activities. Wastes which are solid or semi-solid containing
insufficient liquid to be free-flowing are considered solid wastes and include
in part the following: garbage, refuse, ashes, and other residue of
incineration, street refuse or sweepings, dead animals, solid animal waste,
agricultural, commercial, and industrial wastes, construction and demolition
wastes, and certain sewage treatment solid residue.
   8.   “Yard waste” means all organic debris (e.g., grass clippings, leaves,
tree limbs, bark, branches, flowers, etc.) which is produced as part of yard
and garden development and maintenance. Does not include tree stumps.
107.03   COLLECTION BY OPERATOR.
   The operator shall collect garbage, domestic refuse, recyclables, and yard
waste from all residential premises as hereinabove defined in accordance with
and subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   1.   Garbage and domestic refuse shall be collected once weekly.
   2.   Yard waste:
      A.   Grass clippings and leaves shall be collected once a week from April
1 through November 1st provided that they are in City of Dyersville Lawn and
Leaf bags so as to prevent the dispersal of such wastes upon the premises
served or upon adjacent property or public rights of way. Residents may take
grass and leaves to the Dyersville Compost Site landfill at no charge, if
hauled in bulk or if containers are emptied by the individual on site, during
specified times.
      B.   Large tree limbs that are not reduced to allow chipping on site will
not be permitted at the compost site. Such limbs may not exceed two inches in
diameter.
      C.   Christmas trees, wreaths, and ropings will be collected once after
the holidays at the curb. All materials must be free of wire and hardware.
Flocked trees may contain toxic substances or wire; therefore, they will not be
picked up. Individuals will be responsible for hauling them to a designated
site.
   3.   Recyclables shall be collected once weekly:
      A.   Clear glass food and beverage containers rinsed clean with caps and
lids removed.
      B.   Tin and aluminum cans (pop cans, tin soup cans, coffee cans, etc.)
rinsed clean with paper labels removed. Aerosol cans cannot be recycled.
      C.   Plastic milk jugs (#2HDPE), rinsed clean, with caps and rings
removed and discarded.
      D.   Other items as deemed by the City Council.
   4.   Time Limit. Containers, bags, packages, or other solid waste placed at
the curb or alley line shall not be placed more than one day in advance of the
scheduled collection day. Yard waste must be collected once each week starting
April 1, through November 1. Exception: Christmas trees, wreaths, or ropings.
107.04   CONTAINER SPECIFICATIONS.
   Solid waste containers shall not be more than 33 gallons or less than 10
gallons in nominal capacity except, however, where only one container is used,
in which case such container may be less than 10 gallons in capacity.
Containers must be waterproof, ratproof, and fitted with a tight lid.
Containers must have handles, bails, or other suitable lifting devices or
features. Containers must be of a type originally manufactured for garbage or
other solid wastes, with tapered sides for easy emptying. They must be of light
weight and sturdy construction. The weight of any individual container along
with contents shall not exceed 40 pounds. Galvanized iron and similar metal
containers, rubber or fiberglass containers, and plastic containers which do
not become brittle in cold weather may be used. Oil or grease drums, paint
cans, or similar salvaged containers are not acceptable. All garbage and other
solid waste must be placed in suitable containers. Large, bulky items such as
furniture and appliances that cannot be reduced to fit approved containers will
not be collected.
107.05   TREATMENT PENDING COLLECTION.
   All solid waste consisting of waste animal and vegetable matter which may
attract flies or rodents must be drained of all excess liquid, securely wrapped
in paper, and placed in paper bags or otherwise packaged before it is placed in
containers.
107.06   LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   The City reserves the right to designate collection from streets or alleys
where the same exist. Where alley collections are designated, containers must
be placed in plain view on the premises adjacent to the alley. Where street
collections are designated, containers must be placed at the curb line. During
the winter season, access to the containers, as well as the containers
themselves, must be cleared from snow by the owner within a reasonable time
after a snowfall.
107.07   ACCUMULATIONS HAZARDOUS TO HEALTH OR PROPERTY.
   Accumulations hazardous to health or other property are unlawful for any
person to permit to accumulate, on any premises, improved or vacant, or on any
public place, such quantities of solid waste, refuse, yard waste, or
recyclables, in containers or not, which constitutes a health or sanitation
hazard. It is also unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate quantities
of solid waste within or close to any building unless the same are stored in
containers in such a manner as not to create a health or fire hazard.
107.08   PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The accumulation of solid waste, refuse, yard waste, or recyclables contrary
to the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to constitute a nuisance
as set out in
Section 107.07 of this chapter.
107.09   HAULING SOLID WASTE, DOMESTIC REFUSE, RECYCLABLES, OR YARD WASTE.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to prevent the owner from hauling solid
waste, refuse, yard waste, or recyclables accumulating on premises of the
owner; provided, such materials are disposed of at the designated Dubuque
County Waste Agency landfill or a recyclable processing site in accordance with
this chapter. This chapter does not intend to prevent the owner from hauling
yard waste to the landfill or to land apply if done according to State
regulations.
107.10   ENFORCEMENT.
   It is the duty of the City Administrator or designee to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
107.11   CHARGES.
   Fees for collection are to be as established from time to time by separate
resolution of the Council and shall be charged by the City and collected from
each single-family dwelling and each separate dwelling unit within a multiple-
family dwelling, or owner of a residential premises as defined in Section
107.02(6) serviced by garbage, solid waste, recyclables, or yard waste
collection service as provided for in this chapter. This charge shall be in
payment for collection of one container of garbage or solid waste per week and
one collection of recyclables and/or yard waste per week as herein set out in
Section 107.04. Such monthly charge shall be billed to the owner as provided in
Section 106.08 of this Code of Ordinances. The collection of garbage, solid
waste, recyclables, and yard waste as provided for in this chapter, and
maintenance of the availability of such service, whether or not such service is
used regularly or at all by the owner of such residential premises, is hereby
declared a benefit to the said premises at least equal to the monthly charges
specified in this chapter.
107.12   DEPOSITS REQUIRED.
   Deposits shall be required for solid waste collection service at the
discretion of the City Administrator.
(Ch. 107 – Ord. 852 – Jan. 23 Supp.)
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
 
110.01 Franchise Granted               110.06 Relocation of Company Facilities
110.02 Term                            110.07 Confidential Information
110.03 Governing Rules and Regulations 110.08 Force Majeure
110.04 Franchise Fee                   110.09 Hold Harmless
110.05 Construction and Maintenance of 110.10 Termination
Company Facilities
 
110.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
   The City hereby grants a nonexclusive franchise to Aquila, Inc, d/b/a Aquila
Networks, a Delaware corporation, (hereinafter called “Grantee”), its lessees,
successors, and assigns. Grantee is hereby granted the right, privilege,
franchise, permission, and authority to lay, construct, install, maintain,
operate, and extend in, along, over, or across the present and future streets,
alleys, avenues, bridges, public rights-of-way, and public places as are
now within the present or future limits of the City, a natural gas distribution
system and all facilities necessary for the purpose of supplying natural gas or
processed gas for all purposes to the inhabitants of the City and consumers in
the vicinity thereof, and for the distribution of natural gas from or through
the City to points beyond the limits thereof. Such facilities shall include,
but not be limited to, all mains, services, pipes, conduits, and appliances
necessary or convenient for transmitting, transporting, distributing, and
supplying natural gas for all purposes for which it may be used, and to do all
other things necessary and proper in providing natural gas service to the
inhabitants of the City and in carrying on such business.
110.02   TERM.  
The rights and privileges granted by this chapter shall remain in effect for a
period of 25 years from the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter† 7  subject to cancellation at the end of the tenth year.
 
Notes
7 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 734 adopting a natural gas franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on December 3, 2007.
110.03   GOVERNING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   1.   This franchise is granted subject to all conditions, limitations, and
immunities now provided for, or as hereafter amended, and applicable to the
operations of a public utility, by State or Federal law. The rates to be
charged by Grantee for service within the present or future corporate limits of
City and the rules and regulations regarding the character, quality and
standards of service to be furnished by Grantee are under the jurisdiction and
control of such regulatory body or bodies as may, from time to time, be vested
by law with authority and jurisdiction over the rates, regulations, and quality
and standards of service to be supplied by Grantee. In determining the rights
and duties of the Grantee, the terms of this franchise ordinance take
precedence over any conflicting terms or requirements contained in any other
ordinance enacted by the City.
   2.   If an energy supplier is unable to furnish an adequate supply of energy
due to an emergency, an order or decision of a public regulatory body, or other
acts beyond the control of the Grantee, then the Grantee has the right and
authority to adopt reasonable rules and regulations limiting, curtailing, or
allocating extensions of service or supply of energy to any customers or
prospective customers, and withholding the supply of energy to new customers,
provided that such rules and regulations shall be uniform as applied to each
class of customers or prospective customers, and shall be non-discriminatory as
between communities receiving service from the Grantee.
110.04   FRANCHISE FEE.
   1.   The City of Dyersville, Iowa, (hereinafter referred to as the
“Municipality”) hereby increases the franchise fee from 1% to 3% on every
natural gas and every other person, firm or corporation, their successors and
assigns, owning, operating, controlling, leasing or managing a natural gas
plant or system and/or generating, manufacturing, selling, distributing or
transporting natural gas (hereinafter referred to, collectively, as “Natural
Gas Providers,” each, individually, an “Natural Gas Provider”). Natural Gas
Providers shall increase the amount collected from their customers located
within the corporate limits of the Municipality and pay to the Municipality an
amount equal to three percent (3%) of gross receipts Natural Gas Providers
derive from the sale, distribution or transportation of natural gas or electric
delivered within the present limits of the Municipality. Gross receipts as used
herein are revenues received from the sale, distribution or transportation of
natural gas, after adjustment for the net write-off of uncollectible accounts
and corrections of bills theretofore rendered.
   2.   The amount paid by Natural Gas Providers shall be in lieu of, and
Natural Gas Providers shall be exempt from, all other fees, charges, taxes or
assessments which the Municipality may impose for the privilege of doing
business within the Municipality, including, without limitation, excise taxes,
occupation taxes, licensing fees, or right-of-way permit fees, and in the event
the Municipality imposes any such fee, charge, tax or assessment, the payment
to be made by Natural Gas Providers in accordance with this ordinance shall be
reduced in an amount equal to any such fee, charge, tax or assessment imposed
upon the Natural Gas Providers. Ad valorem property taxes imposed generally
upon all real and personal property within the Municipality shall not be deemed
to affect Natural Gas Providers’ obligations under this ordinance.
   3.   Natural Gas Providers shall report and pay any amount payable under
this ordinance on a monthly basis. Such payment shall be made no more than
thirty (30) days following the close of the period for which payment is due.
Initial and final payments shall be prorated for the portions of the periods at
the beginning and end of any franchise granted by the City of Dyersville, Iowa,
to a Natural Gas Provider.
   4.   Natural Gas Providers shall list the franchise fee collected from
customers as a separate item on bills for utility service issued to their
customers. If at any time the Iowa Utilities Board or other authority having
proper jurisdiction prohibits such recovery, Natural Gas Providers will no
longer be obligated to collect and pay the franchise fee until an alternate
lawful franchise fee can be negotiated and implemented. In addition, with prior
approval of City, Natural Gas Providers may reduce the franchise fee payable
for natural gas delivered to a specific customer when such reduction is
required to attract or retain the business of that customer.
   5.   Within ten (10) days of the date of this ordinance, the Municipality
shall provide the Natural Gas Providers with a Map of its corporate limits (the
“Map”). The map shall be of sufficient detail to assist Natural Gas Providers
in determining whether their customers reside within the Municipality’s
corporate limits. The Map along with Natural Gas Provider’s Geographic
Information System (“GIS”) mapping information shall serve as the sole basis
for determining energy provider’s obligation hereunder to collect and pay the
franchise fee from customers; provided, however, that if the Municipality’s
corporate limits are changed by annexation or otherwise, it shall be the
Municipality’s sole responsibility to (a) update the Map so that such changes
are included therein, and (b) provide the updated Map to the Natural Gas
Providers. A Natural Gas Provider’s obligation to collect and pay the franchise
fee from customers within an annexed area shall not commence until the later:
(a) of sixty (60) days after such Natural Gas Provider’s receipt from the
Municipality of an updated Map including such annexed area, or (b) such time
after such Natural Gas Provider’s receipt from the Municipality of an updated
Map including such annexed area as is reasonably necessary for such Natural Gas
Provider to identify the customers in the annexed area obligated to pay the
franchise fee.
   6.   The Municipality shall provide copies of annexation ordinances to
Natural Gas Providers on a timely basis to ensure appropriate franchise fee
collection from customers within the corporate limits of the City as set forth
in Subsection 4 above.
   7.   The Municipality shall have access to and the right to examine, during
normal business hours, Natural Gas Provider’s books, receipts, files, records
and documents as is reasonably necessary to verify the accuracy of payments due
hereunder; provided, that the Municipality shall not exercise such right more
than twice per calendar year. If it is determined that a mistake was made in
the payment of any franchise fee required hereunder, such mistake shall be
corrected promptly upon discovery such that any under-payment by an natural gas
provider shall be paid within thirty (30) days of recalculation of the amount
due, and any over-payment by an energy provider shall be deducted from the next
payment of such franchise fee due by such Natural Gas Provider to the
Municipality; provided, that neither party shall have the obligation to correct
a mistake that is discovered more than one (1) year after the occurrence
thereof.
   8.   Any and all ordinances or portions thereof which are in conflict
herewith are hereby repealed, specifically Ordinance 773.
   9.   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage and publication according to law.
(Section 110.04 – Ord. 858 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
110.05   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
   1.   Any pavements, sidewalks, or curbing taken up and any and all
excavations made must be done in such a manner as to cause only such
inconvenience to the inhabitants of City and to the general public as is
reasonably necessary; and repairs and replacements must be made promptly by
Grantee, leaving such properties in as good as condition as existed immediately
prior to excavation.
   2.   Subject to State laws and rules, Iowa Utility Board regulations, and
Grantee’s tariff on file with the Iowa Utilities Board, Grantee agrees for and
on behalf of itself, its lessees, successors, and assigns, that for and during
the term and period of this grant, it will maintain in the City an adequate,
modern, standard, and sufficient gas system and appurtenances and must maintain
and operate the same in a modern and adequate fashion and in a manner adequate
to meet the necessities and requirement of the City, its industries and
inhabitants. While maintaining its facilities and equipment, Grantee must
obtain permits as required by ordinance, except that in emergency situations,
Grantee shall take immediate unilateral actions as it determines are necessary
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; in which case, Grantee must
notify City as soon as reasonably possible.
   3.   City will give Grantee reasonable notice of plans for street
improvements where paving or resurfacing of a permanent nature is involved that
affect Grantee’s facilities. The notice shall contain the nature and character
of the improvements, the rights-of-way upon which the improvements are to be
made, the extent of the improvements and the time when the City will start the
work, and, if more than one right-of-way is involved, the order in which this
work is to proceed. The notice shall be given to the Grantee a sufficient
length of time, considering seasonable working conditions, in advance of the
actual commencement of the work to permit the Grantee to make any additions,
alterations, or repairs to its facilities.
110.06   RELOCATION OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
   If City elects to change the grade of or otherwise alter any street, alley,
avenue, bridge, public right-of-way, or public place for a public purpose,
Grantee, upon reasonable notice from City, must remove and relocate its
facilities or equipment situated in the public rights-of-way, if such removal
is necessary to prevent interference and not merely for the convenience of the
City, at the cost and expense of Grantee. If City orders or requests Grantee to
relocate its facilities or equipment for the primary benefit of a commercial or
private project, or as a result of the initial request of a commercial or
private developer or other non-public entity, and such removal is necessary to
prevent interference and not merely for the convenience of the City or other
right-of-way user, Grantee shall receive payment for the cost of such
relocation as a precondition to relocating its facilities or equipment. City
shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works projects
so as not arbitrarily to cause Grantee unreasonable additional expense in
exercising its authority under this section. City shall also provide a
reasonable alternative location for Grantee’s facilities. City shall give
Grantee written notice of vacating of a public right-of-way. Vacating of a
public right-of-way shall not deprive the Grantee of its right to operate and
maintain existing facilities, until the reasonable cost of relocating the same
are first paid to the Grantee. Any person or corporation desiring to move a
building or other structure along, or to make any unusual use of any street,
alley, avenue, bridge, public right-of-way, or public place which interferes
with the facilities or equipment of the Grantee, must first give notice to the
City and the Grantee and pay a sum sufficient to cover the expense and damage
incident to the moving of Grantee's facilities and equipment.
110.07   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   City acknowledges that certain information it might request pursuant to this
franchise may be of a proprietary and confidential nature. If Grantee requests
that any information provided by Grantee to City be kept confidential due to
such proprietary or commercial value, City and its employees, agents, and
representatives must maintain the confidentiality of that information, to the
extent allowed by law. If City is requested or required by legal or
administrative process to disclose any such confidential information, City must
promptly notify Grantee of such request or requirement so that Grantee may seek
an appropriate protective order or other relief. City must use all reasonable
efforts to ensure that the confidentiality of Grantee's confidential
information is maintained.
110.08   FORCE MAJEURE.
   It is not a breach or default under this franchise if either party fails to
perform its obligations hereunder due to Force Majeure. Force Majeure includes
the following:
   1.   Physical events such as acts of God, landslides, lightning,
earthquakes, fires, freezing, storms, floods, washouts, explosions, breakage,
or accident or necessity of repairs to machinery, equipment, or distribution or
transmission lines;
   2.   Acts of others such as strikes, work-force stoppages, riots, sabotage,
insurrections, or wars;
   3.   Governmental actions such as necessity for compliance with any court
order, law, statute, ordinance, executive order, or regulation promulgated by a
governmental authority having jurisdiction; and any other causes, whether of
the kind herein enumerated or otherwise, not reasonably within the control of
the affected party to prevent or overcome. Each party must make reasonable
efforts to avoid Force Majeure and to resolve such event as promptly as
reasonably possible once it occurs in order to resume performance; provided,
however, that this provision does not obligate a party to settle any labor
strike.
110.09   HOLD HARMLESS.
   Grantee, during the term of this franchise, agrees to save harmless City
from and against all claims, demands, losses, and expenses arising directly out
of the negligence of Grantee, its employees, or agents, in the constructing,
operating, and maintaining of distribution and transmission facilities or
appliances of Grantee; provided, however, that Grantee need not save harmless
City from claims, demands, losses and expenses arising out of the negligence of
City, its employees, or agents.
110.10   TERMINATION.
   If the Grantee is in default in the performance of any of the terms and
conditions of this franchise and continues in default for more than 30 days
after receiving notice from the City of such default, the City may, by
resolution duly passed and adopted, terminate all rights granted under this
franchise to the Grantee. The said notice of default must specify the provision
or provisions in the performance of which it is claimed the Grantee is in
default. Said notice must be in writing and served in the manner provided by
the laws of the State for the service of original notices in civil actions.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
111.01 Franchise Granted                111.08 Nonexclusive
111.02 Poles and Wires; Indemnification 111.09 Continuous Service
111.03 Indemnity                        111.10 Fixtures and Appurtenances
111.04 Excavations                      111.11
                                          Franchise Fee
111.05 Construction and Maintenance     111.12
                                          Term of Franchise
111.06 Meters                           111.13 Entire Agreement
111.07 System Requirements
 
111.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
   There is hereby granted to INTERSTATE POWER & LIGHT COMPANY, hereinafter
referred to as the “Company,” its successors, and assigns, the right and
franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain, and operate in the City works
and plants for the manufacture and generation of electricity and a distribution
system for electric light, heat, and power and the right to erect and maintain
the necessary poles, lines, wires, conduits, and other appliances for the
distribution of electric current along, under and upon the streets, avenues,
alleys, and public places in the City; also the right to erect and maintain
upon the streets, avenues, alleys, and public places, electric lines through
the City to supply individuals, corporations, communities, and municipalities
both inside and outside of the City with electric light, heat, and power for
the period of 25 years† 8  subject to a limited right of cancellation at the
end of the tenth year anniversary of the Anniversary Date as defined within;
also the right of eminent domain as provided in Section 364.2 of the Code of
Iowa.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 745 adopting an electric franchise for the
8 City, was passed and adopted on December 1, 2008.
   
111.02   POLES AND WIRES; INDEMNIFICATION.
   The poles, wires, and appliances must be placed and maintained so as not to
unnecessarily interfere with the travel on said streets, alleys, and public
places in the City or unnecessarily interfere with the proper use of the same,
including ordinary drainage or with the sewers, underground pipe, and other
property of the City.
111.03   INDEMNITY.
   The Grantee must hold the City free and harmless of and from any and all
liability, damages, actions, and causes of action, caused by or through the
neglect or mismanagement of the Grantee in the erection, installation,
construction, reconstruction, repair, operation, maintenance, management, or
control of said electric plant and electric transmission and distribution
system.
111.04   EXCAVATIONS.
   In making any excavations in any street, alley, avenue, or public place,
Company, its successors, and assigns, must protect the site while work is in
progress by guards, barriers, or signals, must not unnecessarily obstruct the
use of the streets, must back fill all openings in such manner as to prevent
settling or depressions in surface, and must replace the surface, pavement, or
sidewalk of such excavations with same materials, restoring the condition as
nearly as practical and if defects are caused must repair the same.
111.05   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The Company must, at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its existing
facilities or equipment in, on, over, or under any public street or alley in
the City in such manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the
purposes of facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or
repair of the street or alley or any public improvement of, in, or about any
such street or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any
such improvement. If the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its
existing facilities or equipment for the primary benefit of a commercial or
private project, or as the result of the initial request of a commercial or
private developer or other non-public entity, the Company shall receive payment
for the cost of such relocation as a precondition to relocating its existing
facilities or equipment. The City shall consider reasonable alternatives in
designing its public works projects so as not to arbitrarily cause the Company
unreasonable additional expense in exercising its authority under this section.
The City shall also provide a reasonable alternative location for the Company’s
facilities. The City shall give the Company reasonable advance written notice
to vacate a public right-of-way. Vacating a public right-of-way shall not
deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain existing facilities,
until the reasonable cost of relocating the same are paid to the Company.
111.06   METERS.
   The Company, its successors, and assigns must furnish and install all meters
at its own expense, and must provide the service wire to buildings as set forth
in the Company’s tariff filed with the Iowa Utilities Board.
111.07   SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   The system authorized by this chapter must be modern and up-to-date and must
be of sufficient capacity to supply all reasonable demands of the City and the
inhabitants thereof and must be kept in a modern and up-to-date condition.
111.08   NONEXCLUSIVE.  
   The franchise granted by this chapter is not exclusive.
111.09   CONTINUOUS SERVICE.
   Service to be rendered by the Company under this chapter shall be continuous
unless prevented from so doing by fire, acts of God, unavoidable accidents or
casualties, or reasonable interruptions necessary to properly service the
Company’s equipment, and in such event service must be resumed as quickly as is
reasonably possible.
111.10   FIXTURES AND APPURTENANCES.  
   The Company, upon request of the City, must permit its poles, conduits, and
other distribution facilities, so far as may be done without interfering with
the free use and enjoyment of its own wires and fixtures, to be used for the
purpose of maintaining thereon any control wires and other appurtenances which
may be necessary for any City department. Said City shall hold the Company
harmless from any and all causes of action for injury, litigation, or damages
which may arise out of or by reason of the placing or maintenance of such
control wires and other appurtenances by said City upon facilities of the
Company, provided such causes of action did not arise out of the negligence of
the Company. Such control wires and other appurtenances must meet all
applicable Federal and State codes, rules, and regulations that may be in
effect.
111.11   FRANCHISE FEE.  
   There is hereby imposed a franchise fee of three percent (3%) upon the gross
revenue generated from sales of electricity by the Company within the corporate
limits of the City. The Company shall begin collecting the franchise fee upon
receipt of written approval of the required tax rider tariff from the Iowa
Utilities Board.
   The amount of the franchise fee shall be shown separately on the utility
bill to each customer. The Company shall remit franchise fee receipts to the
City no more frequently than on or before the last business day of the month
following each calendar year quarter.
   The Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or
refund any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted
to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall
reimburse the company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such
data or information.
(Section 111.11 – Ord. 859 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
111.12   TERM OF FRANCHISE.  
   The term of the franchise granted by this chapter and the rights granted
there under shall continue for the period of 25 years from and after its
acceptance by the said Company, as herein provided.
111.13   ENTIRE AGREEMENT.  
   This chapter sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be superseded, modified, or otherwise amended without the approval and
acceptance of the Company. Upon acceptance by the Company, the franchise
ordinance shall supersede, abrogate and repeal the prior electric system
franchise ordinance between the Company and the City as of the date the
ordinance codified by this chapter is accepted by the Company. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in no event shall the City enact any ordinance or place any
limitations, either operationally or through the assessment of fees other than
those approved and accepted by the Company within this chapter, that create
additional burdens upon the Company, or which delay utility operations.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, offer, or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122 & 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale,
possess, or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon the terms,
conditions, limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code
of Iowa, and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty
may be imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39 & 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
   Upon receipt of an application for a liquor license, wine or beer permit,
the Clerk may forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an
investigation and submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred
in the application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine
if they conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve
an application for a license or permit for any premises that does not conform
to the applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a liquor
control license, a retail wine permit, or a retail beer permit and shall
endorse its approval or disapproval on the application, and thereafter the
application, necessary fee, and bond, if required, shall be forwarded to the
Alcoholic Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce for such
further action as is provided by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
   A person holding a liquor license or retail wine or beer permit and the
person’s agents or employees shall not do any of the following:
   1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
   2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license or permit, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on a weekday, and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. on Sunday
and 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday; however, a holder of a liquor control
license or retail wine or beer permit granted the privilege of selling
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer on Sunday may sell or dispense alcoholic
liquor, wine, or beer between the hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. of
the following Monday, and further provided that a holder of any class of liquor
control license or the holder of a class “B” beer permit may sell or dispense
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer for consumption on the premises between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on Monday when that Monday is New
Year’s Day and beer for consumption off the premises between the hours of 8:00
a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday when that Sunday is the
day before New Year’s Day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b] & 123.150)
   3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona
fide credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its
members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to
retail sales by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or
events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
   4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
   5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any
other beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
   6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
   7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
   8.   Keep on premises covered by a liquor control license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the
Alcoholic Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except
mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption.
However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the premises and are not
for immediate consumption may be consumed on the licensed premises, subject to
rules adopted by the Alcoholic Beverages Division.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
   9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
   10.   Allow any person other than the licensee, permittee, or employees of
the licensee or permittee to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic
liquor in any bottle or other container that is designed for the transporting
of such beverages, except as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
   11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[21])
120.06   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement
devices possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa.
(Said devices are allowed only in premises with a liquor control license or
beer permit, as specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
   1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical
or mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation
of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
   1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be
construed to include cigars.
   3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
   4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes, or offers for
sale for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
   5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement,
or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of
the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or
employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access
location.
   6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for
both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
   7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
must, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
   2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer must not
sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
   A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of
Revenue or on forms made available or approved by the Department and
accompanied by the required fee must be filed with the Clerk. Renewal
applications must be filed at least five days prior to the last regular meeting
of the Council in June. If a renewal application is not timely filed, and a
special Council meeting is called to act on the application, the costs of such
special meeting must be paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
   The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit is as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:   FEE:
July, August or September     $ 75.00
October, November or December $ 56.25
January, February or March    $ 37.50
April, May or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
   Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and is nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of each
year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit to the
Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within 30 days of
issuance of a permit.
121.06   REFUNDS.
   A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
   A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
   1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under
this subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period
of 14 days.
   2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
   3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
   5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22 and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
   Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by
the Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                  122.10 Time Restriction
122.02 Definitions              122.11 Revocation of License
122.03 License Required         122.12 Hearing
122.04 Application for License  122.13 Record and Determination
122.05 License Fees             122.14 Appeal
122.06 Bond Required            122.15 Effect of Revocation
122.07 License Issued           122.16 Rebates
122.08 Display of License       122.17 License Exemptions
122.09 License Not Transferable 122.18 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
 
122.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against
fraud, unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by
licensing and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
   2.   Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions, or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
   3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases, or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out
of a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03   LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting, or in the business of a
transient merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein
provided is in violation of this chapter.
122.04   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application in writing must be filed with the Police Chief for a license
under this chapter. Such application must set forth the applicant’s name,
permanent and local address, and business address if any. The application must
also set forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address,
the nature of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business,
and the length of time sought to be covered by the license. An application fee
of $25.00 must be paid at the time of filing such application to cover the cost
of investigating the facts stated therein.
122.05   LICENSE FEES.
   The following license fees must be paid prior to the issuance of any
license.
   1.   Solicitors. In addition to the application fee for each person actually
soliciting (principal or agent), a fee for the principal of $10.00 per year.
   2.   Peddlers or Transient Merchants.
      A.   For one day   $   5.00
      B.   For one week   $   10.00
      C.   For up to six months   $   20.00
      D.   For one year or major part thereof   $   25.00
122.06   BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant must provide to the Police Chief evidence that the applicant has
filed a bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the
Code of Iowa.
122.07   LICENSE ISSUED.
   If the Police Chief finds the application is completed in conformance with
the requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be
correct, and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.
122.08   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each solicitor or peddler must keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and must, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant must display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10   TIME RESTRICTION.
   All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are
in force and effect only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
122.11   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Police
Chief may revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following
reasons:
   1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in
the application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
   2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
   3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has
conducted the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare,
safety, order, or morals.
The Police Chief shall send a notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local
address, not less than 10 days before the date set for a hearing on the
possible revocation of a license. Such notice shall contain particulars of the
complaints against the licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes
allegedly violated, and the date, time and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12   HEARING.
   The Police Chief shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Police Chief may proceed to a
determination of the complaint.
122.13   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
   The Police Chief shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of
law, and shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the
Police Chief finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of
this chapter or State law.
122.14   APPEAL.
   If the Police Chief revokes or refuses to issue a license, the Police Chief
shall make a part of the record the reasons for such revocation or refusal. The
licensee, or the applicant, has a right to a hearing before the Council at its
next regular meeting. The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision
of the Police Chief by a majority vote of the Council members present and the
Police Chief must carry out the decision of the Council.
122.15   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
   Revocation of any license bars the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.16   REBATES.
   No licensee is entitled to a rebate of any part of the fee paid.
122.17   LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
   1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling
subscriptions to newspapers.
   2.   Club Members. Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs,
Boy Scout, Girl Scout, 4-H Clubs, FFA (formerly Future Farmers of America), and
similar organizations.
   3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
   4.   Students. Students representing the Beckman School System and the
Western Dubuque School District conducting projects sponsored by organizations
recognized by the school.
   5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
   6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses
or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.
122.18   CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations
operating under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to
solicit money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of
Sections 122.04 and 122.05. All such organizations are required to submit in
writing to the Police Chief the name and purpose of the cause for which such
activities are sought, names and addresses of the officers and directors of the
organization, the period during which such activities are to be carried on, and
whether any commissions, fees, or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and
the amount thereof. If the Police Chief finds that the organization is a bona
fide charity or nonprofit organization, the Police Chief shall issue, free of
charge, a license containing the above information to the applicant. In the
event the Police Chief denies the exemption, the authorized representatives of
the organization may appeal the decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.14 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 123
MOVEMENT OF STRUCTURES
 
123.01 Structure Defined 123.06 No Structure to Remain in Street
123.02 Permit Required   123.07 Injury; Repair
123.03 Application       123.08 Public Safety
123.04 Investigation     123.09 Above Ground Wires
123.05 Bond Required
 
123.01   STRUCTURE DEFINED.
   The term “structure” as used in this chapter means any house, building, or
other object which is to be moved on house movers’ trucks or skids.
123.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall move any structure upon, along, across, or over any street,
avenue, alley, highway, sidewalk, or other public ground in the City without
first having submitted an application and obtained a permit therefor as
hereinafter provided. Buildings of less than 100 square feet are exempt from
the provisions of this chapter.
123.03   APPLICATION.
   All applications for a permit as herein required must be filed in the office
of the Clerk and must be in writing and, among other things, shall state:
   1.   Name and Address. The name and address of the house mover and the house
mover’s qualifications, experience, and equipment;
   2.   The dimensions of the structure to be moved and its maximum height when
loaded.
   3.   The present location and the proposed location of the structure;
   4.   The route over which the structure is to be moved, the time when the
removal will begin, and the approximate length of time necessary to complete
the operation within the limits of the public ways;
   5.   The time when the structure will be first moved into the limits of the
public way and the length of time the structure will be within the limits;
   6.   The name and address of the owner of the structure.
123.04   INVESTIGATION.
   Upon the filing of the application, the City Administrator shall investigate
the statements contained therein. Upon completion of the investigation, the
City Administrator may issue a permit, designating the route and specifying the
time when, the manner in which and the conditions under which the structure
shall be moved, provided, however, that all conditions of this chapter have
been fully met. Upon the refusal of the City Administrator to issue a permit
when an application has been filed in the proper form, the application,
accompanied by a written statement, setting forth the reasons for such refusal,
shall be submitted by the City Administrator to the Council at its next regular
meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose, and the City
Administrator shall thereafter proceed in accordance with the instructions of
the Council.
123.05   BOND REQUIRED.
   The City Administrator, as a condition precedent to the issuance of a
permit, may require the person making the application to file a good and
sufficient bond with the City in the amount of $5,000.00 with sureties thereon
to be approved by the City Administrator, conditioned that the applicant will
pay any or all damages incurred in the moving operation which may be caused to
any property, either public or private, within the City, whether such damage or
injury is inflicted by the applicant or any agent or employees, and also
conditioned that the applicant will waive and indemnify and hold the City
harmless against all liability, judgments, costs, and expenses which may in any
way accrue against the City, in consequence of the granting of such permit, and
will in all things strictly comply with the conditions of the permit.
123.06   NO STRUCTURE TO REMAIN IN STREET.
   No structure is allowed to remain in any street, avenue, alley, or other
public place in excess of the time fixed in the permit when issued, except that
in case of an unavoidable delay and through no fault of the holder of the
permit, the City Administrator may grant such extension of time as appears
reasonable.
123.07   INJURY; REPAIR.
   Any injury done to any public facility or improvement within the limits of
the public way must be promptly repaired by the applicant to the satisfaction
of the City Administrator, and any injury or damage done to any person or any
private property shall be promptly paid, settled, and compensated for by the
applicant, and the bond provided for in Section 123.05 of this chapter shall
stand as security therefor.
123.08   PUBLIC SAFETY.
   At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or public property, the permittee must maintain
flagmen at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to
the sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when
the building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or
public property the permittee must maintain adequate warning signs or lights at
the intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind, and ahead of the
building or structure.
123.09   ABOVE GROUND WIRES.
   The holder of any permit to move a building must see that all telephone,
cable television, and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 125
SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS IN CONVENIENCE STORES
 
125.01 Definitions                  125.03 Exemptions
125.02 Surveillance Camera Required
 
125.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Consumer products” means all food which is subject to sales tax and
all food which is not subject to sales tax under Chapter 422 of the Code of
Iowa, except foods prepared for immediate consumption.
   2.   “Convenience store” means any business which sells at retail both
gasoline and more than 20 consumer products and which routinely remains open
for business 20 to 24 hours a day or between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00
a.m.
   3.   “Surveillance camera” means a video tape camera or similar video
recording device.
125.02   SURVEILLANCE CAMERA REQUIRED.
   Every convenience store shall be equipped with a functioning surveillance
camera between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of each day the store is
open for business. The surveillance camera must be positioned so as to film all
persons entering the establishment and/or all persons approaching within five
feet of the cash register. All proposed installations of surveillance cameras
must be approved in advance by the Police Department as in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter prior to actual installation. The Police Chief is
hereby authorized and directed to develop departmental rules and regulations
setting forth the minimum specifications for surveillance cameras. The
specifications shall be developed with the intent to require surveillance
cameras which are functionally capable of recording visual activities and
reproducing the same with sufficient quality to aid the Police Department in
the apprehension of lawbreakers. A 35 mm camera capable of activation will
satisfy the requirements of this section. Surveillance cameras installed prior
to the passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter will be deemed to be
in compliance with this section.
125.03   EXEMPTIONS.
A business which is required to install a surveillance camera by this chapter
may apply to the Police Chief for exemption from the provisions of this
chapter. The Police Chief may exempt a business from such requirement if the
Police Chief finds that the business has or will undertake alternate security
procedures which are substantially equal to or more effective in preventing
criminal activity and in assisting in the apprehension of the perpetrators of
crime or for protecting employees, or the Police Chief may authorize alternate
procedures on an experimental basis. The Police Chief may also authorize
temporary extensions of the installation deadline provided in this chapter when
a business demonstrates that it is temporarily unable to comply for good cause
shown.
CHAPTER 126
EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS
 
126.01 Definition                   126.06 Supervision of Blasting
126.02 Applicability of Regulations 126.07 Permit Issuance
126.03 Permit Procedure             126.08 Notice of Storage
126.04 Storage Regulations          126.09 Report of Theft or Loss
126.05 Bond and Insurance           126.10 Disposal Regulated
                                    126.11 Notice of Blasting
 
126.01   DEFINITION.
   Where used in this chapter, the word “blasting” means the act of breaking or
tearing to pieces rock or other material by the agency of gunpowder or other
explosives.
126.02   APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS.
   This chapter applies to all persons, firms, corporations, co-partnerships,
governmental agencies, except Federal agencies, and associations storing,
handling, or using explosives or blasting agents, and to the owner or lessee of
any building, premises, or equipment in or on which explosives or blasting
agents are stored, handled or used.
126.03   PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   Any person who desires to perform any blasting operation within the City
must obtain a blasting permit therefor by complying with the following
procedure:
   1.   By filing with the Council a copy of the commercial license issued by
the State Fire Marshal pursuant to Chapter 101A of the Code of Iowa; and
   2.   By filing a security bond conditioned upon the payment of all damages
resulting from the blasting operation in an amount of not less than $10,000.00.
126.04   STORAGE REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to store any explosive material in a manner
not in conformity with regulations promulgated by the State Fire Marshal.
Before applying for a permit, the applicant must read and be familiar with such
requirements. An application for a permit will be denied if, upon
investigation, it is found that storage facilities are inadequate.
126.05   BOND AND INSURANCE.
   The bond provided for in Section 126.03 must be in a form approved by the
City Attorney and with an approved surety company as surety. The Council is
authorized to require a bond or certificate of insurance in a larger amount in
cases where the Council deems the same necessary because of the hazards
involved. The Council is further authorized to accept a policy of liability
insurance, with a company authorized to do business in the State as insurer,
insuring the applicant’s liability arising out of such blasting, in lieu of or
supplementary to the bond required in Section 126.03
126.06   SUPERVISION OF BLASTING.
   The person in direct supervision of the blasting must be a competent person
who has had not less than five years’ experience in the handling and discharge
of explosives.
126.07   PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Upon compliance by the applicant with the conditions of this chapter and if
the Council finds that the person in immediate charge of the blasting is a
competent and experienced person, the Council shall issue a permit to the
applicant, which permit shall be restricted to the blasting operation described
in the application. Permits are not transferable. Permits are good only for 30
days.
126.08   NOTICE OF STORAGE.
   A permittee must notify the Fire Chief and the Police Chief when and where
explosive materials will be stored and must also notify such authorities when
storage is terminated.
126.09   REPORT OF THEFT OR LOSS.
   Any theft or loss of explosive materials, whether from a storage magazine, a
vehicle in which they are being transported, or from a site on which they are
being used, or from any other location, must immediately be reported to the
Police Department by the person authorized to possess such explosives. The
local police shall immediately transmit a report of such theft or loss of
explosive materials to the State Fire Marshal.
126.10   DISPOSAL REGULATED.
   No person shall abandon or otherwise dispose of any explosives in any manner
which might, as a result of such abandonment or disposal, create any damages or
threat of danger to life or property. Any person in possession or control of
explosives must, when the need for such explosives no longer exists, dispose of
them in accordance with regulations prescribed by the State Fire Marshal.
126.11   NOTICE OF BLASTING.
   Prior to performing any blasting operation, the permittee must give notice
as follows:
   1.   On the day prior to blasting, the permittee must attempt to contact, by
telephone, a resident of each residence and an employee of each business
located within 1,500 feet of the blast site, advising them that blasting is
expected to take place the following day or, in the event the following day is
a weekend or holiday, on the day following said weekend or holiday.
   2.   On the actual day blasting is planned, the permittee must again attempt
to contact, by telephone, a resident of each residence and an employee of each
business located within 1,500 feet of the blast site, advising them of the
anticipated time of the blast, giving as close an estimate of the time as is
reasonably possible.
   3.   The permittee must keep an up-to-date log of all telephone notices
given, showing the person making the call, the person receiving the call, and
the time of said call. The log must also show those calls made where there was
no answer or where a message was left on an answering machine.
CHAPTER 127
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES
 
127.01 Purpose                         127.08 Prohibited Employment of Minors
127.02 Definitions                     127.09 Illegal Activities on Premises
127.03 Location of Adult Entertainment 127.10 Inspection
Facilities
127.04 Exterior Display                127.11 License and Permit Fees
127.05 Viewing Area                    127.12 Adult Entertainment Facilities
                                       License
127.06 Adult News Racks                127.13 Adult Entertainment Employee
                                       Permit
127.07 Display of License and Permit
 
127.01   PURPOSE.
   It is recognized that adult entertainment facilities have certain
objectionable side effects which render these facilities incompatible with
residential and family-oriented uses, when the adult facilities are located
directly adjacent to such uses. This chapter seeks to ensure that residential
and family-oriented uses and adult entertainment facilities will be located in
separate and compatible locations.
127.02   DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   1.   “Adult amusement or entertainment” means a live performance of
amusement or entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
acts or material depicting, describing, or relating to sex acts or specified
anatomical areas.
   2.   “Adult entertainment facilities” includes but is not limited to the
following:
      A.   Adult bookstore means an establishment having as the primary portion
of its stock in trade, books, magazines, and other periodicals which are
substantially devoted to the depiction of specified sexual activities and
specified anatomical areas.
      B.   Adult business means any business or establishment where a specified
sexual activity or specified anatomical area is displayed.
      C.   Adult motel means a motel or similar establishment offering public
accommodations for any form of consideration which provides patrons with
closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are characterized
by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
      D.   Adult movie theatre means any theatre, arcade, or similar
establishment where an enclosed building or open-air facility is used for
presenting material in the form of motion picture film, videotape, or similar
means which is substantially devoted to the depiction of specified sexual
activities and specified anatomical areas, for observation by persons therein.
      E.   Adult news rack means any coin-operated machine or device which
dispenses material substantially devoted to the depiction of specified sexual
activities and specified anatomical areas.
      F.   Adult nightclub means any club, cabaret, nightclub, bar, restaurant,
or similar establishment where an enclosed building at which adult amusement or
entertainment is provided or performed.
      G.   Adult entertainment cabaret means a public or private establishment
that is licensed to serve food and/or alcoholic beverages, at which adult
amusement or entertainment is provided or performed.
      H.   Body shop or model studio means any public or private establishment
which describes itself as a body shop or model studio; or where, for any form
of consideration or gratuity, figure models who display specified anatomical
areas are provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed, or similarly depicted by persons paying such consideration or
gratuity, or where for any form of consideration or gratuity, nude and seminude
dancing, readings, counseling sessions, body painting, and other activities
that present materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are provided for observation by or communication to persons
paying such consideration or gratuity.
   3.   “Specified anatomical area” means less than completely and opaquely
covered human genitalia, mature human buttocks, and a mature human breast below
a point immediately above the top of the areola; and human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   4.   “Specified sexual activities” means any of the following conditions:
      A.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      B.   Acts or representations of acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse or sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, or flagellation.
      C.   Fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, or female breast.
      D.   Minors engaged in a prohibited sexual act or simulation of a
prohibited sexual act.
      E.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities
set forth in Paragraphs A through D of this subsection.
(Section 127.02 – Ord. 855 – Oct. 23 Supp.)
127.03   LOCATION OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES.
   1.   Prohibited Locations. No person, whether as principal or agent, clerk
or employee, either alone or for any other person, or as an officer of any
corporation, or otherwise, shall place, maintain, own, or operate any Adult
Entertainment Facilities in the following locations:
      A.   In any residential area of the City, including upon any sidewalk
abutting upon such residential area.
      B.   Within 2,000 feet of any residentially zoned or used property, or
any property designated on the City’s Comprehensive Plan as residentially
oriented.
      C.   Within 2,000 feet of any parcel of real property upon which is
located any of the following facilities:
         (1)   An elementary school, junior high, or senior high school.
         (2)   A church, which conducts religious programs.
         (3)   Park or recreational facilities operated and improved by the
City, County, County Conservation Board, or State.
         (4)   Federal, State, County, City, or special district governmental
offices.
         (5)   Supermarket or convenience market primarily engaged in the sale
of food or fuel.
         (6)   Restaurant, fast-food or food establishment catering to family
trade.
      D.   Within 2,000 feet of any other adult entertainment facility, as
defined herein. For the purpose of this section, “adult news rack” means a
single coin-operated device and not a machine with a double or triple
dispensing capacity.
   2.   Measurement of Distance. The distance between any two adult
entertainment facilities shall be measured in a straight line, without regard
to intervening structures, from the closest exterior structural wall of each
business. The distance between any adult entertainment facilities and any
religious institution, school or public park, government office, supermarket,
restaurant, or any property designated for residential use or used for
residential purposes shall be measured in a straight line, without regard for
intervening structures, from the closest property line of the religious
institution, school, public park, government office, supermarket, restaurant,
or property designated for residential use or used for residential purposes.
   3.   Permitted Areas. Adult Entertainment Facilities in the City of
Dyersville must be a permitted use in accordance with the provisions of the
Zoning Code.
127.04   EXTERIOR DISPLAY.  
   No adult entertainment facility shall be conducted in any manner that
permits the observation of any material depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas by display,
decoration, sign, show window, or other opening from any public way or from any
property not licensed as an adult entertainment facility. Furthermore, all on-
site signage shall conform to all restrictions defined in this Code of
Ordinances.
127.05   VIEWING AREA.
   1.   It is unlawful to maintain, operate, or manage or permit to be
maintained, operated, or managed any adult theatre or arcade in which the
viewing areas are not viewable from a continuous main aisle or are obscured by
curtain, door, wall, or other enclosure. For the purpose of this section,
“viewing area” means the area where the patron or customer would ordinarily be
positioned while watching the performance, picture show, or film.
   2.   It is unlawful for more than one person at a time to occupy any
individually partitioned viewing area or booth.
   3.   It is unlawful to create, maintain, or permit to be maintained any
holes or other openings between any two booths or individual viewing areas for
the purpose of providing viewing or physical access between the booth or
individual viewing areas.
   4.   The opening to the viewing area shall be from the main aisle.
127.06   ADULT NEWS RACKS.
   1.   Identification of News Racks. The owners of adult news racks must have
their names, addresses, and telephone numbers clearly visible on each news rack
located within the City. If the identification is not clearly visible, that
will be grounds for immediate impoundment of the news rack by the City.
   2.   Nonconforming Uses. The provisions of this Code of Ordinances dealing
with nonconforming uses are not applicable to the location of adult news racks
existing on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but
thereafter the location of adult news racks shall be subject to the provisions
of this Code of Ordinances.
   3.   Impoundment. Any Police Officer or Enforcement Officer of the City may
impound an adult news rack found in violation of this chapter after the
following actions:
      A.   A notice of violation has been affixed to the adult news rack
stating the section of this chapter which has been violated and stating that
the adult news rack will be impounded if the violation is not abated within
seven days.
      B.   A notice of violation has been sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the owner of the adult news rack as identified on the
news rack, if readable, stating the section of this chapter which has been
violated, and stating that the adult news rack will be impounded if the
violation in not abated within seven days.
      C.   The violation has not been abated within seven days after the
posting of the notice of violation or the mailing of the certified letter,
whichever occurs later.
      D.   The Police Department or other Enforcement Officer has presented to
any magistrate affidavits or other evidence sufficient to show prima facie
violation of the chapter.
      E.   A magistrate has issued a written order permitting the impounding of
the adult news rack pursuant to this chapter.
   4.   Filing of Complaint. Whenever an adult news rack is impounded, a
complaint for violation of Section 127.03 must be filed within 14 days of the
impounding. If a final appealable decision in such action is not rendered
within 60 days after the date of filing this action, the complaint will be
dismissed; provided, however, no complaint will be dismissed because a final
appealable decision was not rendered within 60 days of the filing of the action
if the defendant named herein is responsible for extending the judicial
determination beyond the allowable time.
   5.   Redemption after Impoundment. The person who provides sufficient proof
of ownership of such adult news rack may have such news rack, together with all
moneys, if any, impounded, returned immediately after the filing of the
complaint for violation of Section 127.03 upon application to the Police
Department or other Enforcement Officer. The person who provides sufficient
proof of ownership of such adult news rack may have the contents of such news
rack returned upon the date that a final appealable decision in such action is
rendered or upon the date the action is dismissed, upon application to the
Police Department or the Enforcement Officer.
   6.   Minimal Distance Violations. It is recognized that adult news racks may
be jostled or inadvertently moved minor distance by third persons with a
resulting violation of the provisions of Section 127.03. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, such minimal distance violation, not exceeding
five feet, will not constitute a violation of this chapter, and the City’s
Police Department or other Enforcement Officer shall notify the owner of the
adult news rack by certified, return receipt requested, mail of the minimal
distance requirements. Notwithstanding the provisions of the section, all adult
news racks must comply with the encroachment permit provisions of the Code of
Ordinances.
127.07   DISPLAY OF LICENSE AND PERMIT.
   1.   Every licensee must display a valid license in a conspicuous place
within the adult entertainment facility so that the same may be readily seen by
persons entering the premises.
   2.   All persons required under this chapter to obtain an adult
entertainment employee permit pursuant to this chapter must display on request
during the hours of operation of such business and identification card provided
by the City police department containing the legal name and date of birth of
the employee.
127.08   PROHIBITED EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS.  
   It is unlawful for any adult use licensee or his/her manager or employee to
employ in any capacity within the adult entertainment facility any person who
is not at least 21 years of age.
127.09   ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES ON PREMISES.  
No licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee shall engage in any activity or conduct or permit any
other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the licensed
premises which is prohibited by any ordinance of the City or law of the State
or the United States.
127.10   INSPECTION.
   1.   An applicant or licensee shall permit Mayor, the City Administrator,
the police department, fire department or any other designated agents to
inspect the premises of the adult entertainment facility for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with the law at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   2.   A person who operates an adult entertainment facility or his/her agent
or employee violates this chapter if he/she refuses to permit such lawful
inspection of the premises at any time it is occupied or open for business.
127.11   LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES.
   1.   Adult Entertainment Facility License. The license fee for an adult
entertainment facility establishment shall be $1,500.00 per year, or any part
thereof.
   2.   Employee Permit. The permit fee for any persons purporting to engage in
the providing of goods or services to the public in connection with the adult
entertainment facility is $250.00 per year, or any part thereof.
   3.   Payment of Fees; Refunds. All fees are payable to the City Clerk’s
office upon application and are nonrefundable.
127.12   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES LICENSE.
   1.   Adult Entertainment Facility License Required. It is unlawful for any
person to engage in, conduct or carry on, or to permit to be engaged in,
conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises in the City, the operation of
an adult entertainment facility, without first having obtained a separate
license from the City.
   2.   Application for an Adult Entertainment Facility License. Any person
desiring a license to operate an adult entertainment facility must file a
written application with the City Clerk’s office on a form to be furnished by
the City Clerk’s office. The applicant must accompany the application with a
tender of the correct license fee, as provided in Section 127.11 and must, in
addition, furnish the following personal information concerning the manager or
other person principally in charge of the operation of the business:
      A.   Name, complete residence address, and residence telephone number,
including area code.
      B.   Written proof of age consisting of a birth certificate.
      C.   Height, weight, and color of hair and color of hair and eyes.
      D.   Authorization for the City, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application regarding the applicant’s request for a license.
      E.   The applicant must keep and maintain liability insurance in an
amount of at least $1,000,000.00 and must provide evidence of such insurance
upon application for or renewal of each license.
      F.   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury, that
the information contained in the application is true and correct, with such
declaration being duly dated and signed at the City Clerk’s office.
   3.   Approval of Application.
      A.   Upon receiving the application for an adult entertainment facility
license, the Mayor and/or designated agent shall preliminarily review the
application and within 14 days refer the copies of such application to the City
Administrator, the police department, fire department, zoning department, or
any other designated agents.
      B.   These officials and/or designated agents shall within 30 days
inspect the premises proposed to be operated as an adult entertainment facility
or, in case of the police department, conduct a background investigation of the
applicant and all such officials shall make recommendations to the Mayor and/or
designated agent concerning the premises’ and the applicant’s compliance with
the matters coming within the jurisdiction of the aforesaid officials and/or
designated agents.
      C.   Within ten days of receiving the recommendation of the aforesaid
officials and/or designated agents, the Mayor and/or designated agent will
render his/her approval or denial of the application to the City Council. The
City Council must give final approval prior to any issuance or denial of
license.
   4.   Issuance or Denial of Adult Entertainment Facility License. The Mayor
and/or designated agent shall issue an adult entertainment license within 90
days of receipt of the application, unless he/she finds the following:
      A.   The correct license fee has not been tendered to the City and, in
the case of a check or bank draft, honored with payment upon presentation.
      B.   The operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted would not
comply with all applicable laws, including, but not limited to, the City’s
zoning, building, and health regulations.
      C.   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of fact in the application for the permit or in any
document required by the City in connection therewith.
      D.   The applicant has operated an adult entertainment facility and has
had a license denied, revoked, or suspended for any of the causes set forth in
Paragraphs A through C of this subsection by the City or any other State or
local agency.
      E.   The applicant principally in charge of the operation of the business
is under 21 years of age.
      F.   The applicant is a person who is not of good moral character and
reputation in the community in which he/she resides.
      G.   The applicant has been convicted of any the following offenses,
unless upon investigation the Mayor and/or designated agent finds that such
convictions occurred at least 10 years prior to the date of the application,
that the applicant has had no subsequent convictions, and has shown evidence of
rehabilitation sufficient to warrant the public trust:
         (1)   A felony under federal laws or the laws of this or any other
state.
         (2)   Prostitution, soliciting for a prostitute, pandering, keeping a
place of prostitution, patronizing a prostitute, pimping, obscenity, selling
harmful material, or having a tie in the sale of obscene publications to
distributors, under the laws of this state or equivalent laws or codes of the
United States or any other state or city, or any other crime or misdemeanor
opposed to decency and morality.
      H.   The City Council has denied the license.
   5.   License Administration.
      A.   Each license shall be issued for one year beginning January 1 and
said license will expire on December 31 after it was issued and may be renewed
only by making application as provided in this chapter. Application for renewal
must be made to the City Clerk at least 30 days before the expiration date and
when made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the
license will not be affected.
      B.   If the Mayor and/or designated agent deny renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
If, subsequent to denial, the Mayor and/or designated agent find that the basis
for denial of the license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be
granted a license.
      C.   The Mayor and/or designated agent may suspend a license for a period
not to exceed 90 days if, after a hearing pursuant to Paragraph K of this
subsection, it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee:
         (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
chapter;
         (2)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult entertainment
facility premises as authorized by this chapter; and/or
         (3)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult
entertainment facility premises.
      D.   If the licensee or an employee of the licensee has been found guilty
in a court of law or under the City’s code hearing procedures, of a violation
of this chapter, no hearing is necessary prior to suspension of the license
under this subsection.
      E.   The Mayor and/or designated agent shall revoke a license without a
hearing provided by Paragraph K hereof, if a cause of suspension as provided in
this subsection occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding
12 months, or if the licensee is convicted of any specified criminal activity.
      F.   The Mayor and/or designated agent shall revoke a license if it
determines, after such a hearing, that a licensee or an employee of a licensee:
         (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted
during the application process;
         (2)   Has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of a controlled
substance on the premises;
         (3)   Has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
         (4)   Knowingly operated the adult use during a period of time when
the licensee’s license was suspended;
         (5)   Has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy,
oral copulation, masturbation, or other sex act to occur in or on the licensee
premises;
         (6)   Is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state for any
taxes or fees past due;
         (7)   Has knowingly or intentionally facilitated another in the
commission of the offense of public indecency.
      G.   If the Mayor and/or designated agent revoke a license, the
revocation will continue for one year and the licensee will not be issued an
adult entertainment facility license for one year from the date the revocation
became effective. If subsequent to revocation, the Mayor and/or designated
agent find that the factual basis for the revocation did not occur, the
applicant may be granted a license.
      H.   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or a revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such action in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
      I.   Transfer of License. A licensee cannot transfer his/her license to
another nor can a licensee operate an adult entertainment facility under the
authority of a license at any place other than the address on the license.
      J.   Business Records. The Mayor and/or designated agent may direct an
adult entertainment facility establishment to file a verified report with the
City showing the licensee’s gross receipts and amounts paid to employees during
the preceding calendar year. In addition, all adult entertainment facilities
must maintain and retain for a period of five years the names, addresses, and
ages of all persons employed, including independent contractors, by the
licensee.
      K.   Hearing. Upon a written allegation that licensee has violated any
provision of this chapter, the licensed premises must immediately suspend all
business pending a hearing conducted by the Mayor and/or designated agent upon
seven days’ notice to the licensee; provided, however, that no hearing shall
occur later than 15 days from the date of suspension of business operations.
   6.   Adult Entertainment Facilities - Restrictions. All dancing and other
performances shall occur on a stage intended for that purpose which is separate
and apart from the general public and unobstructed from all horizontal views
within the building. No dancing or other performances shall occur closer than
three feet to any patron. In addition, no performer shall fondle, caress or
otherwise touch any patron and no patron shall fondle, caress or otherwise
touch any performer. No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any
performer and no performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
Gratuities may be indirectly given to performers by placing the gratuity on the
stage.
   7.   Hours of Operation. No adult entertainment facility shall be open for
business between 1:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m., seven days per week.
127.13   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT EMPLOYEE PERMIT.
   1.   Required; Application; Issuance; Term.
      A.   Any person, including but not limited to a licensee and a performer,
who actually engages in the providing of goods or services to the public in
connection with the adult entertainment facility must file an application for
an adult entertainment employee permit with the police department upon a form
provided by the police department and shall tender the correct permit fee, as
provided in Section 127.11 to the City Clerk who shall issue a receipt which
shall be attached to the application filed with the police department.
      B.   The application for an adult entertainment employee permit must
contain substantially the same information as the application for an adult
entertainment facility license under Section
127.12 of this chapter, except for personal information concerning the manager
or other person principally in charge of the operation of the business and the
keeping and maintenance of liability insurance.
      C.   The Mayor, City Administrator, Police Chief, and/or designated
agents may issue an adult entertainment employee permit within 14 days
following the application, unless he/she finds that the applicant would not
have been eligible for an adult entertainment permit under the terms of Section
127.12(4) of this chapter.
      D.   Every adult entertainment employee permit issued pursuant to this
section will terminate at the expiration of one year from the date of its
issuance and/or from the date the employee is no longer employed with the adult
entertainment facility licensee, whichever comes first unless sooner revoked.
   2.   Revocation or Suspension.
      A.   Any adult entertainment employee permit may be revoked or suspended
by the Mayor and/or designated agent if the Mayor and/or designated agent shall
find the following:
         (1)   That the permittee has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter regulating adult entertainment facilities.
         (2)   The permittee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information or withheld relevant information on any application for any license
or permit required by this chapter or knowingly caused or suffered another to
furnish or withhold such information on his/her behalf.
      B.   Any adult entertainment employee permit shall be revoked by the
Mayor and/or designated agent if the Mayor and/or designated agent shall find
that the permittee has committed any of the offenses listed in Section 127.12
(4) of this chapter.
      C.   The Mayor and/or designated agent in revoking or suspending an adult
entertainment employee permit shall give the permit holder written notice
specifying the grounds therefor. Such person may within 10 days of such
revocation or suspension file a written request with the Mayor and/or
designated agent for a public hearing before the Mayor and/or designated agent
at which time the permittee may present evidence bearing upon the question.
      D.   The Mayor and/or designated agent may in his/her discretion conduct
such hearing concurrently with a hearing pursuant to Section 127.12(5) of this
chapter for the adult entertainment facility license, unless it appears that
such a joint hearing would prejudice the rights of the licensee or the
permittee involved.
   3.   Licensee’s Duty to Ensure Employees Have Permits. It is the
responsibility of the licensee for the adult entertainment facility or the
employer of any persons purporting to engage in the providing of goods or
services to the public in connection with the adult entertainment facility to
ensure that each such person has first obtained a valid adult entertainment
employee permit pursuant to this chapter.
   4.   Transfer of Permit. A permittee shall not transfer his/her permit to
another nor shall a permittee operate under the authority of a permit at any
place other than the address on the application.
   5.   Employee Permit Restrictions. All permittees must be fully clothed
while off the dance floor and/or stage and while amongst the patrons.
Furthermore, all permittees must wear no less than G-strings and pasties while
on the dance floor and/or on the stage. Pasties are not to be see through.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.09 Street, Curb, or Driveway Connection
                                  Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.04 Playing In                 135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling on Barricaded    135.12 Dumping of Snow
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.07 Washing Vehicles
 
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
   It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy, or
carry away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard, or other
article or things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed
thereupon for the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places
in said street or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or
alley in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass, or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal, or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
   It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
   It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street
or alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed
thereon by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer, or
member of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
   It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale, or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley
for the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible
material in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   STREET, CURB, OR DRIVEWAY CONNECTION EXCAVATIONS.
   No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking,
alley, curb or driveway connection except in accordance with the following:
   1.   No excavation shall be commenced without first obtaining a permit. A
written application for such permit must be filed with the City and must
contain the following:
      A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
      B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is
to be made;
      C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
      D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
   2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner
that will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street.
   3.   Barricades, Fencing, and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing, and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City must be placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing, or warning lights must be paid to the
City by the permit holder/property owner.
   4.   Bond Required. The applicant must post with the City a penal bond in
the minimum sum of $1,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue
such bonds in the State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for
any damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of administration of this section. In lieu
of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $1,000.00 may be filed with the City.
   5.   Insurance Required. Each applicant must also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
      A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
      B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
   6.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work must be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
   7.   Inspection. All work is subject to inspection by the City. Backfill
shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved street or
alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and approved by the
City. The permit holder/property owner must provide the City with notice at
least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is desired.
   8.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder/property owner.
   9.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation will be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The permit
holder and owner must indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
   10.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation must contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
   11.   Permit Fee. A permit fee of $5.00 is payable at the time of filing the
application with the City. A separate permit is required for each excavation.
   12.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and
insurance certificate, and payment of any required fees, a permit shall be
issued.
   13.   Permit Exemption. Utility companies are exempt from the permit
application requirement of this section. They must, however, comply with all
other pertinent provisions.
   14.   Emergency Action. In the event of an emergency situation which
immediately endangers the property, life, health, or safety of any individual,
the person, without first applying for and obtaining an excavation permit under
this chapter, must immediately take proper emergency measures to cure or remedy
the dangerous conditions for the protection of property, life, health, and
safety of individuals. However, such person must apply for an excavation permit
not later than the end of the next succeeding day during which the Clerk’s
office is open for business, and shall not proceed with permanent repairs
without first obtaining an excavation permit under this chapter.
135.10   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The abutting property owner must maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and must keep such
area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards. In
the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner is not required to remove diseased trees or dead wood
on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but is
not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up litter
and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by
failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
   If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be
thrown, pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the business district it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation must be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations must be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
   The property owner must, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                          136.10 Repairing Defective Sidewalks
136.02 Definitions                      136.11 Notice of Inability to Repair or
                                        Barricade
136.03 Standard Sidewalk Specifications 136.12 Encroaching Steps
136.04 Permits for Construction or      136.13 Openings and Enclosures
Removal
136.05 Failure to Obtain Permit;        136.14 Debris on Sidewalks
Remedies
136.06 Inspection and Approval          136.15 Removal of Snow, Ice, and
                                        Accumulations
136.07 Barricades and Warning Lights    136.16 Notice of Assessment for Repair
                                        or Cleaning Costs
136.08 Interference with Sidewalk       136.17 Hearing and Assessment
Improvements
136.09 Ordering Sidewalk Improvements   136.18 Duty of Property Owner to
                                        Maintain
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Defective sidewalk” means any public sidewalk exhibiting one or more
of the following characteristics:
      A.   Vertical separations equal to three-fourths inch or more.
      B.   Horizontal separations equal to three-fourths inch or more.
      C.   Holes or depressions equal to three-fourths inch or more and at
least four inches in diameter.
      D.   Spalling over 50 percent of the surface of a single square of the
sidewalk with one or more depressions equal to one-half inch or more.
      E.   Spalling over less than 50 percent of a single square of the
sidewalk with one or more depressions equal to three-fourths inch or more.
      F.   A single square of sidewalk cracked in such a manner that no part
thereof has a piece greater than one square foot.
      G.   A sidewalk with any part thereof missing to the full depth.
      H.   A change from the design or construction grade equal to or greater
than three-fourths inch per foot.
   2.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
   3.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal, of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling,
or depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
136.03   STANDARD SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   The City Administrator shall prepare complete plans and specifications for
the construction, reconstruction, and repair of sidewalks and driveway
crossings in the sidewalk which, upon approval of the Council, shall be kept on
file in the office of the Clerk. The specifications shall include descriptions
and location of barricades and warning lights. All sidewalk improvements in
public property, whether performed by the owner of the abutting property or by
the City, must be performed under the supervision and inspection of the City
Administrator, and in accordance with the plans and specifications adopted in
accordance with this chapter.
136.04   PERMITS FOR CONSTRUCTION OR REMOVAL.
   No person shall make any sidewalk improvements unless such person obtains a
permit from the City Administrator. The permit shall state that the person will
comply with this Code of Ordinances and with the specifications for sidewalks
adopted by the City. The permit also shall state that the work will be done
under the direction and approval of the City Administrator. All such permits
shall be issued without charge and a copy thereof, with the application, shall
be filed and preserved in the office of the City Administrator. The permit
shall state when the work is to be commenced and when the work is to be
completed. The time of completion for the sidewalk improvements may be extended
by the City Administrator. All permits for sidewalk improvements not ordered by
resolution of the Council shall be issued in compliance with this chapter. The
City Administrator may withhold the issuance of any permit for any sidewalk
improvements for a sufficient period to determine the necessity for the
proposed improvements or when weather conditions will adversely affect the
sidewalk improvements.
136.05   FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT; REMEDIES.
   Whenever any sidewalk improvements are made that do not conform to the
provisions of this chapter and with the specifications, or when any sidewalk
improvements are made without a permit, the City Administrator shall serve
notice to obtain a permit upon the property owner and upon the contractor doing
the work. If the sidewalk is in the course of construction, the notice shall
order the work to stop until a permit is obtained and the work is corrected to
comply with the specifications. If the sidewalk work has been completed, the
owner must obtain a permit immediately and perform any needed corrections
within five days after receipt of the permit. If the owner fails to comply with
this notice, the City Administrator shall have the work completed and the costs
assessed to the property owner.
136.06   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   Upon final completion, the City Administrator shall inspect the work and may
order corrections if the work does not meet specifications. When the work does
not meet all requirements of this chapter, the specifications, and the permit,
the City Administrator shall indicate this on both copies of the permit.
136.07   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue,
highway, passageway, or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when
any sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.08   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
   No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar, or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove, or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.09   ORDERING SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Administrator may order the reconstruction, repair or replacement
of permanent sidewalks upon any street or court in the City. Notice of this
order shall be sent to the owner by certified mail. The notice shall include
the fact that the owner may request a hearing by the Council within 15 days of
receipt of the notice.
136.10   REPAIRING DEFECTIVE SIDEWALKS.
   It is the duty of the abutting property owner at any time, or upon receipt
of 30 days’ notice from the City, to repair, replace, or reconstruct all broken
or defective sidewalks in the street right-of-way abutting his or her property.
If, after the expiration of the 30 days as provided in the notice, the required
work has not been done or is not in the process of completion, the City
Administrator shall proceed to repair, replace, or reconstruct the sidewalk.
Upon completion of the work, the City Administrator shall submit to the Council
an itemized and verified statement of expenditures for material and labor, and
the legal description of the property abutting the sidewalk on which work has
been performed. These costs shall be assessed to the property as taxes.
136.11   NOTICE OF INABILITY TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
   It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk or of the
contractor or agent of the owner to notify the City immediately in the event
the owner is unable to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect warnings and barricades as required by this chapter.
136.12   ENCROACHING STEPS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.13   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
   It is unlawful for a person to:
   1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
   2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on
any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the
public.
   3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings
on or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.14   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.15   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
   The abutting property owner must remove snow, ice, and accumulations
promptly from sidewalks. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or
accumulations within a reasonable time, the City Administrator may have the
natural accumulations of snow or ice removed without notice to the property
owner. The City Administrator shall give the Council an itemized and verified
statement of the costs and a legal description of the property. The costs shall
be assessed again the property as taxes. The abutting property owner may be
liable for damages caused by failure to remove snow, ice, and accumulations
promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b & e])
136.16   NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT FOR REPAIR OR CLEANING COSTS.
   When the City Administrator submits a bill for sidewalk improvements or for
removal of accumulations as provided in this chapter, the Clerk shall send a
notice of such facts to the owner of the abutting property. The notice may be
given either by personal service or by certified mail to the last known address
of the owner. The notice shall contain a statement of the work performed, the
cost of the work that is being assessed, a description of the property
affected, and the fact that the person may pay the amount assessed by a certain
date without interest or penalty. The notice also shall indicate that the
person may object to such assessment and give the place and time at which
Council will hear such objections. The time set for hearing shall be at least
15 days after the service or mailing of the notice.
136.17   HEARING AND ASSESSMENT.
   At the time and place designated in the notice, the Council shall consider
all objections to the assessment, correct all errors or omissions, and adopt a
corrected list as to the amounts to be assessed against the property. Thirty
days after the Council’s decision, the Clerk shall certify any unpaid amounts
to the County Treasurer.
136.18   DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER TO MAINTAIN.
   The abutting property owner must maintain the area from the back of the curb
to the right-of-way line, and must keep such area in a safe condition free from
defects, debris, nuisances, obstructions, or any other hazard. The abutting
property owner is liable for damages caused by failure to maintain such area.
The abutting property owner must maintain such area in a safe condition, in a
state of good repair, and free from defects. The abutting property owner is
liable for damages caused by failure to maintain such area.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
   When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of
the City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public
grounds shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission
for its study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council.
The Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
   The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the
time at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
   No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
   1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
   2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
   The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental
body for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] & 364.7[3])
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED  ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
471
501           9-19-83
503           10-17-83
505           11-7-83
507           1-3-84
520           7-1-85
521           7-15-85
522           10-21-85
540           4-18-88
541           4-18-88
545           6-6-88
547           6-6-88
548           10-17-88
549           11-7-88
566           1-15-90
584           3-4-91
605           11-2-92
648           11-18-96
665           3-15-99
673           12-20-99
676           6-5-00
678           10-2-00
681           12-4-00
754           8-31-09
781           12-16-13
825           4-15-19
826           4-15-19
827           4-15-19
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Established Grades 138.02 Record Maintained
 
138.01   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
   The grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.02   RECORD MAINTAINED.
   The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
 
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
396
414
454
598
666           4-5-99
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
   New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.
   2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred
to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
   The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
   Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor, and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
   Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section 139.04 of the
Code of Ordinances of Dyersville, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
   If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES
 
140.01 Exercise of Police Power 140.04 Unlawful Use of Controlled Access
                                Facility
140.02 Definition               140.05 Parking Restricted
140.03 Access Controls Imposed
 
140.01   EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
   This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City
under Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and for the promotion of the general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1)
140.02   DEFINITION.
   The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street especially
designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of
abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled
right or easement of access, light, air, or view by reason of the fact that
their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for any other
reason.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2)
140.03   ACCESS CONTROLS IMPOSED.
   There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities on
Primary Road No. 136, within the City, described as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3)
On present route of Iowa Highway No. 136 from the north corporation line
Station 41+39 to the south corporation line Station 783+07
regulating access to and from abutting properties along said highway all in
accordance with the plans for such improvement identified as Project No. P-1111
and Project No. FN-378, on file in the office of the Clerk, except that this
chapter does not apply to existing facilities.
140.04   UNLAWFUL USE OF CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITY.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3 and 321.366)
   1.   Cross Dividing Line. Drive a vehicle over, upon, or across any curb,
central dividing section, or other separation or dividing line on such
controlled access facilities.
   2.   Turns. Make a left turn or a semicircular or U-turn except through an
opening provided for that purpose in the dividing curb section, separation, or
line.
   3.   Use of Lanes. Drive any vehicle except in the proper lane provided for
that purpose and in the proper direction and to the right of the central
dividing curb, separation, section, or line.
   4.   Enter Facility. Drive any vehicle into the controlled access facility
from a local service road except through an opening provided for that purpose
in the dividing curb or dividing section or dividing line that separates such
service road from the controlled access facility property.
140.05   PARKING RESTRICTED.
   It is unlawful to permit any parking on Iowa Highway No. 136 within the City
limits and for a distance of 35 feet back of sidewalk line of intersecting
street approaches.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01 Purpose                                          145.05 Appeal
145.02 Definitions                                      145.06 Posting of Signs
145.03 Procedure and Rules                              145.07 Right to Abate
145.04 Service of Notice; Orders of Enforcement Officer 145.08 Costs
 
145.01   PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the provisions of this chapter to provide a just,
equitable, and practicable method, whereby buildings and structures may be
required to be repaired, removed, vacated, or demolished when the buildings or
structures, from any cause, endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property,
safety, or welfare of the general public or the occupants of the buildings. The
provisions of this chapter apply to all dangerous buildings, as defined in this
chapter, which are in existence or which may be constructed in the City. All
buildings or structures that are required to be repaired under the provisions
of this chapter are subject to the provisions of the Iowa State Building Code
Bureau Adopted Codes.
145.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, “dangerous building” means any building or
structure that has any or all of the following conditions or defects, provided
that such conditions or defects exist to the extent that the life, health,
property, or safety of the public or the occupants of the building or structure
are endangered whenever:
   1.   Any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely to fail or to
become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons or
damage property.
   2.   Any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or settled to such an
extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less resistance
to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction.
   3.   The building or structure or any portion thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building or portion thereof; the deterioration, decay, or
inadequacy of its foundations beyond repair; or any other cause, is likely to
partially or completely collapse.
   4.   For any reason the building or structure or any portion thereof is
manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
   5.   The exterior walls or other vertical structural members list, lean, or
buckle more than two degrees or to an extent that upon inspection it is
determined that the exterior walls or other vertical structural members are
beyond repair or create an unsafe condition.
   6.   The building or structure or any portion thereof has been so damaged by
fire, wind, earthquake, flood, or any other cause, or has become so dilapidated
or deteriorated as to become an attractive nuisance; to become a harbor for
vagrants, criminals, or immoral persons; to enable persons to resort thereto
for the purpose of committing unlawful or immoral acts; or to create a haven
for rodents, snakes, and/or other vermin.
   7.   A building or structure or portion thereof, used or intended to be used
for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance; dilapidation; decay;
damage; faulty construction or arrangement; inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities; or otherwise is determined by a health officer or
enforcement officer to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a
condition that it is likely to cause sickness or disease.
   8.   Any building or structure or portion thereof, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, heating apparatus, or any other cause, is determined by the fire
marshal, fire chief, or fire chief’s agent to be a fire hazard.
   9.   Any portion of a building or structure remains on a site after the
demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or any building or
structure is abandoned so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an
attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
   10.   Any door, aisle, passageway, corridor, stairway, or other means of
egress is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise unsafe so it would not
provide safe and adequate means of egress in case of fire or panic.
   11.   Any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood,
or by any other cause, to an extent that the structural strength or stability
thereof is materially less than it was before the catastrophe.
   12.   Any building, structure, or portion thereof is in violation of Iowa
State Building Code Bureau Adopted Codes so as to constitute such building,
structure, or portion thereof an unsafe condition.
   13.   Any building or structure is in a condition as to constitute a public
nuisance or hazard.
145.03   PROCEDURE AND RULES.
   1.   The City Administrator shall be the enforcement officer and is hereby
authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   2.   The enforcement officer is authorized to make such inspections and take
such actions as may be required to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   3.   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the enforcement officer has reasonable
cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon unsafe, dangerous,
or hazardous conditions, the enforcement officer, upon presentation of proper
credentials to the property owner and/or occupant, may enter such building or
premises at all reasonable times to inspect the building or premises or perform
any duty imposed upon the enforcement officer by this Code of Ordinances.
Enforcement officer may apply for an administrative search warrant to the Iowa
District Court for Dubuque or Delaware County, pursuant to Code of Iowa Section
808.14. No owner or occupant or any other person having charge, care, or
control of any building or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation
of a search warrant, to promptly permit entry therein by the enforcement
officer for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
Any person violating this section is guilty of a municipal infraction. All
buildings, structures, or portions thereof which are determined after
inspection by the enforcement officer be dangerous as defined in this chapter
are declared to be public nuisances and must be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition, or removal.
   4.   The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every
building or structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and,
if such is found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the
enforcement officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure
written notice stating the defects thereof and ordering the abatement of such
defects (Notice of Dangerous Building and Order to Abate). This notice may
require the owner or person in charge of the building or premises, within a
reasonable time as the circumstances require, as determined by the enforcement
officer in his or her discretion, to commence the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within the time provided in the
notice. If necessary, such notice shall also require the building, structure,
or portion thereof to be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the
required repairs and/or improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by
the enforcement officer. Said notice shall also advise the property owner of
the right to request a hearing before the City Council by filing a written
request for hearing within 10 days of the service of the notice and that
failure to appeal will constitute a waiver of all rights to an administrative
hearing and determination of the matter.
(Iowa Code Sec. 364.12[3c])
   5.   In an emergency, the City may abate a dangerous building without prior
notice and assess the costs as provided in Section 145.08 after notice to the
property owner and hearing.
(Iowa Code Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.04   SERVICE OF NOTICE; ORDERS OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The notice in Section 145.03 shall be served by certified mail or personal
delivery to the property owner as shown by the records of the County Auditor.
Nothing in this section prohibits the use of any other manner of service
allowable under the Iowa Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Iowa Code Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.05   APPEAL.
   Any person entitled to service under Section 145.03 may appeal from any
notice and order or any action of the enforcement officer under this chapter by
filing a notice of appeal at the office of the City Clerk on the form supplied
for the filing purposes. The appeal must be filed within 10 days from the date
of service of the order or action of the enforcement officer. Upon receipt of
any appeal filed pursuant to this section, the enforcement officer shall
present it to the City Council.
   1.   As soon as practicable after receiving the written appeal, the City
Council shall fix a date, time, and place of hearing. Said hearing shall be not
less than five days or more than 20 days from the date the written notice of
appeal is filed.
   2.   Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a waiver of rights to an
administrative hearing and adjudication of the notice and order or any portion
thereof.
   3.   Only those matters or issues specifically raised by the appellant shall
be considered in the hearing of the appeal.
   4.   After hearing all testimony, the City Council shall have 30 days to
issue a decision. The decision shall be in writing and shall contain findings
of fact, a determination of the issues presented, and the requirements to be
complied with. The decision shall be served on the appellant by certified mail,
return receipt requested.
145.06   POSTING OF SIGNS.
   1.   The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to a
dangerous building a notice reading:
   2.   DANGEROUS BUILDING. DO NOT OCCUPY.
It is a municipal infraction to occupy this building, or to remove or deface
this notice.
Enforcement Officer, City of Dyersville.
   3.   Such notice shall remain posted until the required repairs, demolition,
or removal are completed. Such notice must not be removed or defaced until the
repairs, demolition, or removal ordered by the enforcement officer have been
completed, and no person shall enter the building except for the purpose of
making the required repairs or of demolishing the dangerous building.
   4.   Failure to comply with this section is a municipal infraction, with
each day the violation continues a separate offense.
145.07   RIGHT TO ABATE.
   If the property owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice
to repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the City may perform the required action.
(Iowa Code Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.08   COSTS.
   Any and all costs incurred pursuant to this chapter, for the removal,
repair, demolition, or dismantling of a dangerous building or structure from
private property may be certified to the County Treasurer for property
assessment and collection as taxes and/or the City may obtain a personal
judgment against the property owner.
CHAPTER 146
RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOLS
 
146.01 Swimming Pool Definition  146.03 Residential Swimming Pool Policy
146.02 Residential Swimming Pool 146.04 Liability of City
Requirements
 
146.01   SWIMMING POOL DEFINITION.  
   A “swimming pool” is an outdoor artificial basin of water of either
temporary or permanent construction, whether above or below ground, capable of
containing water of a depth of 24 inches or more, and which is not emptied
within a 24-hour period. Swimming pools exclude man-made lakes, or ponds
created through the collection of storm water or drainage runoff, spas and hot
tubs equipped with a latching cover.
146.02   RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to install a residential
swimming within and inside the City without the written permission of the City
Administrator or the City Council, and upon such terms and conditions as the
City Administrator or City Council shall require.
146.03   RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOL POLICY.
   The City Administrator shall develop, with the approval of the City Council,
a written residential swimming pool policy governing maintenance, pool location
and barrier requirements.
146.04   LIABILITY OF CITY.
   Nothing contained in any provisions of this chapter or within the
Residential Swimming Pool Policy shall be construed to impose liability on the
City or any of its officials.
CHAPTER 147
FIRE ZONE
 
147.01 Fire Zone Established     147.06 Special Permit
147.02 Plans Submitted           147.07 Removal of Buildings
147.03 Buildings Prohibited      147.08 Storage of Materials Restricted
147.04 Construction Standards    147.09 Flammable and Combustible Liquids
147.05 Reconstruction Prohibited
 
147.01   FIRE ZONE ESTABLISHED.
   A Fire Zone is established to include all of the following territory:
   All that part of the City not zoned as R-1, R-2 and A-1 in accordance with
the City’s Zoning Ordinance.
147.02   PLANS SUBMITTED.
   It is unlawful to build, enlarge or alter any structure, building or part
thereof, within the Fire Zone until a plan of the proposed work, together with
a statement of materials to be used has been submitted to the Council, who
shall, if in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, issue a permit for
the proposed work.
147.03   BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   The erection of any building or structure of any kind, or additions thereto,
or substantial alterations thereof, involving partial rebuilding, are
prohibited in the Fire Zone, unless constructed in strict compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
147.04   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The construction standards for all buildings, structures, or parts thereof
within the Fire Zone shall be of Type I, Type II, or, at a minimum, Type III -
1 hour fire resistant - construction, as specified in the latest edition of the
Uniform Building Code.
147.05   RECONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   Any building within the Fire Zone not constructed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, which may hereafter be damaged by fire, decay, or
otherwise, shall not be rebuilt, altered, or reconstructed except in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
147.06   SPECIAL PERMIT.
   The Council may, by four-fifths vote, issue a special permit to improve any
property within the Fire Zone contrary to the provisions of this chapter, on
condition that such improvement shall not increase the rates for fire insurance
or the fire hazard potential of the area, or to allow any person to erect or
move in any building or structure for temporary purposes for a period of time
not exceeding six months from the date of such permission.
147.07   REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS.
   Any person who erects any building in the Fire Zone, contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, shall be given written notice by the Mayor to
remove or tear down the same, and if such removal or taking down is not
completed within 30 days from the time of the service of such notice, the Mayor
shall cause the same to be removed or taken down. The Mayor shall report an
itemized bill of the expense to the Clerk, and the same shall be charged to the
person owning such building. The Clerk shall present the bill to the owner of
the property and if the bill is not paid within 10 days from the date it is
presented, the amount of the bill shall be certified, by the Clerk, to the
County Treasurer, as a lien against the property and collected the same as
other taxes.
147.08   STORAGE OF MATERIALS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall have or deposit any grain stack, pile of rubbish,
explosives, hazardous chemicals or other flammable substance within the Fire
Zone, nor shall any person have or deposit any cord wood or fire wood, within
the Fire Zone without written permission from the Mayor, specifying the maximum
amount of such cord wood or fire wood, that may be kept, stored, or deposited
on any lot or part of a lot within the Fire Zone, unless the same be within one
of the buildings allowed by this chapter. No person shall build or allow any
fires, whether trash fires or otherwise, within the Fire Zone as described in
this chapter.
147.09   FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS.
   The following restrictions apply to the outside above ground storage of
Class I and Class II Flammable and Combustible Liquids within the following
specified zoned areas:
R-1   No storage
R-2   No storage
A-1   On special condition by Fire Chief and with permit
C-1   No storage
C-2   No storage
I-1   500 gallon storage by permit
I-2   500 gallon storage by permit
I-3   500 gallon storage by permit
CHAPTER 148
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
 
148.01 Definitions                 148.03 Foundation Requirements
148.02 Conversion to Real Property
 
148.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1)
   1.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under the
authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403 which was constructed on or after June 15,
1976, and is required by federal law to display a seal from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   2.   “Manufactured home community” means any site, lot, field, or tract of
land under common ownership upon which ten or more occupied manufactured homes
are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
building, structure, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of the manufactured home community.
   3.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa. A mobile home means any such vehicle
built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building code
and which contains no State or federal seals.
   4.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon
which three or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a combination of any
of these homes, are placed on developed spaces and operated as a for-profit
enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical services available.
The term “manufactured home community” or “mobile home park” is not to be
construed to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other
structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational institution,
or company on its own premises and used exclusively to house said entity’s own
labor or students. The manufactured home community or mobile home park shall
meet the requirements of any zoning regulations that are in effect.
148.02   CONVERSION TO REAL PROPERTY.
   A mobile home or manufactured home that is located outside a manufactured
home community or mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being
placed on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes
except in the following cases:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.26)
   1.   Retailer’s Stock. Mobile homes or manufactured homes on private
property as part of a retailer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a place
for human habitation.
   2.   Existing Homes. A taxable mobile home or manufactured home that is
located outside of a manufactured home community or mobile home park as of
January 1, 1995, shall be assessed and taxed as real estate, but is exempt from
the permanent foundation requirement of this chapter until the home is
relocated.
148.03   FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
   A mobile home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park must be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system that meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code. The
foundation system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation systems
of surrounding residential structures. Any such home must be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10 & 414.28)
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions             150.04 Even/Odd Numbers
150.02 Owner Requirements      150.05 Prefixes
150.03 Building Numbering Plan
 
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
   2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
   Every owner must comply with the following numbering requirements:
   1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner must obtain the assigned number to
the principal building from the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   2.   Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than three inches high and two inches
wide and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 10 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
   Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
150.04   EVEN/ODD NUMBERS.
   On streets or avenues extending north and south, the even numbers shall be
on the west side of the street or avenue and the odd numbers on the east side
of the street or avenue. On all streets or avenues extending east and west, the
even numbers shall be on the north side and the odd numbers on the south side
of the street or avenue.
150.05   PREFIXES.
   Streets or avenues extending east and west from the base line shall bear the
prefix “East” or “West.” Streets or avenues extending north and south from the
base line shall bear the prefix “North” or “South.”
CHAPTER 151
TREES AND LANDSCAPING
 
151.01 Planting and Removal 151.02 Street Tree and Landscaping on Public Right-
                            of-Way Policy
 
151.01   PLANTING AND REMOVAL.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to plant or remove trees
in the public right of way without the written permission of the City
Administrator or the City Council, and upon such terms and conditions as the
City Administrator or City Council shall require.
151.02   STREET TREE AND LANDSCAPING ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY POLICY.
   The City Administrator shall develop, with the approval of the City Council,
a written street tree and landscaping on public right of way policy which shall
govern the planting, maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, non-woody
vegetation, or other landscaping in the public right-of-way.
CHAPTER 152
WELL PROTECTION
 
152.01 Definitions 152.03 Exception
152.02 Application 152.04 Nonconforming Uses
 
152.01   DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined as used in this chapter:
   1.   “Aquifer” means a rock formation, group of rock formations, or part of
a rock formation that contains enough saturated permeable materials to yield
significant quantities of water.
   2.   “Contamination” means the presence of any harmful or deleterious
substances in the water supply.
   3.   “Deep public well” means a public well located and constructed in such
a manner that there is a continuous layer of low permeability soil or rock at
least five feet thick located at least 25 feet below the normal ground surface
and above the aquifer from which the water is drawn.
   4.   “Shallow public well” means a public well located and constructed in
such a manner that there is not a continuous layer of low permeability soil or
rock at least five feet thick located at least 25 feet below the normal ground
surface and above the aquifer from which the water is drawn.
   5.   “Well” means a pit or hole sunk into the earth to reach a resource
supply such as water.
152.02   APPLICATION.
   No structure or facility of the enumerated types set out in the following
Table A shall be located within the distances set forth in said Table from
public wells within the City.
152.03   EXCEPTION.
   Proscriptions set forth in Table A apply to all public water wells existing
within the City except public water wells formerly abandoned for use by
resolution of the Council.
152.04   NONCONFORMING USES.
   The use of structures or facilities existing as of the date of adoption of
the ordinance codified in this chapter may be continued even though such use
may not conform to the regulations in this chapter; in other words, such uses
may be located within the distances set forth. However, such structure or
facility that is not in conformance with the terms of this chapter may not be
enlarged, extended, reconstructed, or substituted subsequent to the such date.
TABLE A: SEPARATION DISTANCES
SOURCE OF CONTAMINATION REQUIRED MINIMUM LATERAL DISTANCE FROM WELL AS
                        HORIZONTAL ON THE GROUND SURFACE, IN FEET
                       Deep Well1 Shallow Well1
SOURCE OF     REQUIRED MINIMUM LATERAL DISTANCE FROM WELL AS HORIZONTAL ON THE
CONTAMINATION GROUND SURFACE, IN FEET
             Deep Well1              Shallow Well1
WASTEWATER STRUCTURES:
Point of Discharge to Ground Surface
Sanitary and
industrial    400                     400
discharges
Water
treatment     50                      50
plant wastes
Well house    5                       5
floor drains
Sewers and Drains2
              0 – 25 feet: prohibited
Sanitary and  25 – 75 feet if water 0 – 25 feet: prohibited
storm sewers, main pipe               25 – 75 feet if water main pipe
drains        75 – 200 feet if      75 – 200 feet if sanitary sewer main pipe
              sanitary sewer pipe
              0 – 75 feet: prohibite0 – 75 feet: prohibited
Sewer force   75 – 400 feet if water75 – 400 feet if water main pipe
mains         main pipe               400 – 1,000 feet if sanitary sewer main
              400 – 1,000 feet if   pipe
              sanitary sewer pipe
Water plant
treatment     0 – 5 feet: prohibited
process       5 – 50 feet if sanitar0 – 5 feet: prohibited
wastes that   sewer pipe              5 – 50 feet if sanitary sewer main pipe
are treated
onsite
Water plant   0 – 25 feet: prohibited
wastes to     25 – 75 feet if water 0 – 25 feet: prohibited
sanitary      main pipe               25 – 75 feet if water main pipe
sewer         75 – 200 feet if      75 – 200 feet if sanitary sewer main pipe
              sanitary sewer pipe
              0 – 25 feet: prohibited
Well house    25 – 75 feet if water 0 – 25 feet: prohibited
floor drains  main pipe               25 – 75 feet if water main pipe
to sewers     75 – 200 feet if      75 – 200 feet if sanitary sewer main pipe
              sanitary sewer pipe
Well house    0 – 5 feet: prohibited0 – 5 feet: prohibited
floor drains  5 – 50 feet if sanitar5 – 50 feet if sanitary sewer main pipe
to surface    sewer pipe
Land Disposal of Treated Wastes
Irrigation of  200   400
wastewater
Land
application of 200   400
solid wastes3
Other
Cesspools and
earth pit      200   400
privies
Concrete
vaults and     100   200
septic tanks
Lagoons        400   1,000
Mechanical
wastewater     200   400
treatment
plants
Soil
absorption     200   400
fields
Chemical
application to 100   200
ground surface
Chemical &
mineral        100   200
storage above
ground
Chemical &
mineral        200   400
storage on or
under ground
Transmission
pipelines
(such as
fertilizer,    200   400
liquid
petroleum, or
anhydrous
ammonia)
ANIMALS:
Animal         50    50
pasturage
Animal         200   400
enclosure
Earthen silage
storage trench 100   200
or pit
Animal Wastes
Land
application of 200   400
liquid or
slurry
Land
application of 200   400
solids
Solids         200   400
stockpile
Storage basin  400   1,000
or lagoon
Storage tank   200   400
MISCELLANEOUS:
Basements,     10    10
pits, sumps
Cemeteries     200   200
Cisterns       50    100
Flowing
streams or     50    50
other surface
water bodies
GHEX loop      200   200
boreholes
Railroads      100   200
Private wells  200   400
Solid waste
landfills and  1,000 1,000
disposal
sites4
 
1   Deep and shallow wells, as defined in IAC 567-40.2(455B): A deep well is a
well located and constructed in such a manner that there is a continuous layer
of low permeability soil or rock at least five feet thick located at least 25
feet below the normal ground surface and above the aquifer from which water is
to be drawn. A shallow well is a well located and constructed in such a manner
that there is not a continuous layer of low permeability soil or rock (or
equivalent retarding mechanism acceptable to the department) at least five feet
thick, the top of which is located at least 25 feet below the normal ground
surface and above the aquifer from which water is to be drawn.
2   The separation distances are dependent upon two factors: the type of piping
that is in the existing sewer or drain, as noted in the table, and that the
piping was properly installed in accordance with the standards.
3   Solid wastes are those derived from the treatment of water or wastewater.
Certain types of solid wastes from water treatment processes may be land-
applied within the separation distance on an individual, case-by-case basis.
4   Solid waste means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar discarded
solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such materials
resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic activities.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
 
165.01 Basic Provisions              165.07 Parking, Loading, and Site Access
165.02 Transitional Provisions       165.08 Landscaping and Screening
165.03 Administration and Procedures 165.09 Supplemental Standards
165.04  Definitions                  165.10 Sign Regulations
165.05 Zoning District Regulations   165.11 Nonconforming Development
165.06 Site Development Regulations  165.12 Violations, Penalties, and
                                     Enforcement
165.01   BASIC PROVISIONS
   165.01.01.   Title. This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as
the “Zoning Ordinance” of the City of Dyersville, Iowa.
   165.01.02.   Authority. This Zoning Ordinance is adopted pursuant to the
authority as permitted and limited by applicable law of the Iowa Code
including, but not limited to Chapter 372, Section 372.9, Code Section 364.1,
and Chapter 414.
      A.   Iowa Code. Additional authority for the provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance is provided by the Iowa Code, as permitted and limited by applicable
law, provided they are either preemptive or consistent with the provisions of
this Zoning Ordinance.
      B.   Federal Law. The provisions of this Zoning Ordinance are subject to
all applicable federal regulations including, but not limited to:
         i.   Interstate Commerce Commission Termination Act of 1995;
         ii.   Federal Fair Housing Act; and
         iii.   Religion Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA)
      C.   Other Authority. Should additional authorizing legislation exist or
be enacted, this Zoning Ordinance is additionally deemed to be enacted or
effective pursuant thereto, except:
         i.   This Zoning Ordinance shall be superseded by such legislation
only to the extent of any irreconcilable conflict if the City’s home rule
authority does not subordinate such legislation; and
         ii.   This Zoning Ordinance shall supersede inconsistent legislation
if the City’s home rule authority so provides.
   165.01.03.   Jurisdiction. All provisions of this Zoning Ordinance apply
within the corporate limits of the City of Dyersville, Iowa, as may be
expanded, contracted, or modified from time to time, and all property within
the unincorporated area of Delaware County which is within two (2) miles of the
corporate limits of the City, as provided by Section 414.23 of the Code of
Iowa.
   165.01.04.   Consistency with Adopted Plans. The City of Dyersville intends
that this Zoning Ordinance and any amendments to it shall be consistent with
the City’s Comprehensive Plan and other adopted plans, subject to the City’s
home rule, constitutional, and statutory power. It is the City’s intent to
amend this chapter whenever such action is deemed necessary to keep regulatory
provisions in conformance with the Comprehensive Plan.
   165.01.05.   Purpose. The Council deems it necessary to implement the
regulations in this Zoning Ordinance to:
      A.   Lessen congestion in the streets;
      B.   Secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers;
      C.   Promote health and the general welfare;
      D.   Provide adequate light and air;
      E.   Prevent the overcrowding of land;
      F.   Avoid undue concentration of population;
      G.   Facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements;
      H.   Conserve the value of buildings and property; and
      I.   Encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the City with
reasonable consideration, and in accordance with a comprehensive plan.
   165.01.06.   Application. No land shall be used or developed except in
accordance with this Zoning Ordinance and the Dyersville Code of Ordinances,
where applicable. This Zoning Ordinance shall also be in accordance with the
following special situations:
      A.   Publicly-Owned Property. Those portions of this Zoning Ordinance
that govern the location of allowed and conditional uses shall not apply to the
governments of the United States of America or the State of Iowa and their
agencies and political subdivisions, and the City in the performance of their
government functions. All other provisions of this Zoning Ordinance apply.
      B.   Relationship to Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions; Private
Agreements. This Zoning Ordinance is not intended to abrogate, annul, or
otherwise interfere with any easement, covenant, condition, restriction, or
other private agreement or legal relationship; provided, however, that where
the regulations of this Zoning Ordinance are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or requirements, then the regulations of this Zoning Ordinance shall
govern. The City will not search for private restrictions on property or
interpret, apply, or enforce private restrictions unless it is a party to them.
      C.   Specific Exceptions. Specific exceptions to the requirements of this
Zoning Ordinance may be set out in individual portions throughout.
      D.   Prohibited Uses. No use of any building, structure, or land; no
building or structure; and no lot of record, now or hereafter existing, shall
be established, altered, moved, divided, or maintained after the effective date
of this chapter except as authorized by the provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance.
   165.01.07.   Interpretation of Standards. The provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance shall be held to be minimum requirements. Where this Zoning Ordinance
imposes a greater restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions
of law, or by other rules or regulations or ordinances, the provisions of this
Zoning Ordinance shall control. Where for specific land, the requirements of
any other ordinances of the City are more stringent or restrictive than the
requirements set forth in this chapter, nothing herein shall be construed to
waive compliance with the provisions of such other ordinance.
   165.01.08.   Relief from Other Provisions. Nothing in these provisions shall
relieve any property owner or user from satisfying any condition or requirement
associated with a previous approval, conditional permit, variance, development
permit, or other permit issued under any local, State, or Federal ordinance or
statute.
   165.01.09.   Severability of Provision. If any chapter, section, clause, or
phrase of this Zoning Ordinance is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this Zoning Ordinance.
   165.01.10.   Publication. This Zoning Ordinance shall be posted in a
publicly accessible digital format as well as published in book form and shall,
together with the maps being a part hereof, be filed in City Hall of the City
of Dyersville, Iowa.
   165.01.11.   Effective Date. The effective date is the adopted date or most
recent amended date of this Zoning Ordinance by the City of Dyersville City
Council.
165.02   TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
   165.02.01.   Pending Applications. Each application, permit, development
agreement, resolution, or action of the Administrator, Board, Commission, or
City Council for development approval shall be evaluated by the regulations
that were in effect at the time the application was submitted, including
applications pending on the effective date of this chapter.
   165.02.02.   Predated Approvals. It is the intent of the City to respect
existing development approvals and building permits. Approved development and
building plans may be carried out within the scope of the approved plans,
including applicable standards in effect at the time of approval provided the
approval is valid and has not expired. The following situations shall apply:
      A.   Nothing in this Zoning Ordinance shall be deemed to require any
change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any structure that was
lawfully approved, not expired, and commenced construction within 90 days of
the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance in effect at the time of approval
while also thereafter pursued to completion.
      B.   Development approvals that are valid on the effective date of this
Zoning Ordinance are valid for the duration specified at the time of approval,
or if no duration was specified, then 365 days.
   165.02.03.   Existing Variances and Conditional Use Permits.
      A.   Any variance or conditional use permit lawfully issued for a lot or
parcel of land prior to the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance, which
could be lawfully issued pursuant to the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance in
effect at the time of approval shall be deemed to be valid. Any structure or
use of land lawfully authorized by any variance or conditional use permit,
which could not be issued after the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance
shall be allowed to continue subject to the provisions of Section 165.11: Non-
Conforming Development.
      B.   Any existing structure or use of land established as of right for a
lot or parcel of land under any previous regulations in which it is listed as a
conditional or use in this Zoning Ordinance shall be a lawful conditional use
of land upon the adoption of this Zoning Ordinance; provided, however, that any
such existing structure or use of land that is vacated, abandoned, or for which
there is a change of ownership shall be null and void.
   165.02.04.   Prior Conditions of Approval. Conditions of development
approvals and agreements that were granted prior to the effective date remain
in force, regardless of the standards of this Zoning Ordinance. Prior
conditions may be modified or eliminated pursuant to new applications listed in
this Zoning Ordinance.
165.03   ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES
   165.03.01.   Purpose. The Administration and Procedures Provisions establish
the methods for implementation of this Zoning Ordinance. These provisions
include procedures for reviewing specific uses within certain zoning districts;
amending this Zoning Ordinance; granting variances; and responsibilities of
various boards and commissions.
   165.03.02.   Application. The Administration and Procedures Provisions apply
to all properties in the jurisdiction of the City of Dyersville.
   165.03.03.   Administrative Bodies, Powers, and Duties.
      A.   City Council. The City Council has all powers conferred upon it by
Chapter 17, Council, of the Dyersville Code of Ordinances, and the laws of the
State of Iowa. With respect to decision-making pursuant to this Zoning
Ordinance, in addition to the authorized acts of the Code of Ordinances, the
City Council will exercise the powers set out in this Subsection.
         i.   After a public hearing is held and after reports and
recommendations are provided by the Administrator, the Commission, or another
board, commission, or committee, the City Council shall hear and decide the
following:
            a.   Plans and programs for the development and redevelopment of
its area of jurisdiction, when applicable in this Zoning Ordinance. This
includes, but is not limited to, amending the text and maps of the
Comprehensive Plan or other plans from time to time;
            b.   Proposed covenants, conditions, and restrictions as required
by the City;
            c.   Proposed amendments to the text of this Zoning Ordinance;
            d.   Proposed amendments to the Official Zoning Map;
            e.   Planned unit development site plans and any major changes
thereof;
            f.   Appeals that are not under the authority of the Board of
Adjustment;
            g.   Local designation of historic districts and historic sites and
nominations to the National Register of Historic Places; and
            h.   Any other action not delegated to any other board or
commission as the City Council may deem desirable and necessary to implement
the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance and the goals and objectives of the
City, provided such action is not contrary to the requirements of this Zoning
Ordinance or State law.
      B.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Refer to Chapter 23 of the
Dyersville Code of Ordinances.
      C.   Board of Adjustment, Board Created. A Board of Adjustment is
established, which shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the Council.
The terms of office of the members of the Board of Adjustment shall be as
provided by statute.
(Ord. 857 – Oct. 23 Supp.)
         i.   Meetings. The meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held
at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may
determine. Such Chairperson or, in his/her absence, the acting Chairperson may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the
Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall adopt its own rules of
procedure not in conflict with this Code of Ordinances or with the Code of Iowa
and may select or appoint such officers as it deems necessary. The Board shall
keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member on each
question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
be immediately filed in the office of the Clerk, and shall be a public record.
The presence of three (3) members shall be necessary to constitute a quorum.   
(Ord. 857 – Oct. 23 Supp.)
         ii.   Jurisdiction. The Board of Adjustment shall have the powers set
out in this section, and it shall be its duty to hear and decide appeals where
it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Council in the enforcement of this chapter.
         iii.   Limitations on Board. Nothing contained in this section shall
be construed to give or grant to the Board of Adjustment the power of authority
to alter or change this chapter or the zoning map, such power and authority
being reserved to the Council in the manner provided in Subsubsection 165.03.03
A, City Council.
         iv.   Records. The action of the Board shall not become effective
until after the resolution of the Board, setting forth the full reason for its
decision, and the vote of each member participating therein, has been recorded
in the minutes. Such resolution, immediately following the Board’s final
decision, shall be filed in the office of the Board, and it shall be open to
public inspection. Every variation and exception granted or denied by the Board
shall be supported by a written testimony, or evidence submitted in connection
therewith.
         v.   Court Appeal. Any taxpayer, or any officer, department, or board
of the City, or any person or persons jointly or separately aggrieved by any
decision of the Board, may present to a court of record a position to be
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole, or part,
specifying the ground of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to
the court within thirty (30) days after the filing of the decision in the
office of the Board. Upon the presentation of such petition the court may
direct the Board to review such decision of the Board and shall prescribe
therein the time within which a return thereto shall be made, which shall be
not less than ten (10) days and be extended by the court.
         vi.   Court Writ. The allowance of the writ shall not stay proceedings
on the decisions appealed from, but the court may, on application, upon notice
to the Board, and on due cause shown, grant a restraining order. If upon the
hearing it shall appear to the court that testimony is necessary for proper
disposition of the matter, it may take such evidence, or appoint a referee to
take such evidence, as it may direct, and report the same to the court with the
findings of fact and conclusions of law, which shall constitute a part of the
proceedings upon which the determination of the court shall be made.
         vii.   Court Costs. The court may reverse or affirm, wholly or in
part, or may modify the decision brought up for review. Costs shall not be
allowed against the Board, unless it shall appear to the court that the Board
acted with gross negligence, or in bad faith, or with malice in making the
decision appealed from.
         viii.   Powers and Duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the
following powers and duties, as described in this Zoning Ordinance:
            a.   Appeals. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there
is error in any order, requirement, decisions, or determination made by the
Administrator, or designee, or another administrative official or agency, in
the enforcement of this Zoning Ordinance or any regulations relating to the
location or soundness of structures;
            b.   Conditional Use Permits. To hear and decide the approval of
applications for conditional use permits, as provided by this Zoning Ordinance;
            c.   Variances to Relieve Hardships Relating to Property. To
authorize, upon appeal, variances from the strict application of this chapter
where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of a specific
piece of property at the time of enactment of the zoning regulations; or by
reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary and
exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property, such strict
application would result in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to
or exceptional and undue hardships upon the owner of such property; and
            d.   Interpretations. Interpretations of the provisions of this
Zoning Ordinance and the Official Zoning Map, upon referral by the
Administrator.
      D.   Administrator. The City Administrator is ultimately responsible for
processing an application to decide (in case of administrative approval) or
recommend to another review body (in case of public meeting and hearing
approvals). The Administrator shall designate staff members to manage
applications through the review process and to be points of contact for
applicants, and to perform such other functions and duties as may be required
of the Administrator by this Zoning Ordinance. The Administrator may also
designate review responsibilities to other members of City staff with relevant
technical training or expertise, or, as appropriate, to consultants that are
authorized by the City Council.
         i.   Duties and Responsibilities. For the purposes of reference, the
Administrator has the following duties and responsibilities with respect to the
administration of this Zoning Ordinance. Such duties may be allocated by the
Administrator in the exercise of the responsibilities without amendment to this
Zoning Ordinance.
            a.   Interpret the general intent and/or specific meaning of any
portion of this Zoning Ordinance text, position of district boundaries,
district designation, or other matters relating to the Official Zoning Map;
            b.   Maintain the Official Zoning Map and record all amendments to
and information thereon;
            c.   Provide public information relating to zoning matters
including scheduled meetings of the Commission and Board of Adjustment;
            d.   Receive, process, and record all applications in this Zoning
Ordinance with accompanying plans and documents, all of which shall be a public
record;
            e.   Register and maintain records and maps of nonconforming uses,
buildings, structures, lighting, landscaping, bufferyards, signs, parking and
loading, site access, site improvements, and lots;
            f.   Revoke permits or certificates in violation of the provisions
of this Zoning Ordinance; and
            g.   Serve as staff liaison to the Commission and in that capacity
when requested to do so by the Commission, attend the meetings of the
Commission, inform them of all facts and information with respect to any matter
brought before the Commission and perform other duties as may be assigned by
this Zoning Ordinance and by the rules of the Commission.
            h.   Serve as staff liaison to the Board of Adjustment and attend
all meetings, inform the Board of Adjustment of all facts and information at
his/her disposal with respect to any matter brought before the Board of
Adjustment, perform such other duties as may be assigned to him/her by this
Zoning Ordinance by the rules of the Board of Adjustment.
            i.   Initiate and continue such social, economic, physical, and
environmental studies as may be necessary or appropriate for the development
and revision of the Comprehensive Plan by the Commission; and
            j.   Maintain permanent and current records of applications and
meetings described in Subsection 165.03.04, Permits and Procedures including
all maps; amendments; development approvals and denials; and decisions rendered
by the Commission together with relevant background files and materials.
            k.   Identify ordinance violations and enforce the provisions of
this Zoning Ordinance and approvals.
   165.03.04.   Permits and Procedures.
      A.   General Procedures. The administration and procedures provisions in
this Subsection establish the methods for implementation of this Zoning
Ordinance, summarized in 165.03.04.01, Permits and Procedures Summary.
      B.   Except where this Zoning Ordinance or State Statues provides
otherwise, the following procedures are required:
         i.   Application. For requests not initiated by the City or
Commission, an application shall be submitted on a form approved by the
Administrator. Application forms shall include the specific information that is
required to process each type of application, except where this Section
describes otherwise. The Administrator may waive certain submittal requirements
to tailor the requirements to the information necessary to review a particular
application.
         ii.   Fees. The City Council shall from time to time establish fees by
resolution for the processing and review of the various applications that are
required by this Zoning Ordinance. The fees shall be reasonable but shall not
exceed the actual costs to review the applications. The City Council may
provide for a flat fee, plus require the reimbursement of extraordinary costs
to the City that are necessitated by an application, such are fees for expert
technical review or advice from consultants. Fees are nonrefundable once an
application is deemed complete by the Administrator.
         iii.   Administrator Referral.
            a.   The Administrator may refer any application in this Zoning
Ordinance for review and approval of the Commission and Council, subject to the
procedures in Subsection 165.03.04A, General Procedures, when an application
presents such scale, intensity, or interpretation that warrants additional
public review, professional input, or Council authority.
            b.   When an application in this Zoning Ordinance requires review
and approval by the Commission, Board of Adjustment, City Council, or other
agency, the Administrator shall refer the application for action at the next
scheduled meeting provided the application is submitted at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the next scheduled meeting, unless the applicant shall agree to
some later time.
         iv.   Notice Requirements. When a public hearing is required, notice
of public hearings shall be provided by giving at least seven days’ notice of
the time, date, and place of such hearing, which notice shall first be
published in a newspaper having a general circulation in the City.
         v.   Public Hearing. When a public hearing is required, prior to
making any recommendation or action on the respective permit, plan, or item, or
part thereof, to the Commission and City Council, shall set and conduct a
public hearing in accordance with Iowa Code of Law.
         vi.   Decisions. Except where this Zoning Ordinance or State Statues
provides otherwise, official action requires the favorable vote of a majority
of a quorum present. Any time limit specified in this zoning ordinance for any
decision or action on behalf of a review or decision-making body may be
extended if the applicant agrees to an extension in writing or on the record
during the applicable hearing or if the Administrator determines that a delay
of one meeting is necessary for completions of review.
         Summary Table. Table 165.03.04.01, Permits and Procedures Summary
summarizes the application types. Applications for one development project may
be filed concurrently, subject to the application requirements and procedures.
165.03.04.01 Permit and Procedures Summary
Application Required For Application Time Procedure Timeframe
Application     Required For    Application     Procedure       Timeframe
                                Time
                Adoption or                     Commission
Comprehensive   Amendment to    As needed       recommendation; N/A
Plan            the Plan                        City Council
                                                approval
                Building                        Construction <
                construction,                   $1 million:
                reconstruction,                 Administrator
                improvement, or Before the      approval;
Building Permit other such      beginning of    Construction    Varies
                repair where    construction    value > $1
                required by the                 million:
                building code.                  Council
                                                approval.
                                                                Within 10
                Occupation of a Prior to                        working days
Certificate of  building or     occupation of   Administrator   after
Occupancy       structure       the building or issuance        notification
                                structure                       from property
                                                                owner
                                                                Within 10
Certificate of  Erection or     Concurrently                    working days
Zoning          alteration of   with a          Administrator   after
Compliance      buildings or    Certificate of  issuance        notification
                structures      Occupancy                       from property
                                                                owner
                                Before the      Administrator   Within 30 days
                                beginning of    approval;       after filing
                Uses listed for construction    Commission and  for
Site Plan       site plan       and other       City Council    Administrator
                review.         permit          upon referral   decision or
                                applications    of              referral.
                                                Administrator
                                Before the                      45 days for
                As requested by beginning of    Commission      Administrator
Planned Unit    a property      construction    recommendation; report to
Development     owner before    and other       City Council    Commission;
                development     permit          approval        recommendation
                                applications                    by Commission
                                                                within 30 days
                New conditional
                uses; changes                                   Hearing within
                to an existing  Prior to                        30 days of
Conditional Use conditional     establishment   Board of        filing;
Permit          use; material   of a            Adjustment      Decision within
                changes to or   conditional use                 30 days after
                expansion of a                                  public hearing
                conditional use
                Development,    Prior to        Subject to
                additions,      building permit Subsection
Floodplain      redevelopment,  or land         165.06.20,      N/A
Development     or grading in   development     Floodplain
                the floodplain. approvals       Overlay
                                                District
                                                                Referral to the
                Amendments to   Prior to or                     Commission
Map and         the Official    concurrent with Commission      within 30 days;
Ordinance Text  Zoning Map or   other permit    recommendation; Commission
Amendments      Zoning          and approval    City Council    report to
                Ordinance       processes       approval        Council within
                                                                30 days after
                                                                public hearing
                Interpretations
                of any
                provision of    Prior to or
                this Ordinance  concurrent with                 Decision within
Interpretations as requested by other permit    Administrator   10 working days
                any person,     and approval                    of application
                property owner, processes
                or city board
                or commission
                Any person                                      Application
                aggrieved, or                                   forwarded
                by any officer,                                 within 10
                department, or  Within 10                       working days of
Appeals         board of the    working days of Board of        file; Decision
                City affected   the decision    Adjustment      of the Board
                by any decision being appealed                  within 30 days
                of the Council,                                 after public
                Commission, or                                  hearing
                Administrator
                Any person
                seeking relief
                from the strict Prior to
                application of  building permit
                the Ordinance   for
                where such      improvements
                strict          for which a
                application     variance is                     Decision within
Variance        would result in required;       Board of        30 days after
                peculiar and    concurrently    Adjustment      public hearing
                exceptions      with other
                practical       applications
                difficulties to for development
                or exceptional  approval that
                and undue       include
                hardships upon  variances
                the owner of
                such property.
                Any person
                seeking to
                install a
                permitted                                       Decision within
Sign Permit     permanent sign, Prior to        Administrator   30 days of
                except for      installation                    application
                signs
                explicitly
                exempted from a
                sign permit.
 
      C.   Comprehensive Plan. Procedures for adopting a Comprehensive Plan are
set out in Iowa Code, Section 414.3 and the contents of a Comprehensive Plan
may consider the smart planning principles under Iowa Code, Section 18B. Upon
adoption, the Comprehensive Plan shall be considered an official statement of
the policy of the City of Dyersville.
         i.   Administration. Following its adoption, a comprehensive plan may
be amended by the Council at any time, based on recommendation from the
Commission, in the same procedures as adoption.
         ii.   Application. For requests not initiated by the City or
Commission, an application shall be submitted per Subsubsubsection
165.03.04.B.i, Permits and Procedures Application.
         iii.   Public Hearing. The Commission, prior to making any
recommendation for the adoption or amendment of the Comprehensive Plan, or part
thereof, to the City Council, shall set, notice, and conduct a public hearing
as permitted and limited by applicable law of the Iowa Code of Law and
Subsubsection 165.03.04. A, General Procedures.
         iv.   Commission Report. Following such public hearing, the Commission
shall recommend action to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
application. A vote either for or against an amendment by a majority of all
Commission members shall constitute a recommendation to the City Council. If
the Commission makes no report within thirty (30) days, it shall be considered
to have made a report approving the plan.
         v.   Council Vote. Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of a
recommendation by the Commission, the City Council shall set, notice, and
conduct a public hearing as permitted and limited by applicable law of the Iowa
Code of Law and Subsubsection 165.03.04. A, General Procedures to review and
consider the Comprehensive Plan for adoption. The City Council may approve,
approve with conditions, refer back to the Commission, or deny the
Comprehensive Plan, upon a recommendation of the Commission. Approval shall be
made by resolution.
         vi.   Approval or Amendment Criteria. The following criteria shall be
considered to determine whether a Comprehensive Plan shall be approved or
amended.
            a.   A proposed map amendment is warranted by changing conditions
in the area, or it corrects an error in fact concerning the property's future
land use classification at the time of the original plan adoption;
            b.   If the map amendment is approved, there will be an adequate
supply of land permitted in the category being changed;
            c.   A proposed text amendment furthers the goals, objectives, and
policies of the Comprehensive Plan;
            d.   A proposed text amendment advances a legitimate public need;
and
            e.   A proposed text amendment is warranted by changing conditions
or a current need.
      D.   Building Permit. Building permits must be approved before the
beginning of construction, defined as the commencement of site work and
grading.
         i.   Administration. The Administrator, or his/her designee shall
review, evaluate, and act on all building permits submitted pursuant to this
procedure.
         ii.   Application. To obtain a building permit, the applicant shall
file an application on a form approved by the Administrator. Application forms
shall include the specific information that is required to process each type of
application. Every application shall:
            a.   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by
lot, block tract and house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and definitively locate the proposed building or work;
            b.   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
            c.   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction, including the estimated construction value;
            d.   Be accompanied by a plat, drawn to scale, showing the actual
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size, shape, and location of the
building to be erected, and such other information as may be necessary to
provide for the enforcement of the Dyersville Code of Ordinances;
            e.   Be signed by the permittee or authorized agent who may be
required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;
            f.   Within designated flood prone areas, be accompanied by
elevations (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest habitable floor
(including basement) or in the case of floodproofed nonresidential structures,
the elevation to which it has been floodproofed. Documentation or certification
of such elevations will be maintained by the Administrator;
            g.   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by
the Council such as:
               (i)   A typical valley showing the channel of the stream,
elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-sectional
areas to be corrupted by the proposed development and higher water information;
               (ii)   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the
ground; pertinent structure, fill or storage elevations; size, location and
spatial arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site;
location and elevations of streets, water supply, sanitary facilities,
photographs showing existing land uses and vegetation upstream and downstream,
soil types, and other pertinent information;
               (iii)   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel
or flow line of the stream.
         iii.   Administrator Approval. Applications that list a construction
value below $1,000,000 shall be approved by the Administrator. Within thirty
(30) days after an application filing, the Administrator shall issue a building
permit based on a finding that the proposed building or structure, or
improvements to an existing building or structure, complies with approved plans
for development (e.g., site plans), all regulations of this Zoning Ordinance,
and all applicable building codes. The decision shall be communicated to the
applicant in writing along with any recommendations.
         iv.   Council Approval. Applications that list a construction value of
$1,000,000 or above shall be approved by the City Council. Within ten (10)
working days after a complete application filing, the Administrator shall refer
the application to the City Council for approval. The Council shall issue a
building permit based on a finding that the proposed building or structure, or
improvements to an existing building or structure, complies with approved plans
for development (e.g., site plans), all regulations of this Zoning Ordinance,
and all applicable building codes. The decision shall be communicated to the
applicant in writing along with any recommendations.
            a.   Previous or Concurrent Site Plan or PUD Approval. Previous
Council approval of a Site Plan or PUD application shall not be construed to
also require Council approval of a building permit for a construction value of
$1,000,000 or more.
         v.   Notification of Completion. Any party having obtained a building
permit shall notify the Administrator when the erection or alteration of the
building is completed. The certificate of occupancy and certificate of zoning
compliance shall then be issued according to Subsubsection 165.03.04 E,
Certificate of Occupancy and 165.03.04 F, Certificate of Zoning Compliance if
the building is found to be in compliance with this Zoning Ordinance and any
other building requirements of the City.
      E.   Certificate of Occupancy. No land shall be occupied or used, and no
buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be occupied or used,
in whole or in part, for any purpose whatsoever, until a certificate of
occupancy is issued by the Administrator, stating the building and use comply
with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance and other building and health
ordinances of the City. No change of use shall be made in any building, or part
thereof, now or hereafter erected, or structurally altered, unless a
certificate of occupancy shall be issued to make a change and unless the
changes are in conformity with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.
         i.   Temporary Certificate. Pending the issuance of a regular
certificate of occupancy, a temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued to
be valid for a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of issuance
and to permit partial occupancy of the premises during completion of the
construction. Such temporary certificates of occupancy shall not be construed
as in any way altering the respective rights, duties or obligations of any
other matter covered by this Zoning Ordinance. Such temporary certificates of
occupancy shall not be issued except under such restrictions and provisions as
will adequately insure the safety of the occupants.
      F.   Certificate of Zoning Compliance. A certificate of compliance shall
be issued within ten (10) working days after the lawful erection or alteration
of the building, change in use, or establishment of a home occupation is
completed. A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of
the City Clerk, and copies shall be furnished upon request to any person having
a proprietary, or tenancy interest in the building affected.
      G.   Site Plan Review. The Site Plan Review procedure provides for review
in addition to building permit and plan review required by other sections of
the Dyersville Code of Ordinances for projects that have potentially
significant effects on traffic circulation or a significant effect on land uses
in adjacent neighborhoods. The procedure provides for review and evaluation of
site development features and possible mitigation of unfavorable effects on
surrounding property.
         i.   Administration. The Administrator, or his/her designee shall
review, evaluate, and act on all site plans submitted pursuant to this
procedure. An applicant may appeal a denial of any application to the Board of
Adjustment.
         ii.   Applicability. All uses indicated as subject to Site Plan Review
(*) in Subsection 165.05.14 Use Matrix are subject to the provisions of this
Subsection, unless otherwise subject to a Conditional Use Permit procedure for
specific zoning districts.
         iii.   Pre-Application Conference. Potential applicants are required
to meet with the Administrator prior to application to discuss the proposal.
The Administrator shall inform the applicant on the details of the site plan
process.
         iv.   Application. An application for a Site Plan Review may be filed
by the owner(s) of a property or the owners' authorized agent with the
Administrator. The application shall include the following information:
            a.   Name and address of the applicant.
            b.   Owner, address, and legal description of the property.
            c.   A description of the nature and operating characteristics of
the proposed use.
            d.   A site plan, drawn to a scale sufficient to permit adequate
review and dimensioned as necessary, showing the following information:
               (i)   The date, scale, north point, title, name of owner, and
name of person preparing the site plan.
               (ii)   The location and dimensions of boundary lines, easements,
and required yards and setbacks of existing and proposed buildings and site
improvements.
               (iii)   The location, size, and use of proposed and existing
structures on the site.
               (iv)    The location of all proposed site improvements,
including parking and loading areas, pedestrian and vehicular access, sewers,
sidewalks, utilities, service areas, fencing, screening, landscaping, and
lighting.
               (v)   Location of any major site feature, including drainage and
contours at no greater than five foot intervals.
            e.   Any other information that may be required for review by the
Administrator, or his/her designee, such as stormwater management plans,
utility plans, landscaping plans, architectural elevations, and off-site
improvements.
         v.   Decision. The Administrator, or his/her designee, after
consultation with other applicable City staff, shall review and approve,
approve with conditions, refer, or deny the site plan based on the criteria
below and conformance with applicable regulations in this Zoning Ordinance. The
Administrator, or his/her designee must act upon each complete application
within thirty (30) days of filing. The decision shall be communicated to the
applicant in writing along with any recommendations.
         vi.   Approval Criteria. The Administrator, or his/her designee (or
the Board of Adjustment in cases of appeal), shall make the following findings
before approval of the site plan:
            a.   Be designed to minimize impacts on the reasonable development
expectations or the use and enjoyment of adjacent land or the public interest,
consistent with the applicable standards of this Zoning Ordinance.
            b.   Include adequate circulation as to not overwhelm the existing
off-site transportation system, create traffic hazards, and safe pedestrian
access.
            c.   Protect public health and safety against natural and man-made
hazards which include, but are not limited to, traffic noise, water pollution,
and flooding.
            d.   Provide for compatibility between the proposed development,
surrounding land uses (existing or planned), and the natural environment.
            e.   Any required modifications to the site plan are reasonable and
are the minimum necessary to minimize potentially unfavorable effects.
            f.   The site plan conforms to this Zoning Ordinance and intent of
the Comprehensive Plan.
         vii.   Referral. The Administrator may refer a site plan application
to the Commission for their review and recommendation to the City Council,
subject to the public hearing requirements in Subsection 165.03.04 A, General
Procedures. The review of the Commission and Council shall be made based on the
Approval Criteria in subsection vi above. A site plan review by the Commission
and approval by Council shall also satisfy building permit approval for
construction values of $1,000,000 or more according to Subsubsection
165.03.04D.iv, Building Permit. Referral may be required when, but not limited
to:
            a.   Discretion is required as to the level of conformity of the
site plan with the standards of this Zoning Ordinance and the policies and
objectives of City plans.
            b.   The project is of such scale and intensity that that warrants
additional public review or professional input and recommendations from other
agencies or organizations.
            c.   This Zoning Ordinance specifically states a use requires
review by that the Commission and/or City Council.
         viii.   Modifications. The Administrator, or his/her designee (or the
Board of Adjustment in cases of appeal), may require modification of a site
plan as a prerequisite for approval based on the criteria in Subsubsubsection
165.03.04.G.vi, Approval Criteria. Required modifications may be more
restrictive than base district regulations and may include, but not be limited
to,
            a.   Additional landscaping or screening;
            b.   Installation of erosion control measures;
            c.   Improvement of access or circulation;
            d.   Rearrangement of structures on the site; or
            e.   Other modifications deemed necessary by substantial evidence
to protect the public health, safety, welfare, community character, property
values, and/or aesthetics.
         ix.   Term. A Site Plan approval shall become void two (2) years after
the date of approval, unless the applicant receives a Building Permit and
diligently carries out development prior to the expiration of this period.
         x.   Modification. The Administrator, or his/her designee, may approve
an application to modify a previously approved site plan if he/she determines
that the modification does not affect findings related to the approval
criteria.
         xi.   Revoking of Approval. The Administrator, or his/her designee may
revoke a Site Plan approval if he/she determines that the development is not
complying with the terms and conditions of the approval. Such revocation may be
appealed to the Board of Adjustment.
         xii.   Effect of Approval. An approval pursuant to this Subsection
shall run with the land until the expiration date of such approval. Upon
approval the applicant may proceed with requests for other required approvals
or permits.
         xiii.   Resubmittal. If the Administrator, Commission, or City Council
deny a site plan application, a new application affecting the same property may
be submitted only if substantial change is made in the plans.
      H.   Planned Unit Development. Application and procedures for Planning
Unit Developments are listed in Subsection 165.06.16, Planned Unit Development
      I.   Conditional Use Permit. This section provides for review and
discretionary Board of Adjustment approval for uses within zoning districts
which have unusual site development or operating characteristics that could
adversely affect surrounding properties. The provisions of this Subsection are
applicable to all uses designated as conditional in Subsection 165.05.14, Use
Matrix.
         i.   Administration. The Board of Adjustment shall review, evaluate
and act upon all applications for a conditional use permit submitted pursuant
to this Subsection.
         ii.   Pre-Application Conference. The applicant shall meet with the
Administrator prior to application to discuss the proposal. The Administrator
shall inform the applicant of the advisability of the conditional use permit
application.
         iii.   Application Requirements. An application for a Conditional Use
Permit may be filed with the Administrator by the owners of a property or the
owners’ authorized agent. The application shall include the following
information:
            a.   Name and address of the applicant.
            b.   Owner, address and legal description of the property.
            c.   A description of the nature and operating characteristics of
the proposed use.
            d.   Any graphic information, including site plans, elevations,
other drawings, or other materials determined by the Administrator to be
necessary to describe the proposed use to approving agencies or required by
other sections in this Zoning Ordinance.
         iv.   Public Hearing. The Administrator shall submit a report of the
application to the Board of Adjustment and elect a reasonable time and place
for such hearing; provided, however, that such time shall be within 30 days
following the submission of the subject application, unless the applicant shall
agree to some later time. The Administrator shall attempt to notify adjacent
property owners within 200 feet of the property in question by mail prior to
the Board of Adjustment meeting. Failure to notify 100 percent of all adjacent
property owners shall not stop Board of Adjustment from considering the
application request or acting on the application. The Board of Adjustment,
after legal publication, notice, and public hearing according to Subsubsection
165.03.04.A, General Provisions shall act on the conditional use permit.
         v.   Criteria for Review. The Board of Adjustment shall review and act
upon the request based on the following established criteria and conformance
with applicable regulations in this Zoning Ordinance:
            a.   Will be in harmony with the general purpose, goals, objectives
and standards of the Comprehensive Plan and this Zoning Ordinance;
            b.   Will not have a substantial, undue, or adverse effect upon
adjacent property, the character of the neighborhood, traffic conditions,
parking, utility facilities, and other matters affecting the public health,
safety and general welfare;
            c.   Will be constructed, arranged, or operated so as not to
dominate the immediate vicinity or to interfere with the development and use of
neighboring property in accordance with the applicable district regulations;
            d.   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, parking spaces, police and fire protection,
drainage structures, refuse disposal, water and sewers, and schools; or that
the persons or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use
will provide adequately for such services;
            e.   Will not result in the destruction, loss, or damage of any
natural, scenic, or historic feature of significant importance;
            f.   Complies with all additional standards imposed on it by the
provisions of the district in which such conditional use may be authorized.
         vi.   Scope of Board of Adjustment’s Approval. The Board of Adjustment
may, at its discretion, apply a conditional use permit to a specific owner or
applicant. The Board of Adjustment may establish special site development or
operational regulations as a condition for approval of a conditional use
permit. The Board of Adjustment shall not grant a conditional use permit for
any home occupation/home-based business which is otherwise prohibited under
this Zoning Ordinance.
         vii.   Decision. The final decision as to approve, approve with
conditions, or deny a conditional use application lies with the Board of
Adjustment by a concurring vote of a majority of all the members, whether
present or not. Such decision may be appealed to District Court within 30 days.
Failure of the Board of Adjustment to act within 30 days, or such period of
time as may be agreed to by the applicant, shall be deemed a denial of the
application.
         viii.   Lapse and Revocation of Permit. A conditional use permit shall
become void 180 days after its effective date if the applicant has not carried
out development or occupancy during that period, or sooner if so conditioned by
the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment may revoke a conditional use
permit should the operation of the use subject to such permit violate the
conditions under which the permit was granted.
         ix.   Previously Approved Permits. Any conditional use approved under
regulations in effect before the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance shall
be considered to have a valid conditional use permit, subject to requirements
imposed at the time of its approval.
      J.   Floodplain. Applications for development in the floodplain as
determined by FEMA Flood Insurance Maps shall follow the procedure in
Subsection 165.06.20, Floodplain Overlay District.
      K.   Map and Text Amendments. Amendments to the Official Zoning Map shall
identify the area affected by legal description and identify the zoning
district as the same existed and the new district designation applicable to
said property. A certified copy of the amendatory ordinance, however, shall not
repeal or reenact said map, but only amend it. A text amendment to this Zoning
Ordinance to implement the Comprehensive Plan, conform to state or federal
legal requirements, address changing or changed conditions, or otherwise
advance the public health, safety, and welfare of the City of Dyersville.
         i.   Administration. The Council may from time to time, on its own
motion or petition, amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal by ordinance
the boundaries of districts or text regulations, or restrictions established in
this Zoning Ordinance. Any proposed amendments, supplement, change,
modification, or repeal shall be filed with the City Clerk.
         ii.   Application. Such proposed amendment, supplement, modification
or change shall be filed with the Administrator in such form and contain such
information as shall be prescribed from time to time by the Administrator but
shall, in all instances, contain at least the following:
            a.   The applicant's name, address, and interest in the subject
property;
            b.   Owner, address, and legal description of the property (shall
be verified with a certified copy of the last deed or document of record from
the Dubuque or Delaware County Register of Deed’s Office);
            c.   A description of the reason for the rezoning application and
the nature and operating characteristics of the proposed use; and
            d.   Any graphic information, including site plans, elevations,
other drawings, or other materials determined by the Administrator to be
necessary to describe the proposed use to approving agencies.
         iii.   Map Amendment Petition. When the proposed map amendment,
supplement, modification, or change is by petition it shall be duly signed by
the owners of fifty percent (50%) of all real estate included within the
boundaries of the area petitioned for change and in addition, be duly signed by
the owners of fifty percent (50%) of the area of all real estate lying outside
of said tract, but within two hundred fifty (250) feet of the boundaries
thereof, intervening streets and alleys not to be included in computing such
two hundred fifty (250) feet. The Council shall refer the proposed amendment,
supplement, change, modification or repeal to the Commission for its
recommendations and report.
         iv.   Referral. The Administrator shall refer the application to the
Commission and other affected public or private utilities by the Administrator
within thirty (30) days following the submission of the application, unless the
applicant shall agree to some later time.
         v.   Commission Public Hearing. The Commission, after legal
publication, notice, and a public hearing according to Subsubsection
165.03.04.A, General Provisions. For a map amendment, the Administrator shall
attempt to notify adjacent property owners within 200 feet of the property in
question by mail prior to the Commission meeting. Failure to notify 100 percent
of all adjacent property owners shall not stop the Commission from considering
the application request or acting on the application.
         vi.   Commission Report. Following such public hearing, the Commission
shall recommend action to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
application. A vote either for or against an amendment by a majority of all
Commission members shall constitute a recommendation to the City Council. If
the Commission makes no report within thirty (30) days from the hearing, unless
requesting additional information from the applicant or Administrator, it shall
be considered to have made a report approving the proposed amendment,
supplement, or modification.
         vii.   City Council Public Hearing. After the recommendations and the
report of the Commission have been filed, the Council shall before enacting any
proposed amendment, supplement, change, modification, or repeal, hold a public
hearing in relation thereto, after legal publication, notice, and a public
hearing according to Subsubsection 165.03.04.A, General Provisions.
         viii.   Council Vote. Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the
report of the Commission, the Council shall approve, approve with conditions,
or deny the application. If the Commission recommends against, or if a protest
against such proposed amendment, supplement, change, modification, or repeal is
presented in writing to the Clerk, duly signed by the owners of twenty percent
(20%) or more either of the area of the lots included in such proposed change,
or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) or more of the property which is
located within two hundred (200) feet of the exterior boundaries of the
property for which the change or repeal is proposed, the change or repeal shall
not become effective except by the favorable vote of at least three-fourths of
all the members of the council.
         ix.   Renewal after Map Amendment Denial. Whenever a petition for an
amendment, supplement, modification, or change of the zoning map herein
contained, or subsequently established, shall have been denied by the Council,
then no new petition covering the same property, or the same property and
additional property, shall be filed with or considered by the Council until one
year shall have elapsed from the date of the filing of the first petition.
         x.   Approval Criteria. The Commission may recommend approval, and
City Council may grant the approval of a map or text amendment request if it is
demonstrated that:
            a.   The proposed amendment is preferable to the existing zoning or
text in terms of its likelihood of advancing the goals, objectives, and
policies of the Comprehensive Plan or another adopted land use or area plan,
including but not limited to redevelopment plans;
            b.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the future land use
map of the Comprehensive Plan (a future land use map amendment may be processed
concurrently with the zone change);
            c.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the implementation
of existing or pending plans for providing streets, water and wastewater, other
utilities, and the delivery of public services to the area in which the parcel
proposed for a zone change is located;
            d.   The range of uses and the character of development that is
allowed by the proposed amendment will be compatible with the properties in the
immediate vicinity of the parcel proposed for a zone change, and the parcel
proposed for a zone change has sufficient dimensions to accommodate reasonable
development that complies with the requirements of this Zoning Ordinance,
including parking and buffering requirements;
            e.   The pace of development and/or the amount of vacant land
currently zoned for comparable development in the vicinity suggests a need for
the proposed rezoning to ensure an appropriate inventory of land to maintain a
competitive land market that promote economic development; and
            f.   Is consistent with the stated purposes of this Zoning
Ordinance.
      L.   Interpretations. The Administrator may render interpretations of any
provision of this Zoning Ordinance, or any rule or regulation issued pursuant
to it, including interpretations as to whether a use that is not listed is a
subcategory of or substantially similar to an allowed, limited, or conditional
use. All questions of interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented
to the Administrator and shall be subsequently presented to the Board of
Adjustment only on appeal from the decision of the Administrator.
         i.   Administration. The Administrator shall review, evaluate, and act
upon all applications for interpretations submitted pursuant to this
Subsection.
         ii.   Application. A request for interpretation of any provision of
this Zoning Ordinance shall be submitted in writing to the Administrator. It
shall set out the specific provision or provisions to be interpreted, the facts
of the specific situation giving rise to the request for an interpretation, and
the precise interpretation claimed by the applicant to be correct. Before the
rendering of any interpretation, the Administrator may require further facts
and information as are, in the Administrator’s judgment, necessary to a
meaningful interpretation of the provision in question.
         iii.   Approval Criteria. The interpretation shall be based on the
plain and ordinary meaning of the terms that are subject to the application for
an interpretation as set out in Webster’s Third New International Dictionary or
other current and authoritative dictionaries, including the context and intent
of the applicable Ordinance section as related to the Comprehensive Plan.
         iv.   Decision. Within fifteen (15) working days following the receipt
of a completed request or application for interpretation, the Administrator
shall inform the applicant in writing of the interpretation. The Administrator
may consult with the City Attorney or other officials, departments, or agencies
in drafting the interpretation. The Administrator shall state the specific
precedent, reasons, and analysis upon which such interpretation is based and
shall be communicated to the applicant in writing. For use interpretations, the
Administrator shall reference Subsection 165.05.12, Land Uses.
         v.   Record. The Administrator shall keep a record of all
interpretations issued as a record of an interpretation of the subject
Ordinance Subsection.
      M.   Appeals. Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any
person aggrieved, or by any officer, department, or board of the City affected
by any decision of the Council, Commission, or Administrator.
         i.   Administration. The Board of Adjustment shall review, evaluate,
and act upon all applications for appeals submitted pursuant to this
Subsection.
         ii.   Application. An appeal shall be filed with the Administrator in
such form and contain such information as shall be prescribed from time to time
by the Administrator. An application for an appeal shall be taken within thirty
(30) days after the action the applicant is appealing.
         iii.   Procedures. Such appeal application shall be taken within ten
(10) working days of filing with the Administrator, and with the Board of
Adjustment, a notice of appeal specifying the ground thereof. The Administrator
shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from is taken.
         iv.   Stay of Proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Council certifies to the
Board, after notice of appeal has been filed, that by reason of the facts
stated in the certificate a stay would, in their opinion, cause imminent peril
to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise
than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board, or by a court
of record on application on notice to the Council, and on due cause shown.
         v.   Public Hearing. The Administrator shall attempt to notify
adjacent property owners within 200 feet of the property in question by mail
prior to the Board of Adjustment meeting. Failure to notify 100 percent of all
adjacent property owners shall not stop Board of Adjustment from considering
the application request or acting on the application. The Board shall hold a
public hearing after legal publication, notice, and a public hearing according
to Subsubsection 165.03.04 A, General Procedures and act on the application.
         vi.   Board Vote. Within thirty (30) days following the close of the
public hearing, the Board of Adjustment shall render a decision on the appeal
based on the merits of the appeal based on their findings of fact and
deliberations. Such decision may reverse, affirm, or modify, in whole or in
part, the action from which the appeal is taken. Within seven (7) days of such
decision, or the expiration of such period, notice of such decision or failure
to act shall be mailed by the Administrator to all parties entitled to such
notice. Decisions by the Board of Adjustments may be appealed to District
Court.
         vii.   Approval Criteria. The criteria used by the Board of Adjustment
in their decision may include such order or determination as, in the opinion of
the Board of Adjustment, is proper to be made on the premises. To that end, the
Board of Adjustment shall have the same powers and be subject to the same
standards and limitations as the Administrator, or other City official,
department, or agency, with respect to the action being appealed.
      N.   Variance. The variance procedure allows relief from the strict
application of this Zoning Ordinance where by reason of exceptional narrowness,
shallowness, or shape of a specific piece of property at the time of enactment
of the zoning regulations; or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions
or other extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of
property, such strict application would result in peculiar and exceptional
practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon the owner of
such property.
         i.   Administration. The Board of Adjustment shall only have the
authority to grant variances from the zoning regulations not reviewed by other
bodies. Examples not within the jurisdiction of the Board include, but are not
limited to, building code variances, variances for non-conformities, variances
to State and Federal law, and variances that would allow a use in a district
which the use is prohibited.
         ii.   Application. An application for a variance may be filed by the
owner of, or any other person having a contractual interest in, the subject
property according to the procedures below. Applications for a variance shall
be submitted to the Administrator. The application shall contain the following
information:
            a.   The applicant’s name, address, and interest in the subject
property;
            b.   The name and address of the owner, if different than the
applicant, and the owner’s signed consent to the application filing;
            c.   The street address, common location, and legal description of
the subject property;
            d.   The present use and zoning classification of the subject
property;
            e.   A site plan, drawn to a scale on one or more sheets,
illustrating existing structures and the proposed construction, reconstruction,
remodeling, alteration or moving, and including dimensions of property lines,
dimensions of building footprints, setback dimensions, building heights, and
area of impervious surfaces;
            f.   A written statement and evidence supporting the nature and
reason for the requested variance, referencing the approval criteria below in
item 165.03.04.N.v; and
            g.   Other information and documentation as the Administrator may
deem necessary and appropriate to a full and proper consideration and
disposition of the application.
         iii.   Public Hearing. Upon receipt of a completed application, the
Administrator shall refer it to the Board of Adjustment for hearing and
decision. The Administrator shall attempt to notify adjacent property owners
within 200 feet of the property in question by mail prior to the Board of
Adjustment meeting. Failure to notify 100 percent of all adjacent property
owners shall not stop Board of Adjustment from considering the application
request or acting on the application. The Board shall hold a public hearing
after legal publication, notice, and a public hearing according to
Subsubsection 165.03.04.A, General Provisions and act on the application.
         iv.   Board Vote. The Board of Adjustment shall make findings that the
requirements of this section have been met by the applicant for a variance.
            a.   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with these
regulations. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of
the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of
these regulations and punishable under Section 165.12, Violations, Penalties,
and Enforcement of these regulations.
            b.   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of these regulations in
the district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of these regulations in said district.
            c.   No non-conforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or
buildings in the same district and no permitted or non-conforming use of lands,
structures, or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for the
issuance of a variance.
            d.   Failure of the Board of Adjustment to act within thirty (30)
days shall be deemed a denial of the variance.
            e.   The council may provide for its review of variances granted by
the Board of Adjustment before their effective date. The Council may remand a
decision to grant a variance to the Board of Adjustment for further study. The
effective date of the variance is delayed for thirty (30) days from the date of
the remand.
         v.   Approval Criteria. No such variance shall be authorized by the
Board unless it finds that:
            a.   Strict application of the zoning ordinance will produce undue
hardship and would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same district under the terms of this Zoning Ordinance;
            b.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and in the same vicinity;
            c.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance;
            d.   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice. Failure to yield a reasonable
return may be shown by proof that the owner has been deprived of all reasonable
beneficial or productive use of the land in question. All beneficial use is
said to have been lost where the land is not suitable for any use permitted by
this Zoning Ordinance;
            e.   The condition or situation of the property concerned is not of
so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably practicable a general
regulation to be adopted as an amendment to this Zoning Ordinance; and
            f.   The granting of the variance will not cause substantial
detriment to the public good and will not substantially impair the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      O.   Sign Permit. A sign permit is required for all permitted signs as
set out in Section 165.10, Sign Regulations.
         i.   Administration. The Administrator shall review, evaluate, and act
upon all applications for a sign permit submitted pursuant to this Subsection.
         ii.   Application. The applicant shall submit a sign permit
application to the Administrator, who first will review the proposed sign in
relation to the dimensional, locational and numerical requirements of this
section. An application for a sign permit shall be submitted with the following
information:
            a.   The applicant’s name, address, and interest in the subject
property;
            b.   The name and address of the owner, if different than the
applicant, and the owner’s signed consent to the application filing;
            c.   The street address and common location of the subject
property;
            d.   Drawings showing the location of the sign and location and
sizes of all other existing signs on the same premises, including the property
lines;
            e.   Information stating the dimensions, supports, sizes,
materials, and type of the sign being proposed; and
            f.   Other information or documentation as the Administrator may
deem necessary or appropriate to a full and proper consideration and
disposition of the particular application.
         iii.   Administrator Action. Within thirty (30) days of sign permit
application submittal, the Administrator shall act on the submittal by
approving or denying the application. If the application is not acted upon by
the Administrator within thirty (30) days, the application shall be deemed
approved. If the application is denied, then the reasons for the denial shall
be communicated to the applicant in writing along with any recommendations.
         iv.   Appeal. Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the
Administrator to approve or disapprove a sign permit, as provided by this
title, may appeal such decision to the Board of Adjustment as provided by
Subsubsection 165.03.04.M, Appeals.
165.04   DEFINITIONS
   165.04.01.   Purpose. For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and
words are hereby defined. Where terms are not specifically defined below or in
the section where occurring, their ordinarily accepted meaning according to the
most recent version of Merriam-Webster Dictionary and implied by their context
shall apply.
   165.04.02.   Construction of Language.
      A.   Headings. Section and subsection headings contained herein are
provided for illustrative purposes only and shall not be deemed to limit,
govern, modify, or otherwise affect the scope, meaning, or intent of any
provision of this Zoning Ordinance.
      B.   Illustrations. In the case of any real or apparent conflict between
the text of this Zoning Ordinance and any illustration explaining the text, the
text shall apply.
      C.   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, the
following conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
         i.   “And” indicates that all connected items or provisions apply.
         ii.    “Or” indicates that the connected items or provisions may apply
singly or in any combination.
         iii.    “Either...or” indicates that the connected items or provisions
shall apply singly but not in combination.
         iv.    “Shall” indicates a mandatory requirement. “May indicates a
permissive or selective requirement.
         v.    “Tenses and numbers” indicate the following: words used in the
present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular include the
plural, and the plural the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the
contrary. The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
      D.   Referenced Agencies. Unless otherwise indicated, all public
officials, bodies, and agencies referred to in this chapter are those of the
City of Dyersville.
   165.04.03.   Definition of Terms.
      A.   
         i.   “Accessory use or structure” means a use or structure subordinate
to the principal use of the building on the lot and serving a purpose
customarily incidental to the use of the principal building. For accessory uses
not stated in Subsection 165.05.15, Accessory and Temporary Uses or Subsection
165.09.12, Accessory Uses, “customarily incidental shall be determined by the
criteria in Subsubsection 165.05.14.J, Uses that are not Listed.
         ii.    “Accessory dwelling units” means a residential dwelling unit,
but not a mobile home, located on the same lot as a single-family dwelling
unit, either within the same building as the single-family dwelling unit or in
a detached building. The unit has a separate entryway, kitchen, and bathroom
facilities.
165.04.03.01 Accessory Dwelling Unit Illustrative Examples
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1864.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1862.png]
 
         iii.    “Actuarial rates” or “risk premium rates” are those rates
established by the Administrator pursuant to individual community studies and
investigations which are undertaken to provide flood insurance in accordance
with 42 U.S.C. 4014 and the accepted actuarial principles. Actuarial rates
include provisions for operating costs and allowances.
         iv.    “Administration” means governmental offices providing
administrative, clerical, or public contact services that deal directly with
the citizen, together with incidental storage and maintenance of necessary
vehicles. Typical uses include Federal, State, County, and City offices.
         v.    “Agriculture” means the use of land for purposes of growing the
usual farm products, including vegetables, fruit, trees, and grains; pasturage;
dairying; animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses for
treating or storing the produce, provided that the operation of such accessory
uses is secondary to that of the regular agricultural activities. This is not
to be construed as community gardens or urban farming. This may include the
residence of owners, occupants, or employees who live on the property.
         vi.    “Airport” means any area of land or water designated, set
aside, used, or intended for use, for the landing and take-off of aircraft, and
any appurtenant areas designated, set aside, used, or intended for use, for
airport buildings or other airport facilities, rights-of-way, or approach
zones, together with all airport buildings and facilities located thereon.
         vii.    “Alcoholic Beverage Sales” means establishments or places of
business engaged primarily in retail sale for off-premises consumption of
alcoholic beverages. Typical uses include liquor stores, bottle shops, or any
licensed sales of liquor, beer or wine for off-site consumption.
         viii.    “Alley” means an unnamed public or private right-of-way less
than 22 feet wide for the use of vehicles affording a secondary means of access
to abutting property.
         ix.   “Animal production” means the use of land primarily for raising
of animals or production of animal products, such as eggs or dairy products, on
an agricultural or commercial basis on a site which is also used for crop
production or where grazing of natural vegetation is the major feed source; or
the raising of animals for recreational use. Typical uses include grazing,
ranching, dairy farming, and poultry farming.
         x.    “Animal raising, personal” means premises where agricultural
animals are fed or kept for personal use and for agriculturally related
projects by the owner or occupant of the premises. For this use, “agricultural
animals” is limited to the following domesticated animals: sheep, goats,
chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, ostriches, emus, rheas, and guinea fowl.
         xi.    “Animal shelter” means an indoor or outdoor facility used to
house or contain stray, homeless, abandoned, or unwanted animals and that is
owned, operated, or maintained by a public body, an established humane society,
animal welfare society, society for the prevention of cruelty to animals, or
other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare, protection, and humane
treatment of animals.
         xii.    “Annexation” means the act or process of adding land to a
governmental unit, usually an incorporated place, by an ordinance, a court
order, or other legal action.
         xiii.    “Apartment” means a room or suite of rooms, with toilet and
culinary accommodations, used or designed for use as a single housekeeping
unit, located in a building containing two or more such rooms or suites, or in
a building devoted primarily to nonresidential use.
         xiv.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same
parcel of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of
which is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
         xv.   “Automobile rental or sales” means the use of any building or
portion thereof, or other premises or portion thereof, for the display, sale,
rental, or lease of new or used motor vehicles. Any warranty repair work and
other repair service is conducted as an accessory use within an enclosed
building.
         xvi.    “Automobile repair services” means any building, structure,
improvements, or land used for the repair and maintenance of automobiles,
motorcycles, trucks, trailers, or similar vehicles including but not limited to
body, fender, muffler, or upholstery work, oil change and lubrication,
painting, tire service, and sales.
      B.   
         i.   “Base flood” means the flood having one (1) percent chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. (Also commonly referred to as the
“100-year flood.”)
         ii.   “Base flood evaluation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters
would reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
         iii.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its
floor or lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see
“lowest floor.”
         iv.   “Beginning of construction” means the beginning of site work and
grading.
         v.   “Board” means the Board of Adjustment.
         vi.   “Boarding Home” means a building use for rental to three or more
persons not related to the owner or lessee where supervision or assistance with
activities of daily living is provided to such persons. A boarding home does
not include a facility, home, or program otherwise subject to licensure or
regulation by the Iowa Department of Human Services, Department of Inspections
and Appeals, or department of public health.
         vii.   “Broadcasting center” means an establishment containing one or
more broadcasting studios for over-the-air, cable or satellite delivery of
radio or television programs, or studios for the audio or video recording or
filming of musical performances, radio or television pro-grams or motion
pictures. This term does not include a transmission tower.
         viii.   “Building” means a structure having a roof supported by
columns or walls for shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, animals or
chattels. When separated by division walls from the ground up without openings,
each portion of such structure shall be deemed a separate building.
         ix.    “Building coverage” The ratio of the total of areas taken on a
horizontal plane at the main grade level of the principal building and all
accessory buildings exclusive of uncovered porches, terraces, and steps to the
total lot area. All dimensions shall be measured between the exterior faces of
walls.
         x.   “Building, height of” means the vertical distance from the
average, natural grade at the building line, to the highest point of the coping
of flat roof, or to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable,
hip, and gambrel roofs.
165.04.03.01 Building Height Illustrative Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1866.png]
 
         xi.    “Building, principal” means a non-accessory building in which a
principal use of the lot on which it is located is conducted.
         xii.   “Building wall” means the wall of the principal building
forming a part of the main structure. The foundation walls of unenclosed
porches or piazzas, steps, walks and retaining wall or similar structure shall
not be considered as building walls under the provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance.
         xiii.    “Bulk station” means distributing stations commonly known as
bulk or tank stations used for the storage and distribution of flammable
liquids or liquefied petroleum products.
      C.   
         i.   “Campground” means facilities providing camping or parking areas
and incidental services for travelers in recreational vehicles or tents, which
accommodate each guest or visitor for no more than seven (7) consecutive days
during any one-month period.
         ii.    “Car wash” Mechanical facilities for the washing or waxing of
private automobiles, light trucks and vans, but not commercial fleets, as an
accessory use to an automobile service station.
         iii.   “Carport” means space for the housing or storage of motor
vehicles and enclosed on not more than two sides by walls, and attached to the
principal building.
         iv.    “Cemetery” means land used or intended to be used for the
burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbariums,
crematoria, mausoleums, and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and
within the boundary of such cemetery.
         v.    “Channel” means a natural or artificial watercourse of
perceptible extent, with a definite bed and banks to confine and conduct
continuously or periodically flowing water. “Channel flow” is that water which
is flowing within the limits of a defined channel.
         vi.    “Child care center” means a facility providing child care or
preschool services for seven or more children, except when the facility is
registered as a child development home. See Chapter 237A, Child Care
Facilities, Iowa Code.
         vii.    “Child care home” means a person or program providing child
care to five or fewer children at any one time that is not registered to
provide child care under Chapter 237A, Child Care Facilities, Iowa Code.
         viii.    “Child development home” means a person or program registered
under Section 237A.3A, Child Development Homes, Chapter 237A, Child Care
Facilities, Iowa Code, who may provide child care to six or more children at
any one time.
         ix.    “City” means the City of Dyersville, Iowa.
         x.    “Commercial feedlots/operations” means the use of a site for the
confined feeding or holding of livestock or poultry within buildings, lots,
pens, or other close quarters which are not used for crop production or where
grazing of natural vegetation is not the major feed source.
         xi.    “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the
City of Dyersville.
         xii.    “Community building” means a facility maintained by a public
agency or by a not-for-profit community or neighborhood association primarily
for social, recreational, cultural, or educational needs of the community or
neighborhood.
         xiii.    “Community Garden” means a private or public lot under one
acre for cultivation of fruits, flowers, vegetables, or ornamental plants by
more than one person or family.
         xiv.   “Composting Facility” means a site on which decomposition
processes are used on solid waste (including leaves, grass, manures, and
nonmeat food production wastes received from residential, commercial,
industrial non-hazardous, and community sources, but not including bio-solids)
to produce compost. Composting facilities do not include compost bins that are
used to compost household waste and landscaping waste on and for an individual
residential lot.
         xv.    “Comprehensive Plan” means the duly adopted Comprehensive
Development Plan of the City of Dyersville.
         xvi.    “Conditional use” means a use with operating and/or physical
characteristics different from uses permitted by right in a given zoning
district which may, nonetheless, be compatible with those uses under special
conditions and with adequate public review. Conditional uses are allowed in a
zoning district only at the discretion of and with the explicit permission of
the Board of Adjustment. Conditional uses are considered identical to special
use permits/special exception uses.
         xvii.    “Construction sales and service” means establishments or
places of business primarily engaged in the retail or wholesale sale, from the
premises, of materials used in the construction of buildings or other
structures other than retail sale of paint, fixtures, and hardware. This use
type excludes those uses classified under automotive and equipment services and
heavy retail. Typical uses include building materials sales or tool and
equipment rental or sales.
         xviii.    “Construction yard” means establishments housing facilities
of businesses primarily engaged in construction activities, including
incidental storage of materials and equipment on lots other than construction
sites. Typical uses are building contractor’s yards.
         xix.    “Convalescent home” means a building or premises in or on
which care is provided for four or more invalid, infirm, aged, convalescent, or
physically disabled or injured persons, not including insane or other mental
cases, inebriate, or contagious cases. Nursing homes are “convalescent homes.”
         xx.    “Crawl space” means any open space located within the
foundation of a structure and under the lowest habitable floor of said
structure, not to exceed three and one-half feet in height.
      D.   
         i.   “Density, gross” means the numerical value obtained by dividing
the total number of dwelling units in a development by the gross area of the
tract of land (in acres) within a development. This would include all
nonresidential land uses and private streets of the development, as well as
rights-of-way of dedicated streets; the result being the number of dwelling
units per gross acre of land.
         ii.    “Density, net” means the numerical value obtained by dividing
the total number of dwelling units in a development by the area of the actual
tract of land (in acres) upon which the dwelling units are proposed to be
located and including common open space and associated recreational facilities
within the area; the result being the number of dwelling units per net
residential acre of land. Net density calculations exclude rights-of-way of
publicly dedicated streets and private streets.
         iii.    “Development” means any manmade change to improved or
unimproved real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other
structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling
operations, or storage of equipment or materials. “Development does not include
“minor projects” or “routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities”
as defined in this section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and
similar practices that do not involve filling or grading.
         iv.    “District” means a section or sections of the City within which
the regulations governing the use of buildings and premises, or the height and
area of buildings and premises, are uniform.
         v.    “Driveway” means a private accessway, primarily for vehicles,
leading from a street to a dwelling unit, parking lot, parking garage, or
loading area.
         vi.    “Dwelling” means any building, or portion thereof, which is
designed or used exclusively for residential purposes.
         vii.    “Dwelling unit” A single unit providing complete, independent
living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
         viii.   “Dwelling, single-family” A building consisting of a single
dwelling unit only.
         ix.   ”Dwelling, Single family attached” means three or more dwelling
units in a single structure or attached structures, each of which could have a
single lot, which are separated from each other by a dividing vertical wall.
Such units may be side-by-side, back-to-back, or both. This a commonly known as
a townhome or townhouse.
165.04.03.01 Single-Family Attached Dwelling Illustrative Examples
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1870.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1868.png]
 
 
         x.    “Dwelling, Single family detached” means a residential structure
designed to house a single-family unit, with private outside entrance, but
without common walls between the dwelling units.
165.04.03.01 Single-Family Detached Dwelling Illustrative Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1872.png]
 
         xi.    “Dwelling, two-family” means a dwelling designed for two
dwelling units, or housekeeping units, living independently of each other, each
of which could have a single lot which are separated from each other by a
dividing wall. Such units may be side-by-side, back-to-back, or over-under a
second story and/or basement.
165.04.03.01 Two-Family Dwelling Illustrative Examples
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1876.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1874.png]
 
          xii.    “Dwelling, multi-family” means a dwelling designed for more
than two dwelling units, each independent of each other. Dwelling units are
separated by interior walls and/or floors. This does not include boarding
homes, single-family attached, or two-family dwellings.
165.04.03.01 Multi-Family Dwelling Illustrative Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1878.png]
 
      E.   
         i.   “Education (primary)” means a public, private, or parochial
school offering instruction at the elementary school level in the branches of
learning and study required to be taught in schools within the State of Iowa.
         ii.   “Education (secondary)” means a public, private, or parochial
school offering instruction at the junior high or high school level in the
branches of learning and study required to be taught in the schools of the
State of Iowa.
         iii.   “Education (university)” means a public, private, or parochial
school offering instruction above the high school level, often located on a
campus.
         iv.   “Electrical substation” means a part of an electrical
generation, transmission, and distribution system where voltage is transformed
from high to low, or the reverse; the type of current is changed; current is
gathered from distributed power generation facilities, such as wind turbines or
photovoltaic panels; current is switched to back-up lines; or circuits are
parallelized in case of failure.
         v.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
            a.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions
of (165.06.20(F)(2)(d)(i) of this ordinance, and
            b.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled,
etc.) and used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access,
parking or storage, and
            c.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater,
furnace, electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at
least one (1) foot above the base flood elevation, and
            d.   The enclosed area is not a “basement” as defined in this
section.
         vi.   “Encroachment” means the advancement of a structure or
improvements beyond established limits, lot lines, easements, or service areas.
         vii.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the
“start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the first
floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
         viii.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a
factory-built home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
         ix.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home part or subdivision”
means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
         x.   “Extraction” means the business enterprise of excavation and
removal of stone, sand, gravel, soil, or similar earthen materials from a site,
whether the intent is to increase the utility and values of the site or to use
the materials for landfilling on another site.
      F.   
         i.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for
residential use which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated,
formed or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly
and installation, on a building site. For the purpose of this ordinance
factory-built homes include mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular
homes; and also include “recreational vehicles” which are placed on a site for
greater than 180 consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for
highway use.
         ii.   “Factory-built home or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
         iii.   “Family home” means a community-based residential home or a
child foster care facility to provide room and board, personal care,
habilitation services and supervision in a family environment exclusively for
not more than eight (8) developmental disability or brain injury and any
necessary support personnel as permitted and as limited by the Code of Iowa,
414.22. This includes elder group homes.
         iv.   “Five hundred (500) year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of
which has a two-tenths (0.2) percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year or which, on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once
every five hundred (500) years.
         v.    “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of
streams or rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from
any source.
         vi.    “Flood elevation determinations” (Repealed by Ordinance No. 839
– Oct. 21 Supp.)
         vii.    “Flood insurance rate map (FIRM)” means the official map
prepared as part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study
which delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones
applicable to the community.
         viii.    “Flood insurance study (FIS)” means the report published by
FEMA for a community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map
(s). The study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and
water surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
         ix.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water as a result of a flood.
         x.    “Flood plain management” means an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and promoting wise use of
floodplains, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing, and flood plain management regulations.
         xi.    “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and
nonstructural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including
utility and sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to
such structures.
         xii.    “Flood protection system” (Repealed by Ordinance No. 839 –
Oct. 21 Supp.)
         xiii.    “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those
portions of the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably
required to carry and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement
of flood flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water
surface elevation of the base flood by more than one (1) foot.
         xiv.    “Floodway Fringe” means those portions of the special flood
hazard area outside the floodway.
         xv.    “Floor area ratio” means the quotient of gross floor area
divided by gross lot area.
         xvi.    “Food services” means establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in the retail sale of food and household products for home
consumption. Food sales establishments may include the sale of non-food items.
However, the sales of non-food items may account for no more than the lesser of
25% of the sales area or 10,000 square feet of the food sales establishment.
Typical uses include groceries, delicatessens, meat markets, retail bakeries,
and candy shops.
         xvii.    “Frontage” means all the property on one side of a street
between two intersecting streets measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
         xviii.    “Funeral service” means establishments engaged in
undertaking services such as crematoriums, preparing the human dead for burial,
and arranging and managing funerals. Typical uses include funeral homes or
mortuaries.
      G.   
         i.   “Garage, private” means an attached or detached accessory
building not over one story or twenty feet in height used for parking or
storage of vehicles as may be required in connection with the permitted use of
the principal building. However, the storage of one commercial vehicle not
exceeding three-fourths ton may be permitted.
         ii.   “Garage, public” means a building or portion of a building in
which motor vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired, stored, or kept for
remuneration, hire or sale.
         iii.    “Gas station” means a building or portion of a building used
chiefly in connection with tanks, pumps, and other appliances, for supplying
motor vehicles with gasoline, oil, compressed air, water, electrical charging,
and other fuel supplies, but not for the purpose of making repairs. When the
dispensing, sale, or offering for sale of motor vehicle fuel at retail is
incidental to the conduct of a public garage, the premises shall be classified
as a public garage.
         iv.    “General office” means use of a site for business,
professional, or administrative offices who may invite clients from both local
and regional areas. Typical uses include real estate, insurance, management,
travel, telemarketing, corporate, or other business offices; organization and
association offices; or professional offices.
         v.   “General retail” means commercial and retail uses that do not
include regular outside storage or sales. The phrase "commercial retail"
includes uses that are comparable, but not limited to the following:
            a.   Furniture and home furnishings stores;
            b.   Electronics and appliance stores;
            c.   Paint and wallpaper stores;
            d.   Health and personal care stores;
            e.   Clothing and clothing accessory stores;
            f.   Sporting goods, hobby, book, and music stores;
            g.   General merchandise stores; and
            h.   Miscellaneous store retailers.
         vi.    “General services” means establishments primarily engaged in
the provision of services to customers by appointment or drop in basis, not
including personal services. These uses may require additional on-site storage
for inventory or vehicles. Typical uses include, but are not limited to,
television studios, telecommunication service centers, telegraph service
offices, film and sound recording facilities, office equipment and supply
firms, small business machine repair shops, hotel equipment and supply firms,
messenger and delivery services, custodial or maintenance services, convenience
printing and copying, automated banking machines, appliance repair shops, watch
or jewelry repair shops, or musical instrument repair shops.
         vii.   “Grade” means the average level of the finished surface of the
ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building:
            a.   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the
elevation of the regularly established sidewalks grade at the center of the
wall adjoining the street;
            b.   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
average of the elevation of the regularly established sidewalk grades at the
center of all walls adjoining the street;
            c.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of
the buildings.
         viii.   “Grain elevator” means a tall building used to store grain and
containing equipment for conveying grain to the top of a storage bin or bins.
         ix.    “Gross Floor Area” means the sum of the horizontal areas of the
habitable stories of a building, measured from the exterior faces of exterior
walls, or in the case of a common wall separating two buildings, from the
centerline of such common wall. Excludes basements, attics, unenclosed porches,
balconies, and decks. Enclosed porches, balconies, and decks shall be included
in the calculation of gross floor area.
         x.    “Group care” means a government-licensed or approved facility
which provides for resident care, short or long-term. Group care facilities
include facilities which provide services in accordance with individual needs
for the:
            a.   Adaptation to living with, or rehabilitation from, the
handicaps of physical disability;
            b.   Adaptation to living with, or rehabilitation from, the
handicaps of emotional or mental disorder; or developmental disabilities;
            c.   Rehabilitation from the effects of drug or alcohol abuse;
            d.   Supervision while under a program alternative to imprisonment,
including but not limited to pre-release, work-release, and probationary
programs; or
            e.   Others who require direct adult supervision.
         xi.    “Group home” means a facility licensed by the State of Iowa in
which at least three (3) but no more than eight (8) persons, not including
resident managers or house parents, who are unrelated by blood, marriage or
adoption, reside while receiving therapy, training, living assistance, or
counseling for the purpose of adaptation to living with or rehabilitation from
a physical or mental disability as defined by the relevant provisions of the
Code of Iowa or by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988. A minimum distance
of five hundred feet (500') is required between each group home.
         xii.    “Group residential” means the use of a site for a residence by
more than four (4) unrelated persons, not defined as a family, on a weekly or
longer basis. Typical uses would include fraternities, sororities or college
dormitories.
      H.   
         i.   “Heavy industry” means enterprises involved in the basic
processing and manufacturing of products, predominately from raw materials,
with noticeable noise, odor, vibration, or air pollution effects across
property lines; or a use or process engaged in the storage of or processes
involving potentially or actually hazardous, explosive, flammable, radioactive,
or other commonly recognized hazardous materials. Outdoor storage is permitted
with proper screening. Examples include, but are not limited to:
            a.   Coal cleaning plants with thermal dryers;
            b.   Coke oven batteries;
            c.   Carbon black plants (furnace process);
            d.   Petroleum refineries;
            e.   Petroleum storage and transfer units (except retail gasoline
stations) and bulk fuel dealers;
            f.   Facilities used in the primary or secondary production of
metals (e.g., primary zinc, copper, or lead smelters; primary aluminum ore
reduction plants; iron and steel mills; sintering plants; secondary metal
production plants; and blacksmith shops);
            g.   Portland cement plants (not temporary batch plants);
            h.   Sawmills and pulp mills;
            i.   Mineral plants;
            j.   Fossil fuel combustion (boilers or electricity generation)
totaling more than 250 million BTUs per hour of heat input;
            k.   Fabrication of vehicles, manufacturing equipment, durable
goods, or pre-fabricated homes or home components;
            l.   Drycleaner processing plants;
            m.   Glass and plastic product manufacturing;
            n.   Hot mix asphalt plants; and
            o.   Fossil fuel or other waste-to-energy power plants.
         ii.   “Heavy manufacturing” means the manufacture or compounding
process of raw materials. These activities or processes would necessitate the
storage of large volumes of highly flammable, toxic matter or explosive
materials needed for the manufacturing process. These activities may involve
outdoor operations as part of their manufacturing process.
         iii.    “Heavy retail” means retail and/or service activities that
have regular outside service or outside storage areas, larger than average
enclosed floor areas devoted to commercial use, or partially enclosed
structures, that includes, but is not limited to permanent retail operations
that are located outside of enclosed buildings. Examples include but are not
limited to nurseries; home centers; lumber and other building materials; lawn,
garden equipment, and related supply stores; warehouse clubs and super stores;
recreational equipment rental where the equipment is stored outside; heavy
truck or recreational vehicle leasing or sales; and manufactured home sales.
         iv.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of
the ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a
structure.
         v.   “Historic structure: means any structure that is:
            a.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic
Places, maintained by the Department of the Interior, or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing of the National Register;
            b.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
            c.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or,
            d.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by
either i) an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior or ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
         vi.   “Home occupation” means a business operated as an accessory use
to a residential dwelling unit and subject to special provisions listed in
Subsubsection 165.09.05.F, Home Occupation.
         vii.    “Hospital” means an institution, licensed by the state
department of health, providing primary health services and medical or surgical
care to persons, primarily inpatients, suffering from illness, disease, injury,
deformity, and other abnormal physical or mental conditions, and including as
an integral part of the institution, related facilities such as laboratories,
outpatient facilities, or training facilities.
         viii.    “Hotel” means a building in which lodging or boarding and
lodging are provided and offered to the public for compensation, and in which
ingress and egress to and from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or
office supervised by a person in charge at all hours.
      I.   
         i.   “Impervious Surface” means any hard-surfaced, man-made area that
does not readily absorb or retain water, including but not limited to building
roofs, parking and driveway areas, graveled areas, sidewalks, and paved
recreation areas.
         ii.    “Impervious Surface Ratio” means a measure of the intensity of
land use, determined by dividing the total of all impervious surfaces on a site
by the gross site area.
         iii.    “Indoor recreation” means uses that provide recreation
opportunities indoors for the public (open to the community) or residents of a
subdivision or development, which are not commercial in nature. This phrase
includes:
            a.   Community recreation centers
            b.   Health and exercise clubs
            c.   Bowling alleys
            d.   Movie theaters
            e.   Dance halls
            f.   Arcades
            g.   Indoor skating
            h.   Indoor swimming pools
            i.   Other indoor athletic facilities
            j.   Other functionally similar uses
      J.   
         i.   “Junkyard” means any area where waste, discarded, or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, baled, or packed, disassembled, or
handled, including house wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and places or yards
for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment, automobile, tractor, or machinery wrecking and used parts yards, but
not including areas where such uses are conducted entirely within a completely
enclosed building, and not including the processing of used, discarded, or
salvaged materials as part of the manufacturing operation.
      K.   
         i.   “Kennel” means any building or lot on which five (5) or more
domesticated animals more than six (6) months of age are housed, bred, boarded,
trained, or sold. Also known as animal boarding.
      L.   
         i.   “Landfill” means an area of land or an excavation in which wastes
are placed for permanent disposal. For the purposes of this Zoning Ordinance,
the word "Landfill" does not include clean debris, e.g., dirt, trees, rocks,
etc.
         ii.   “Landscaped area” means the area within the boundaries of a
given lot, site, or common development consisting primarily of plant material,
including but not limited to grass, trees, shrubs, vines, ground cover, and
other organic plant materials; or grass paver masonry units installed such that
the appearance of the area is primarily landscaped.
         iii.    “Landscaped area, perimeter” means any required landscaped
area that adjoins the exterior boundary of a lot, site, or common development.
         iv.    “Landscaped area, interior” means any landscaped area within a
site exclusive of required perimeter landscaping. An interior landscaped area
will include the parking lot.
         v.    “Light industry” means establishments engaged in the manufacture
or processing of finished products from previously prepared materials,
including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of such
products entirely within an enclosed structure, and incidental storage, sales
and distribution. These establishments are characterized by having no major
external environmental effects such as noise, odor, smoke, and vibrations
across property lines and utilizing screening for storage areas. Typical uses
include, but are not limited to, soft drink bottling, apparel assembly from
fabrics, electronics, manufacturing, print shops and publishing houses, lumber
yards, machine shops, monument sales yards, plumbing, and heating shops.
         vi.    “Live/work unit” means buildings or spaces within buildings
that are used jointly for commercial and residential purposes where the
residential use of the space is secondary or accessory to the primary use as a
place of work.
         vii.    “Livestock sales” means the use of a site for the temporary
confinement and exchange or sale of livestock. Typical uses include sales
barns.
         viii.    “Lot area” means the area of a horizontal plane bordered by
the front, side, and rear lot lines.
         ix.    “Lot, corner” means a lot abutting upon two or more public or
private streets at their intersection, not including alleys.
         x.    “Lot, depth of” means the mean horizontal distance between the
front and rear lot lines.
         xi.    “Lot, double frontage” means a lot of record having a frontage
on two nonintersecting streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
         xii.    “Lot, interior” means a lot other than a corner lot.
         xiii.    “Lot lines” means the lines bounding a lot of record.   
         xiv.   “Lot of record” means a lot which is part of a subdivision, the
plat of which has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Dubuque
or Delaware County, or a parcel of land, the deed of which was recorded in the
office of the County Recorder of Dubuque or Delaware County prior to the
adoption of Ordinance No. 285 on July 9, 1962. Also know as “lot” in this
Zoning Ordinance.
         xv.    “Lot width” means the width of a lot of record measured at the
building line and at right angles to its depth.
165.04.03.01 Lot Types Illustrative Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1880.png]
 
         xvi.    “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in
a building including a basement except when the criteria listed in the
definition of enclosed area below lowest floor are met.
      M.   
         i.   “Maintenance services” means a public facility supporting
maintenance, repair, vehicular, or equipment servicing, material storage, and
similar activities including street or sewer yards, equipment service centers,
and similar uses having characteristics of commercial services, contracting, or
industrial activities.
         ii.    “Manufactured home dwelling” means a factory built single-
family dwelling structure which is to be used as a place for human habitation,
which is manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec.
5403, Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, and which is
not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or other device allowing it
to be moved other than to a permanent site; does not have permanently attached
to its body or frame any wheels or axles and is placed on a permanent
foundation. A mobile home constructed to the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development is not a manufactured home unless it has been converted
to real property and is taxed as a site-built dwelling as is provided in the
Code of Iowa Section 435.26 and is placed on a permanent foundation. For the
purpose of any of these regulations, manufactured homes are considered the same
as single-family detached dwellings.
         iii.   “Maximum damage potential development” means hospitals and like
institutions; buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or
instruments of great public value; buildings or building complexes containing
materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power
installations needed in emergency or other building complexes similar in nature
or use.
         iv.   “Minor Projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading and excavating) valued less than $500.
         v.   “Mixed-use” means development in which a combination of
residential and commercial uses (e.g., residential-over-retail), or several
classifications of commercial uses (e.g., office and retail), are located on
the same parcel proposed for development.
165.04.03.01 Mixed-use Illustrative Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1882.png]
 
         vi.    “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but shall also include any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa. A mobile home means any such vehicle
built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building code
and which contains no State or Federal seals.
         vii.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land
upon which two or more occupied mobile homes are harbored, either free of
charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure,
tent, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of
such mobile home park. “Mobile home park” shall not be construed to include
mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other structures temporarily maintained by
any individual, educational institution, or company on their own premises and
used exclusively to house their own labor or students.
         viii.    “Modular home” means a factory-built structure which is
manufactured or constructed to be used as a place for human habitation, but
which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or other device
allowing it to be attached or towed behind a motor vehicle, and which does not
have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles. Modular
homes shall be subject to the same regulations as site-built homes.
      N.   
         i.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks)
means those structures or development for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
         ii.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-
built home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the effective date of the first
floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
         iii.   “Nonconforming building” means a building or portion thereof,
existing at the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance, or amendments thereto,
and which does not conform to the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance or to the
use regulations of the district in which it is located.
         iv.   “Nonconforming lot” means a lot, the area, dimensions, or
location of which was lawful prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment of
this Zoning Ordinance which no longer conforms to the zoning standards because
of said revision or amendment.
         v.    “Nonconforming use” means a use which lawfully occupied a
building or land at the time this Zoning Ordinance, or amendment thereto,
became effective, and which does not conform to the use regulations of the
district in which it is located.
      O.   
         i.   “One-hundred-year flood” (Repealed by Ordinance No. 839 - Oct. 21
Supp.)
         ii.   "Open porch" means a roofed structure attached to the principal
building open on two or more sides, projecting not more than eight feet within
the front yard, not more than three feet within a side yard, and not more than
eight feet within a rear yard.
         iii.    “Outdoor commercial recreation” means uses that provide
commercial amusement outdoors that have higher traffic demands, space
requirements, and external effects, including, but not limited to:
            a.   Fairgrounds
            b.   Amusement parks
            c.   Mini golf
            d.   Golf driving ranges
            e.   Golf courses
         iv.    “Outdoor storage” means the outdoor storage or display of
materials on private property, parts, or products that are related to the
primary use of a site for a period exceeding forty-eight (48) hours.
         v.    “Overlay District” means a district which acts in conjunction
with the underlying zoning district or districts.
         vi.    “Owner” means any person, agent, firm, corporation, or
partnership that alone, jointly, or severally with others: (1) has legal or
equitable title to any premises, dwelling, or dwelling unit, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; or (2) has charge, care, or control of
any premises, dwelling or dwelling unit, as agent of the owner or as executor,
administrator, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the beneficial owner. The
person shown on the records of the recorder of deeds of the county to be the
owner of a particular property shall be presumed to be the person in control of
that property.
      P.   
         i.   “Parcel” means one or more lots which are designated by the owner
or applicant as land to be used or developed as a unit, or which has been
developed as a unit.
         ii.    “Park” means any public or private land available for
recreational, educational, cultural, or aesthetic use.
         iii.    “Parking lot” means an area of land, a yard, or other open
space off the street on a lot used for or designed for use by standing motor
vehicles together with a driveway connecting the parking lot with a public
place.
         iv.    “Parking space” means a surfaced area of not less than one
hundred eighty (180) square feet, either within a structure or in the open,
exclusive of the driveway or access drives, for the parking of a motor vehicle,
and connected with a street or alley by a surfaced driveway which provides
satisfactory ingress for automobiles.
         v.    “Parking, Remote” means a parking lot that is not located on the
same lot as the principal use for which the parking is primarily meant.
         vi.    “Parking structure” means a structure or portion thereof
composed of one or more levels or floors used exclusively for the parking or
storage of motor vehicles. A parking structure may be totally below grade (as
in an underground parking garage) or either partially or totally above grade
with those levels being either open or enclosed.
         vii.    “Permit” means a document issued by the City of Dyersville
allowing a person to begin an activity provided for in this Zoning Ordinance.
         viii.    “Permitted use” means a land use type allowed as a matter of
right in a zoning district, subject only to special requirements of this Zoning
Ordinance.
         ix.    “Personal services” means establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in the provision of services of a personal nature. Typical
uses include beauty and barber shops; seamstress, tailor, or shoe repair shops;
photography studios; television or electronics repair; or dry cleaning stations
serving individuals and households. Personal services include establishments
providing for the administration of massage or massage therapy carried out by
persons licensed by the State of Iowa under the provisions of Chapters 148,
148A, 148B, 148C, 149, 150, 150A, 151, 152, 152B, 152C, 157 or 158 of the Code
of Iowa when performing massage services as a part of the profession or trade
for which licensed or persons performing massage services under the direction
of a person so licensed; or persons performing massage services or therapy
pursuant to the written direction of a licensed physician.
         x.    “Pet service” means any place or establishment, public or
private, where animals are bathed, clipped, or combed for the purpose of
enhancing their aesthetic value or health and for which a fee is charged.
         xi.    “Place of assembly” means an indoor place where people gather
for civic or cultural purposes. The phrase "place of assembly" includes place
of worship, meeting hall, lecture hall, fraternal organization, community
center, or private club. The phrase "place of assembly" does not include the
phrase "indoor recreation.”
         xii.    “Postal facility” means postal services, including post
offices, bulk mail processing or sorting centers operated by the United States
Postal Service.
         xiii.    “Portable storage unit” means a container that may be used to
transport goods but may then also be stationary on a single site for any period
of time before or after transport. The term includes, but is not limited to,
truck containers, portable moving container (POD), and shipping containers.
         xiv.   "Premises" means a parcel of land.
         xv.   “Prohibited use” means a use not permitted in a zoning district.
      Q.   
      R.   
         i.   "Recreational vehicle" means a vehicle which is:
            a.   Built on a single chassis;
            b.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the
largest horizontal projection;
            c.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a
light duty truck; and
            d.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
a temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
         ii.    “Refreshment/roadside stand” means a temporary structure used
for selling agricultural or other consumable products and located outside of
all street rights-of-way.
         iii.    “Regulatory flood elevation” means elevation indicated on the
FIRM as the elevation of the one-hundred-year flood.
         iv.    “Regulatory flood protection elevation” means an elevation one
foot higher than the water surface elevation of the regulatory flood.
         v.    “Restaurant” means a use engaged in the preparation and retail
sale of food and beverages for consumption on-site or off-site, including the
sale of alcoholic beverages on-site when conducted as a secondary feature of
the use, producing less than fifty percent (50%) of the establishment’s gross
income.
         vi.    “Restricted businesses” Refer to Chapter 128 of the Dyersville
Code of Ordinances.
         vii.    “Rezoning” means the action or process of assigning land or
property to a different category of restrictions on use and development.
         viii.    “Right-of-way” means a parcel of land upon which facilities
such as highways, railroads, or utilities are constructed. It is the legal
right of a person, vehicle, or utility to use this parcel of land, as granted,
to pass over property owned by another party.
         ix.    “Roof” means a structural covering over any portion of a
building or structure including projections beyond the walls or supports of the
building or structure.
         x.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
            a.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re- roofing,
replacing roofing tiles, and replacing siding;
            b.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops, and similar finish work;
            c.   Basement sealing;
            d.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes;
            e.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems, and repairing wells or septic systems.
      S.   
         i.   “Safety services” means facilities for conduct of public safety
and emergency services including police and fire protection services and
emergency medical and ambulance services.
         ii.   “Screening” means the method by which a view of one site from
another adjacent site is shielded, concealed, or hidden. Screening techniques
include fences, walls, hedges, berms or other features as may be permitted by
the landscape and screening provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.
         iii.    “Self-storage facility” means a building or group of buildings
containing varying sizes of individualized, compartmentalized and controlled
stalls or lockers for the dead storage of customer’s goods or wares, excluding
junk, explosive or flammable materials, and other noxious or dangerous
materials. No business activities other than rental or storage units shall be
conducted on the premises. Self-storage are also known as mini storage,
convenience storage, or mini warehousing.
         iv.   "Setback line" means a line within a lot or other parcel of land
parallel to a public road, street or highway right-of-way line defining that
minimum distance between the building or other area, structure, or feature as
may be required in this Zoning Ordinance and property line.
         v.   “Sidewalk café” means any outdoor dining area located in any
public sidewalk or right-of-way that is associated with a restaurant or other
eating and drinking establishment on a contiguous adjacent parcel.
         vi.   “Sight triangle” means a triangular area on a corner lot, two of
the sides of such triangle being formed by extending two imaginary lines from
the corner of the lot adjacent to the street intersection at least thirty (30)
feet back to two points along the sides of the lot parallel to the two
intersecting streets, the third side then being formed by the connection of
such points.
165.04.03.01 Sight-Triangle Illustrative Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1884.png]
 
         vii.   "Sign" Any device (including but not limited to letters, words,
numerals, figures, emblems, pictures, or any part or combination) used for
visual communication intended to attract the attention of the public and
visible to the public right-of-way or other properties. The term “sign” shall
not include any governmental unit, nor shall it include any item of merchandise
normally displayed within a show window of a business.
         viii.   “Sign, A-Frame” means a portable, and self-supporting sign
used for advertising purposes, constructed in such a manner as to form an “A”
or a tent-like shape, hinged or not hinged at the top (Syn. Sandwich Board
Sign).
         ix.   “Sign, Abandoned” means a sign, including sign face and
supporting structure, which refers to a discontinued business, profession,
commodity, service, or other activity or use formerly occupying the site; or
which contains no sign copy on all sign faces for a continuous period of six
months.
         x.   "Sign area" means the area of the surface of a sign, bounded by
the top, bottom and sides.
         xi.   “Sign, Attached” means a sign that is structurally connected to
a building or depends upon that building for support.
         xii.   “Sign, Awning” means a sign printed on such a temporary or
movable shelter supported entirely from the exterior wall of a building and
composed of non-rigid materials, except for a supporting framework.
         xiii.   “Sign, Banner” means material with a printed message or
graphic secured or mounted from a structure in such a way as to allow wind
movement.
         xiv.   “Sign, Canopy” means a sign that is attached or made an
integral part of a canopy.
         xv.   “Sign, Freestanding” means a sign that is self-supporting and
structurally independent from any building.
         xvi.   “Sign, Double-Faced” means a sign consisting of no more than
two parallel or near parallel faces supported by a single structure.
         xvii.   “Sign, Electronic Message” means a sign which uses an array of
electrically illuminated lights, generally controlled by a computer or other
electronic programming device, to display information or supporting graphics.
         xviii.   “Sign, Flag” means a sign that is emblazoned on a flag and is
intended to be displayed in a free-flowing manner.
         xix.   “Sign, Ground” means a detached on-premise sign built on a
freestanding frame, mast, or pole(s) with a clearance no greater than 3 feet.
This includes monument signs.
         xx.   “Sign, Illuminated” means a sign with an artificial light source
incorporated internally or externally (directly or indirectly) for the purpose
of illuminating the sign.
         xxi.   “Sign, Monument” means an on-premise freestanding sign with the
appearance of a solid base.
         xxii.   “Sign, Moving” means a sign that conveys its message through
rotating, changing, or animated elements.
         xxiii.   “Sign, Nonconforming” means a sign that was legally erected
prior to the adoption of this Zoning Ordinance but which violates the
regulations of this Zoning Ordinance.
         xxiv.   “Sign, Pole” means an on-premise sign built on a freestanding
frame, mast, or pole(s) with a clearance greater than 3 feet.
         xxv.   “Sign, Portable” means a sign supported by frames or posts
rigidly attached to bases not permanently attached to the ground or a building
and capable of being moved from place to place, and constructed of paper,
cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, plywood, light plastic, or other
similar materials.
         xxvi.   “Sign, Projecting” means a sign other than a wall sign that is
attached to and projects from a building face.
         xxvii.   “Sign, Residential” means a small detached or attached sign
located on a residential premise, conveying a message communicated by the owner
or resident of the property.
         xxviii.   “Sign, Roof” means a sign or part of sign erected upon,
against, or directly above a roof or on top of or above the parapet or cornice
of a building.
         xxix.   “Sign, Temporary” means a sign designed or fabricated of
materials that advertise or communicate messages that change frequently or that
become outdated, are made of materials of relatively low durability, or are
intended to be removed or replaced within a period of six (6) months or less.
Also known as a portable sign.
         xxx.   “Sign, Vertical Banner” means a portable sign typically
constructed of cloth, bunting, plastic, paper, or similar non-rigid material,
and attached to a vertically mounted pole that is securely fastened to the
ground.
         xxxi.   “Sign, Wall” means a sign attached to and parallel with the
side of a building that does not project more than two (2) feet from the
building wall.
         xxxii.   “Sign, Wall Banner” means a portable sign constructed of
cloth, bunting, plastic, paper, or similar non-rigid material, and securely
attached to the wall or support structure for which it is advertising. Flags
are not considered temporary wall banners
         xxxiii.   “Sign, Window” means a sign painted on or installed inside a
window for the purpose of viewing from outside the premises.
         xxxiv.   “Site plan” means a plan, prepared to scale, showing
accurately and with complete dimensioning, the boundaries of a site and the
location of all buildings, structures, uses and principal site development
features proposed for a specific parcel of land; and any other information that
is required by this chapter.
         xxxv.   “Short-Term Rental” means a lodging service that provides
overnight or short-term accommodations to guests or visitors, that may include
provision of breakfast. This definition includes lodging commonly known as bed
and breakfast homes or AirBnbs. Short-term rentals are always owned and
operated by the resident owner or resident manager of the structure, include no
more than three (3) units, and accommodate each guest or visitor for no more
than seven (7) consecutive days during any one-month period.
         xxxvi.   “Small wireless facilities” means a wireless facility that
meets both of the following requirements:
            a.   Each antenna is no more than six cubic feet in volume;
            b.   All other equipment associated with the small wireless
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty-eight cubic feet in volume
            c.   For purposes of this definition, volume shall be measured by
the external displacement of the primary equipment enclosure, not the internal
volume of such enclosure. An associated electric meter, concealment,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, battery backup
power systems, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cutoff switch,
cable, conduit, and any equipment that is concealed from public view within or
behind an existing structure or concealment may be located outside of the
primary equipment enclosure and shall not be included in the calculation of the
equipment volume.
         xxxvii.   “Small wind energy system” means a wind energy conversion
system consisting of a wind turbine, a tower, and associated control or
conversion electronics, which has a rated capacity of not more than 100
kilowatts (kW) and which is intended to primarily reduce on-site consumption of
utility-supplied electricity.
         xxxviii.   “Solar energy system” means any solar collector solar
device, or structural design feature of a building whose primary purpose is to
provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy. Typical
uses include attached solar panels, freestanding solar panels, solar energy
devices integrated as part of the primary or accessory structure, and passive
energy systems that include building elements without any mechanical or
electrical systems.
         xxxix.   “Special flood hazard area (SFHA)” means the land within a
community subject to the “base flood.” This land is identified on the
community’s flood insurance rate map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, and/or
A99.
         xl.   “Start of construction” means substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/ or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
         xli.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
         xlii.   “Storm cellar” means a space below grade used to accommodate
occupants of a structure and emergency supplies as a means of temporary shelter
against severe tornado or similar wind storm activity.
         xliii.   “Story” means that portion of a building included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is
no floor above it, the space between the floor and the ceiling or roof next
above it.
         xliv.   “Story, half” means a space under a sloping roof which has the
line of intersection of roof decking and the wall face not more than four feet
above the top floor level. A half story containing independent apartments or
living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
         xlv.   “Street” means a right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which
affords a primary means of access to the abutting property. This definition is
intended to be inclusive of the term as defined in Iowa Statutes.
         xlvi.   “Street, Arterial” means a street that serves, or is designed
to serve, as a connection between uses which generate heavy traffic volumes or
between other arterial streets, as defined by the Iowa Department of
Transportation.
         xlvii.   “Street, Collector” means a street that serves or is designed
to serve as the connection from local streets to arterial streets, such as the
main entrance street of a residential development, as defined by the Iowa
Department of Transportation. Collector streets may also serve as a secondary
connection between arterial streets.
         xlviii.   “Street, Cul-de-sac” means a local street having one end
open to vehicular traffic and the other end permanently closed with a vehicular
turnaround.
         xlix.    “Street, Local” means a street designed to provide vehicular
access to abutting property and to discourage through traffic, as defined by
the Iowa Department of Transportation.
         l.    “Street, Private” means Any road or street that is not publicly
owned and maintained and used for access by the occupants of the development,
their guests, and the general public.
         li.    “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground
or attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities
and/or other similar uses.
         lii.   “Structure alterations” means any replacement or change in the
type of construction or in the supporting members of a building or structure,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, beyond ordinary
repairs and maintenance, as may be required for the safety of the building.
         liii.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged
condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials
shall be included in the estimated cost of repair.
         liv.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement of a structure
which satisfies either of the following criteria:
            a.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the
cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure either (i) before the “start of construction” of the improvement, or
(ii) if the structure has been “substantially damaged” and is being restored,
before the damage occurred. The term does not, however, include any project for
improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of State or local
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the local code enforcement and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe
living conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of an
“historic structure,” provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as an “historic structure.”
            b.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a
building by twenty-five percent (25%) or more. All additions constructed after
the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by
the community shall be added to any proposed addition in determining whether
the total increase in original floor space would exceed twenty-five percent
(25%).
      T.   
         i.   “Tavern/bar” means a use engaged in the preparation and retail
sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, including taverns,
bars, cocktail lounges, and similar uses other than a restaurant as that term
is defined herein.
         ii.    “Telecommunication tower” means a tower, pole, or similar
structure that supports a telecommunications antenna operated for commercial
purpose above ground in a fixed location, freestanding, guyed, or on a building
or other structure.
         iii.    “Truck terminal” means a facility for the receipt, transfer,
short term storage, and dispatching of goods transported by truck.
      U.   
         i.   “Urban Farming” means a lot over one acre not in an agricultural
district, used to grow and harvest food crops and/or non-food crops for
personal or commercial use. An orchard or tree farm that is a principal use is
considered an urban farm. An urban farm may be divided into plots for
cultivation by one or more individuals and/or groups or may be cultivated by
individuals and/or groups collectively. The products of an urban farm may or
may not be for commercial purposes.
         ii.    “Use” means the conduct of an activity, or the performance of a
function or operation, on a site or in a building or facility.
         iii.    “Utilities” means installations, either above or below ground,
necessary for the production, generation, transmission, delivery, collection,
treatment, or storage of water, solid or fluid wastes, storm water, energy
media, gas, electronic or electromagnetic signals, or other services which are
precedent to development and use of land.
      V.   
         i.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms
of the floodplain management regulations.
         ii.   “Vehicle storage facilities” means long-term storage of
operating or non-operating vehicles for a period exceeding twenty-one (21)
days. Typical uses include storage of private parking tow-away or impound yards
but exclude dismantling or salvage.
         iii.    “Veterinary” means veterinary services and hospitals for
animals. Typical uses include pet clinics, dog and cat hospitals, pet
cemeteries and crematoria, and veterinary hospitals for livestock and large
animals.
         iv.    “Violation” means a failure of a structure or other development
to be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
      W.   
         i.   “Warehousing (enclosed)” means uses including storage,
distribution, and handling of goods and materials within enclosed structures.
Typical uses include wholesale distributors, storage warehouses, and van and
storage companies.
         ii.    “Warehousing (open)” means uses including open-air storage,
distribution, and handling of goods and materials. Typical uses include grain
elevators and open storage yards.
         iii.    “Wind energy system” means kinetic energy present in wind
motion that can be converted to mechanical energy for driving pumps, mills, and
electric power generators.
      X.   
      Y.   
         i.   “Yard” means an open space on the same lot with a building,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of the structure from the ground
upward, excepting as otherwise provided herein. In measuring a lot for the
purpose of determining the depth of a front yard, or the depth of a rear yard,
the least distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used, as
define by “setback line” above.
         ii.    “Yard, front” means a yard measured across the full width of
the lot and measured between the front lot line and the building or any
projections thereof, other than the projections of the usual steps or
unenclosed porches. On corner lots, the City shall determine which of the two
(2) yards adjacent to the street will be considered the front yard.
         iii.    “Yard, Interior Side” means a side yard located immediately
adjacent to another zoning lot or to an alley separating such side yard from
another zoning lot.
         iv.    “Yard, rear” means a yard extending across the full width of
the lot and measured between the rear lot line and the principal building or
any projections other than steps, unenclosed balconies, or porches. On corner
lots, the rear yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which
the lot has its least dimension. The rear yard shall, in all cases, be at the
opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
         v.   “Yard, side street” means the area extending between the front
yard and the rear yard or rear street yard and situated between the side street
lot line and the face of the principal building which is parallel to, or most
nearly parallel to, the side street lot line.
165.04.03.01 Yard Illustrative Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1886.png]
      Z.   
         i.   “Zero lot line” means that the building setback is allowed to be
the same as the property line.
         ii.    “Zoning map” means the official zoning map adopted through
ordinance and subsequent amendments thereto by the City Council.
(Section 165.04 – Ord. 839 – Oct. 21 Supp.)
165.05   ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
   165.05.01.   Purpose. Zoning Districts are established in this Zoning
Ordinance to promote compatible land use patterns and to establish site
development regulations appropriate to the purposes and specific nature of each
district.
   165.05.02.   Application. A base district designation shall apply to each
lot or site within the City and its planning jurisdiction. A site must be in
one base district. Overlay districts may be applied to any lot or site or any
portion thereof, in addition to a base district designation.
   165.05.03.   Official Map.
      A.   Boundaries. The boundaries of these districts are indicated upon the
zoning map of the City, which map is made a part of this chapter by reference.
The zoning map and all the notations, references, and other matters shown
thereon, shall be as much a part of this chapter as if the notations,
references, and other matters set forth by the map were all fully described
herein; the original of which is on file with the City Clerk.
      B.   File. The official zoning map which is on file and in a publicly
accessible digital format with the City Clerk shall be entitled “Official
Zoning Map.” The Administrator shall direct revisions to the Official Zoning
Map as soon as possible after the effective date of any ordinance establishing
or amending zoning district boundaries.
      C.   Authority. The official zoning map, together with amending
ordinances, shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of
land and water areas, buildings, and other structures in the City.
      D.   Conflicts. In the event of conflict between the Official Zoning Map
and an approved legal description of an amending ordinance, the legal
description governs. In other cases, the rules under Subsection 165.05.04
apply.
   165.05.04.   Interpretation of District Boundaries. The district boundaries
are either lot lines, or the centerlines of streets, and alleys, and other
identifiable rights-of-way, unless otherwise shown, and where the districts
designated are bounded approximately by street, alley, or lot lines, and are
not dimensioned otherwise, the lot lines or centerlines of streets and alleys
shall be construed to be the boundary of the district.
   165.05.05.   Annexations. All territory which may hereafter be annexed to
the City shall be considered as being in the A-1 Rural Restricted District
until changed by ordinance, but a final zoning plan shall be adopted within six
months of the annexation following the procedures of this Zoning Ordinance.
   165.05.06.   Water Areas. All areas within the corporate limits of the City
which are under water, and not shown as included within any district, shall be
subject to all regulations of the district which immediately adjoins the water
area, and to extend to the centerline of the water.
   165.05.07.   Vacation of Streets and Alleys. Whenever a public street or
alley is vacated, the zoning district adjoining each side of such right-of-way
shall be extended out to the former centerline and subject to Chapter 137 of
the Dyersville Code of Ordinances.
   165.05.08.   Conformance Required. Except as hereinafter specified, no
building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed,
moved, or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used which
does not comply with all of the district regulations established by this Zoning
Ordinance for the district in which the building or land is located.
   165.05.09.   Hierarchy. References in Chapter 165 to less intensive or more
intensive districts shall be deemed to refer to those agricultural,
residential, commercial, and industrial base zoning districts established in
Subsection 165.05.11, Establishment of Districts, and shall represent a
progression from the A-1 Rural Residential District as the least intensive to
the I-3 Heavy Industrial District as the most intensive.
   165.05.10.   District Types. Districts are classified as base districts and
overlay districts. Overlay districts are indicated with Overlay in the district
title as shown in Section 165.05.11. Overlay Districts and are used in
combination with base districts to modify or expand base district regulations.
They adapt to the special needs of areas of the City and further allow this
Zoning Ordinance to evolve as the planning and development needs and trends of
specific areas also change. The overlay districts are designed to achieve the
following objectives:
      A.   To recognize special conditions in specific parts of the City which
require specific regulation;
      B.   To provide for the protection of special features in the natural and
built environment of the City;
      C.   To allow for change and adaptability to different needs and trends
in land development;
      D.   To encourage comprehensive neighborhood and environmental planning
in the City, and to protect the integrity of vital City services; and
      E.   To provide flexibility in development and to encourage innovative
design through comprehensively planned projects.
   165.05.11.   Establishment of Districts. In order to classify, regulate, and
restrict the location of trade, industries, and the location of buildings
designed for specified uses, to regulate and limit the height and bulk of
buildings hereafter erected or altered, to regulate and limit the intensity of
the use of lot areas, and to regulate and determine the area of yards, courts,
and other open spaces within and surrounding such buildings, the City is
divided into districts. The use, height, and area regulations are uniform in
each class of district, and the districts shall be known as:
      A.   Summary Table.
         i.   A-1 Rural Restricted District. The A-1 district provides for and
preserves the agricultural and rural use of land, while accommodating extremely
low-density residential development generally associated with agricultural
uses. This district is designed to maintain permanent and comprehensive
agricultural uses existing within Dyersville and the Dyersville extra-
territorial jurisdiction. The A-1 district recognizes that major agriculture
has industrial aspects and negative effects on nearby neighborhoods that often
create conflicts between agricultural and residential uses. In addition, land
included in the Urban Reserve in the Comprehensive Plan should be retained in
the A-1 District to prevent premature or inappropriate development.
         ii.   A-2 Rural Residential. The A-2 district provides for the rural
residential use of land, accommodating limited agriculture and very low-density
residential environments. A-2 districts do not permit comprehensive agriculture
and are intended for areas where farming is not a primary, permanent land use.
Subdivisions in A-2 districts can be developed to rural standards, with gravel
roads, surface drainage, and individual water and wastewater management
systems. In parts of the Dyersville jurisdiction with distinctive landforms,
conservation development design is required to maintain the character of the
land. These areas are designated by the Floodplain Overlay District and are
subject to special standards and planning procedures set forth in Subsection
165.06.20, Floodplain Overlay District.
         iii.   R-1 Single-family Residential District. The R-1 district is
intended to provide for low-density residential neighborhoods, characterized by
single-family dwellings with supporting community facilities and urban
services. Its regulations are intended to minimize traffic congestion and to
assure that density is consistent with the carrying capacity of infrastructure
and existing neighborhood character or that desired in the future consistent
with the Comprehensive Plan.
         iv.   R-2 Medium Density Residential District. The R-2 district is
intended to provide for medium-density residential neighborhoods, characterized
by single-family and lower density multi-family dwellings. It adapts to both
established and developing neighborhoods, as well as transitional areas between
single-family, higher density multi-family neighborhoods, and neighborhood
commercial areas. Its regulations are intended to minimize traffic congestion
and to assure that density is consistent with the carrying capacity of
infrastructure and existing neighborhood character or that desired in the
future consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
         v.   R-3 Urban Residential District. The R-3 district is intended to
provide locations primarily for all housing types and densities, with
supporting and appropriate community facilities. It also permits some non-
residential uses to permit the development of mixed-use neighborhoods.
         vi.   C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District. The C-1 district supports
neighborhood convenience uses, with building and site design standards that are
compatible and cohesive with abutting and adjacent residential uses.
         vii.   C-2 General Commercial District. The C-2 district accommodates
a variety of commercial uses, some of which have significant traffic or visual
effect. These districts may include commercial uses which are oriented to
services, including automotive services, rather than retail activities. These
uses may create land use conflicts with adjacent residential areas, requiring
provision of adequate buffering.
         viii.   C-3 Downtown Commercial District. The C-3 district is intended
to provide appropriate development regulations for Downtown Dyersville. Mixed
uses are encouraged within the C-3 district with the primary use type being
commercial. The grouping of uses with retail as the primary use type is
designed to strengthen the town center’s role as a center for trade, service,
and civic life.
         ix.   I-1 Light Industrial District. The I-1 district is designed for
limited industrial uses that are in an urban setting. These facilities provide
services to local residents and are appropriate as transitions between
commercial or residential areas. They usually include landscaping and good
visual and pedestrian relationships among buildings.
         x.   I-2 Mixed Industrial District. The I-2 district is intended for
the location of industrial uses with relatively limited environmental effects.
The district is designed to provide appropriate space and regulations to
encourage good quality industrial development that is buffered from lower
intensity uses when necessary, while assuring that facilities are served with
adequate infrastructure and site area.
         xi.   I-3 Heavy Industrial District. The I-3 district is intended to
accommodate a wide variety of industrial uses, especially those which may have
significant external effects. These uses may have operating characteristics
that create conflicts with lower-intensity surrounding land uses. The district
provides the reservation of land for these activities and includes buffering
requirements to reduce incompatibility.
         xii.   P-1 Public and Institutional District. The P-1 district
accommodates a variety of public and Institutional uses. Examples include civic
buildings, schools, places of assembly, hospitals, medical campuses, and elder
care facilities. The district is designed to provide appropriate space and
development regulations to accommodate the unique needs of these uses.
         xiii.   PC Parks and Conservation District. The PC district
accommodates Dyersville’s policies, including the Comprehensive Plan, to retain
large areas of environmental importance for conservation and recreational
purposes. These include area currently designated at public parks, river
corridors, and existing greenways. Other areas may be designated in accordance
with the policies of the Comprehensive Plan. Legal descriptions of the zoning
district may be used and required where natural features do not follow existing
lot line or boundaries described in Subsection 165.05.03, Official Map.
         xiv.   PUD Planned Unit Development District. The PUD Planned Unit
Development District is intended to provide flexibility in the design of
planned projects; to permit innovation in project design that incorporates open
space and other amenities; and to insure compatibility of developments with the
surrounding urban environment.
         xv.   Floodplain Overlay District. The Floodplain Overlay District
protects areas designated as floodplain or floodway by the Federal Emergency
Management Association (FEMA) for significant development that would increase
natural flooding boundaries.
         xvi.   Historic Overlay District. The Historic Overlay District
enables the adoption of special performance and development standards in
combination with site development regulations of a base district for areas of
special historical or architectural significance within the City of Dyersville.
The District recognizes the importance of historically and architecturally
significant districts to the character of Dyersville and provides for their
conservation.
         xvii.   Neighborhood Conservation Overlay. The Neighborhood
Conservation Overlay District allows special deviations and exceptions for
subdivisions formed when Dyersville was first developed. Standards accommodate
the character of these existing neighborhoods as special areas in Dyersville
that should be conserved while catering to property owner needs.
   165.05.12.   Land Uses. Land uses are permitted, conditionally subject to
special standards and processes, or prohibited in each zoning district.
   165.05.13.   Application. The standards listed in the Subsection 165.05.14,
Use Matrix apply to development on all parcels in the City of Dyersville upon
the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance. Existing uses that do not comply
with the Use Matrix, shall be subject to the requirements of Subsection
165.11.05, Non-conforming Uses.
   165.05.14.   Use Matrix. Within zoning districts in the City, different uses
are permitted with different conditions. These are displayed in the Use Matrix.
Levels of permission include:
      A.   Uses permitted by right. These uses are permitted subject to
issuance of a building permit by the Administrator, subject only to compliance
with all regulations of this Zoning Ordinance. Uses permitted by right might be
subject to supplemental regulations contained in this Zoning Ordinance. These
uses are indicated in the Use Matrix by a “P” in the applicable cell.
      B.   Conditional Uses. These uses are subject to approval of a
Conditional Use Permit by the Board of Adjustment, following the procedure set
forth in Subsubsection 165.03.04.I, Conditional Use Permit. These uses are
indicated in the Use Matrix by a “C” in the applicable cell.
      C.   Site plan approval. Some use types require supplemental regulations
and approval by the Administrator or the Commission and Council, based on
specific criteria for review. This procedure is set forth in Subsubsection
165.03.04.G, Site Plan Review. These uses are indicated in the Use Matrix by an
asterisk (*) following the citing of a specific use type.
      D.   Agricultural Uses
165.05.14.01 Permitted Agricultural Uses
Use Types1 A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Use Types1               A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Agriculture              P   C   C
Animal Production        P*  C
Animal Raising, Personal P   P   C   C   C
Commercial Feedlots/     C
Operations
Community Garden         P   P   P*  P*  P*          P*              P*  P
Livestock Sales          C                                       P
Urban Farming            P   P   C   C   C                           C
Notes:
1. Supplemental standards may apply in Section 165.09, Supplemental
Standards
 
      E.   Residential Uses
165.05.14.01 Permitted Residential Uses
Use Types1 A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Use Types1               A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Boarding Home                            P
Child Care Center                            P   P   P
Child Care Home          P   P   P   P   P   P
Child Development Home   P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*
Dwelling, Single-Family  P   P   P   P   P   P   C   C
Detached
Dwelling, Single-Family          P*  P   P   P   C   C
Attached
Dwelling, two-family             P*  P*  P*  P   P   C
(duplex)
Dwelling, Multi-Family               P*  P*  P   P   C
(apartment, multiplex)
Group Residential                        P                           P
Live/Work Unit                           P*  P   P   P
Manufactured and Modular P   P   P   P   P   P   P   C
Home Dwelling
Mobile Home Park                         C
Short-term rental        P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Notes:
1. Supplemental standards may apply in Section 165.09, Supplemental
Standards
 
      F.   Civic, Public, and Institutional Uses  
165.05.14.01 Permitted Civic, Public, and Institutional Uses
Use Types1 A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Use Types1                 A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Administration                                 P   P   P   P   P       P   P
Animal Shelter and Kennels P   P*              P*  P*      P   P
Campground                 P*  C                                       P*  P*
Cemetery                   P                                           P
Convalescent Home                          P
Education (primary)                                                    P
Education (secondary)                                                  P
Education (university)                                                 P
Family Home                    P   P   P   P   P
Group Care                                 P*                          P*
Group Home                     P   P   P   P   P
Hospital, Clinics, Urgent                  C   P   P   C   P   P   P   P
Care
Indoor Recreation                  C   C   C   P*  P*  P*  P   P       P*  C
Outdoor Commercial         C                       P   C   P   P   P   P*  C
Recreation
Parking Structure or Lot                   C   P*  P*  C   P   P   P   P
Park & Recreation          P   P   P   P   P   P   P   C   P   P   P   P   P
Place of Assembly          P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P   P   P   P   P   P
Postal Facilities                              C   P   P   P   P       P
Safety and Maintenance     P                   P   P   P   P           C
Services
Notes:
1. Supplemental standards may apply in Section 165.09, Supplemental Standards
 
      G.   Commercial Uses
165.05.14.01 Permitted Commercial Uses
Use Types1 A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Use Types1                   A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Alcoholic Beverage Sales                         C   P*  P*  P*  P*  P*
Automobile Rental/Sales                              P   C   P   P   P
Automobile and Equipment                         C   P   C   P   P   P
Repair Services
Car Wash                                             P*  C   P   P   P
Commercial use with drive-                       P*  P*  C   P   P   P
through facility
Construction Sales/Service                                   P   P   P
Food Services, no drive thru                 P*  P   P   P   P   P   P
Food Services, with drive                        P*  P*  C   P*  P   P
thru
Funeral Service                              P   P   P   C   P   P   P
Gas Station                                          P   C   P   P   P
General Office, no drive                     C   P   P   P   P   P   P
thru
General Office, with drive                       P*  P*  C   P*  P   P
thru
General Retail                               C   P*  P   P   P   P   P
General Services                             C   P   P   P   P   P   P
Heavy Retail                                         P*  C   P*  P   P
Hotels                                               P   C   P   P   P
Mixed-Use                                    P*  P*  P   P
Movie Theater                                        P   C
Personal Services                            C   P*  P   P   P   P   P
Pet Services                                     P*  P   P   P   P   P
Restaurants (Drive-in)                           P*  P   C   P   P   P
Restaurants (General)                            P*  P   P   P   P   P
Tavern/Bar                                       C   P   P   P   P   P
Vehicle Storage Facilities                           C       P*  P   P
Veterinary                   P   C                           P   P   P
Notes:
1. Supplemental standards may apply in Section 165.09, Supplemental Standards
 
      H.   Industrial Uses
165.05.14.01 Permitted Industrial Uses
Use Types1 A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Use Types1                A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Farm Equipment Rental and                         P   C   P   P   P
Sales
Animal meat processing or                                         P*
rendering
Construction Yards                                        P*  P   P
Extraction                C
Heavy Industry                                                C   P*
Junk Yards                                                        C
Landfill, Refuse, and     C                                       C
Compost Disposal
Light Industry                                            P*  P   P
Recycling collection                              C           C   P
Recycling collection and                                      C   P
processing
Self-Storage Facility     C               C   C   P*      P*  P   P
(Primarily indoor)
Truck Terminal                                    C       P*  P   P
Warehousing (Enclosed)                                    P   P   P
Warehousing (Open)                                        C   P*  P
Well Drilling services                            C       P*  P*  P
Heavy Manufacturing                                               P*
Notes:
1. Supplemental standards may apply in Section 165.09, Supplemental
Standards
 
      I.   Miscellaneous Uses
165.05.14.01 Permitted Miscellaneous Uses
Use Types1 A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Use Types1                A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Airport                                                           P*
Broadcasting Center       P*                      C       P*  P*  P*
Electrical Substation     P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*      P   P   P   P*
SES (Solar Energy System) P*  P*                  P*      P*  P*  P*  P*
Primary Use
Telecommunication Tower   C   C   C   C   C   C   C       C   C   P*  C
Utilities                 C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C
WECS (Small Wind Energy   P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*      P*  P*  P*  P*  P*
System)
Privately owned small     P*  P*  C   P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*
wireless facilities
Notes:
1. Supplemental standards may apply in Section 165.09, Supplemental
Standards
 
      J.   Uses that are Not Listed. Uses that are not listed are subject to
the requirements below in determining their application in this Zoning
Ordinance.
         i.   If a proposed use is not specified in Subsection 165.05.14, Use
Matrix, the Administrator has the authority to decide that the use is either a
subcategory of a permitted or conditional use or a use that is functionally
similar to a permitted or conditional use. If the Administrator authorizes the
use, then all standards of the similar use apply.
         ii.   If the Administrator determines that a proposed use is not a
subcategory of or functionally similar to a permitted or conditional use than
the use is prohibited.
   165.05.15.   Accessory and Temporary Uses. Accessory and temporary uses and
structures are permitted in any district in connection with any principal use
lawfully existing within such district when located in the same district as the
principal use or in an adjoining district in which the principal use is
permitted. Accessory uses, and accessory buildings and structures include, but
are not limited to, those set out in 165.05.15.01, Permitted Accessory and
Temporary Uses.
165.05.15.01 Permitted Accessory and Temporary Uses
Use Types1 A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Use Types1                   A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Accessory Dwelling Unit      P   P   P*  P*  P*
Building mounted             P*  P*  C   P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*
telecommunication antennas
Home Occupation              P*  P*  P*  P*  P*          P*
Human care incidental to a                                           P
permitted use
Outdoor storage              P   P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P   P   P*
Parking lots                 P   P*  P*  P*  P*  P*  P   P*  P   P   P   P   P
Portable storage units/      P*                              P*  P*  P*  P*
Shipping containers
Private Garage               P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Private pool or recreational P   P   P   P   P                           P   P
equipment
Refreshment or roadside      C                       P                   C   P
stand
Retail Sale of Consumer                              C
Fireworks
Sheds and storm shelters     P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Solar energy systems         P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Temporary Construction       C   C   C   C   C   C   P   C   P   P   P   P*  P*
Buildings
Temporary Construction       P*  C   C   C   C   C   P*  P*  P*  P   P   P*  P*
Equipment or Yards
Notes:
1. Additional standards in Subsection 165.09.12
 
      A.   General Requirements. No accessory structure or use shall be
constructed or established on any lot prior to the time of the substantial
completion of the construction of the principal structure to which it is
accessory and shall comply with the regulations of the applicable zoning
district.
      B.   Supplemental Standards. Specific standards, where applicable, are
described in Section 165.09, Supplemental Standards and Subsubsection 0
Accessory Use Standards for development regulations.
(Section 165.05 – Ord. 839 – Oct. 21 Supp.)
165.06   SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
   165.06.01.   Purpose. Site Development Regulations are established to
promote compatible land use patterns, appropriate to the purposes, and specific
nature of each district.
   165.06.02.   Application. The regulations apply to all sites, in each
respective zoning district, including development and redevelopment, in the
City of Dyersville except where explicitly listed as excluded in this Zoning
Ordinance.
   165.06.03.   A-1 Rural Restricted District. The A-1 district provides for
and preserves the agricultural and rural use of land, while accommodating
extremely low-density residential development generally associated with
agricultural uses.
      A.   A-1 Site Development Regulations
165.06.03.01 A-1 Site Development Regulations
Regulator 1-Family Units Other Permitted Uses
Regulator                  1-Family Units         Other Permitted Uses
Minimum Lot Area           10 acres               20 acres
Minimum Lot Width (feet)   200 feet               200 feet
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard                 50 feet                50 feet
Side Yard                  15 feet                15 feet
Street Side Yard           40 feet                40 feet
Rear Yard                  50 feet                50 feet
                                                  35 feet; 50 feet for farm
Maximum Height (feet)      2.5 stories or 35 feet buildings; 100 feet for grain
                                                  storage structures
Maximum Building Coverage  None                   None
Maximum Impervious Surface None                   None
Ratio
 
   165.06.04.   A-2 Rural Residential District. The A-2 district provides for
the rural residential use of land, accommodating limited agriculture and very
low-density residential environments. A-2 districts do not permit comprehensive
agriculture and are intended for areas where farming is not a primary,
permanent land use.
      A.   A-2 Site Development Regulations
165.06.04.01 A-2 Site Development Regulations
Regulator 1-Family Units 1-Family Units (on-site Other Permitted Uses
                         utilities)
Regulator             1-Family Units 1-Family Units (on- Other Permitted Uses
                                     site utilities)
Minimum Lot Area      1 acre         2 acres             N/A
Minimum Lot Width     100 feet       175 feet            N/A
(feet)
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard            40 feet        40 feet             50 feet
Side Yard             15 feet        15 feet             25 feet
Street Side Yard      40 feet        40 feet             50 feet
Rear Yard             50 feet        75 feet             100 feet
Maximum Height (feet) 35 feet        35 feet             35 feet
Maximum Building      15%            10%                 15%
Coverage
Maximum Impervious    25%            25%                 25%
Surface Ratio
 
   165.06.05.   R-1 Single-Family Residential District. The R-1 district is
intended to provide for low-density residential neighborhoods, characterized by
single-family dwellings with supporting community facilities and urban
services.
      A.   R-1 Site Development Regulations
165.06.05.01 R-1 Site Development Regulations
          Single-Family     Single-Family     Two-Family       Other Permitted
Regulator Detached Dwelling Dwelling Attached Dwelling, Duplex Uses
                            1
                Single-Family   Single-Family   Two-Family      Other Permitted
Regulator       Detached        Dwelling        Dwelling,       Uses
                Dwelling        Attached 1      Duplex
Minimum Site                                    4,000 square
Area per        N/A             N/A 2           feet per unit   N/A
Housing Unit
Minimum Lot     7,200 square    7,200 square    8,000 square    10,000 square
Area            feet            feet            feet            feet
Density
(dwelling units 6.05            6.05            10.89            
per acre)
Minimum Lot     60 feet         40 feet         70 feet         80 feet
Width (feet)
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard      30 feet         30 feet         30 feet         35 feet
Side Yard       8 feet          8 feet 3        8 feet          8 feet
Street Side     15 feet         15 feet         15 feet         15 feet
Yard
Rear Yard       35 feet         25 feet         35 feet         35 feet
Maximum Height
(principal      2.5 stories     2.5 stories     2.5 stories     2.5 stories
structure)
Maximum Height  1.0 story, not  1.0 story, not  1.0 story, not  1.0 story, not
(accessory      taller than the taller than the taller than the taller than the
structure)      principal       principal       principal       principal
                building        building        building        building
Maximum
Building        30%             30%             30%             30%
Coverage
Maximum
Impervious      55%             55%             60%             55%
Surface Ratio
Notes:
1. Individual buildings are limited to two dwelling units.
2. Each unit must be on an individually platted lot
3. Does not apply to interior lot line of attached units on individually
platted lots
 
   165.06.06.   R-2 Medium Density Residential District. The R-2 district is
intended to provide for medium-density residential neighborhoods, characterized
by single-family and lower density multi-family dwellings.
      A.   R-2 Site Development Regulations
165.06.06.01 R-2 Site Development Regulations
          Single-Family Single-Family Two-Family                Other Permitted
Regulator Detached      Dwelling      Dwelling,  Multi-family 2 Uses
          Dwelling      Attached 1    Duplex
             Single-      Single-Family Two-Family                 Other
Regulator    Family       Dwelling      Dwelling,    Multi-family  Permitted
             Detached     Attached 1    Duplex       2             Uses
             Dwelling
Site Area                 3,000 square  3,000 square 2,500 square
per Housing              feet          feet         feet           
Unit
Minimum Lot  6,000 square 3,000 square  6,000 square 10,000 square 6,000 square
Area         feet         feet          feet         feet          feet
Density
(dwelling    7.26         14.52         14.52        17.424         
units per
acre)
Minimum Lot  50 feet      30 feet per   60 feet      90 feet       50 feet
Width (feet)              unit
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard   30 feet      30 feet       30 feet      30 feet       30 feet
Side Yard    6 feet       6 feet 3      6 feet       10 feet       6 feet
Street Side  15 feet      15 feet       15 feet      25 feet       15 feet
Yard
Rear Yard    25 feet      20 feet       25 feet      30 feet       30 feet
Maximum
Height       2.5 stories  2.5 stories   2.5 stories  45 feet       2.5 stories
(principal
structure)
Maximum      1.0 story,   1.0 story,    1.0 story,   1.0 story,    1.0 story,
Height       not taller   not taller    not taller   not taller    not taller
(accessory   than the     than the      than the     than the      than the
structure)   principal    principal     principal    principal     principal
             building     building      building     building      building
Maximum
Building     40%          50%           40%          60%           50%
Coverage
Maximum
Impervious   65%          70%           70%          80%           80%
Surface
Ratio
Notes:
1. No more than four units may be attached in a single-family dwelling
structure within the R-2 District
2. No more than four units are permitted in any single multi-family development
in the R-2 District
3. Does not apply to interior lot line of attached units on individually
platted lots
 
   165.06.07.   R-3 Urban Residential District. The R-3 district is intended to
provide locations primarily for all housing types and densities, with
supporting and appropriate community facilities. It also permits some non-
residential uses to permit the development of mixed-use neighborhoods.
      A.   R-3 Site Development Regulations
165.06.07.01 R-3 Site Development Regulations
          Single-Family Single-Family Two-Family              Other Permitted
Regulator Detached      Dwelling      Dwelling,  Multi-family Uses
          Dwelling      Attached      Duplex
             Single-      Single-Family Two-Family                 Other
Regulator    Family       Dwelling      Dwelling,    Multi-family  Permitted
             Detached     Attached      Duplex                     Uses
             Dwelling
Site Area                 2,000 square  2,200 square 2,000 square
per Housing              feet          feet         feet           
Unit
Minimum Lot  4,400 square 2,000 square  4,400 square 10,000 square 6,000 square
Area         feet         feet          feet         feet          feet
Density
(dwelling    9.9          21.78         19.8         21.78          
units per
acre)
Minimum Lot  40 feet      20 feet       50 feet      70 feet       50 feet
Width (feet)
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard   15 feet      15 feet       20 feet      20 feet       20 feet
Side Yard    5 feet       5 feet 1      5 feet       10 feet       6 feet
Street Side  15 feet      15 feet       15 feet      15 feet       15 feet
Yard
Rear Yard    20 feet      20 feet       20 feet      20 feet       30 feet
Maximum
Height       2.5 stories  2.5 stories   2.5 stories  45 feet       2.5 stories
(principal
structure)
Maximum      1.0 story,   1.0 story,    1.0 story,   1.0 story,    1.0 story,
Height       not taller   not taller    not taller   not taller    not taller
(accessory   than the     than the      than the     than the      than the
structure)   principal    principal     principal    principal     principal
             building     building      building     building      building
Maximum
Building     50%          70%           50%          70%           70%
Coverage
Maximum
Impervious   70%          90%           75%          90%           90%
Surface
Ratio
Notes:
1. Does not apply to interior lot line of attached units on individually
platted lots
 
   165.06.08.   C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District. The C-1 district supports
neighborhood convenience uses, with building and site design standards that are
compatible and cohesive with abutting and adjacent residential uses.
      A.   C-1 Site Development Regulations
165.06.08.01 C-1 Site Development Regulations
Regulator Permitted Residential Uses Permitted Uses2 Permitted Uses Adjacent to
                                                     A or R 1, 2
                   Permitted                                Permitted Uses
Regulator          Residential Uses     Permitted Uses2     Adjacent to A or R
                                                            1, 2
Minimum Lot Area                        None                None
Minimum Lot Width                       None                None
(feet)
Minimum Yards                             
(feet)
Front Yard                              15 feet             None
Side Yard                               0 feet              10 feet
Street Side Yard                        15 feet             None
Rear Yard          Same standards as    None                20 feet
Maximum Height     the R-3 High Density
(principal         Residential District 35 feet             35 feet
structure)
Maximum Height                          Not taller than the Not taller than the
(accessory                              principal building  principal building
structure)
Maximum Building                        40%                 40%
Coverage
Maximum Impervious                      70%                 60%
Surface Ratio
Parking Lot Setback (feet)
Front Yard                             10 feet             10 feet
Side Yard                              None                None
Street Side Yard                       10 feet             10 feet
Rear Yard                              None                None
Notes
1. Additional standards may apply for uses adjacent to residential uses. Refer
to Section 165.09 Supplemental Site Regulations
2. Additional design standards for non-residential uses listed in Section
165.09 Supplemental Site Regulations
 
   165.06.09.   C-2 General Commercial District. The C-2 district accommodates
a variety of commercial uses, some of which have significant traffic or visual
effects.
      A.   C-2 Site Development Regulations
165.06.09.01 C-2 Site Development Regulations
Regulator Permitted Residential Uses Permitted Uses2 Permitted Uses Adjacent to
                                                     A or R 1, 2
                   Permitted                                Permitted Uses
Regulator          Residential Uses     Permitted Uses2     Adjacent to A or R
                                                            1, 2
Minimum Lot Area                        None                None
Minimum Lot Width                       None                None
(feet)
Minimum Yards                             
(feet)
Front Yard                              15 feet             25 feet
Side Yard                               0 feet              25 feet
Street Side Yard                        15 feet             25 feet
Rear Yard          Same standards as    None                40 feet
Maximum Height     the R-3 High Density
(principal         Residential District 45 feet             35 feet 2
structure)
Maximum Height                          Not taller than the Not taller than the
(accessory                              principal building  principal building
structure)
Maximum Building                        50%                 50%
Coverage
Maximum Impervious                      75%                 75%
Surface Ratio
Parking Lot Setback (feet)
Front Yard                             10 feet             10 feet
Side Yard                              None                10 feet
Street Side Yard                       10 feet             10 feet
Rear Yard                              None                10 feet
Notes
1. Additional standards may apply for uses adjacent to residential uses. Refer
to Section 165.09 Supplemental Site Regulations
2. Increases in height allowed with additional yard setbacks described in
Section 165.09 Supplemental Site Regulations
 
   165.06.10.   C-3 Downtown Commercial District. The C-3 district is intended
to provide appropriate development regulations for Downtown Dyersville.
      A.   C-3 Site Development Regulations
165.06.10.01 C-3 Site Development Regulations
Regulator Permitted Uses 2 Other uses adjacent to R
Regulator                        Permitted Uses 2 Other uses adjacent to R
Site Area per Housing Unit       Note 1           N/A
Minimum Lot Area                 None             None
Minimum Lot Width (feet)         None             None
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard                       15 foot maximum  15 foot maximum
Side Yard                        None             10 feet
Street Side Yard                 None             None
Rear Yard                        None             10 feet
Maximum Height (feet)            45 feet          3 stories
Maximum Building Coverage        None             None
Maximum Impervious Surface Ratio None             None
Notes
1. Residential unit sizes and site areas subject to all building and fire
codes, including for mixed-use developments
2. Uses in the C-3 district may include public and institutional uses and
parks which shall follow the C-3 site development standards and are not
classified in the P-1 or PC zoning district.
 
   165.06.11.   I-1 Light Industrial District. The I-1 district is designed to
allow light industrial uses with limited external impacts. Uses are more
compatible as transitions from industrial to commercial or high density
residential uses with adequate buffering.
      A.   I-1 Site Development Regulations
165.06.11.01 I-1 Site Development Regulations
Regulator Permitted Uses Permitted Uses Adjacent to R 1
Regulator                 Permitted Uses             Permitted Uses Adjacent to
                                                     R 1
Minimum Lot Area          None                       10,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width (feet)  None                       50 feet
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard                40 feet                    40 feet
Side Yard                 10 feet                    50 feet
Street Side Yard          25 feet                    40 feet
Rear Yard                 15 feet (40 feet on double 50 feet
                          frontage lots)
Maximum Height (principal 50 feet                    45 feet
structure)
Maximum Height (accessory Not taller than the        Not taller than the
structure)                principal building         principal building
Maximum Building Coverage 70%                        70%
Maximum Impervious        80%                        80%
Surface Ratio
Parking Lot Setback (feet)
Front Yard                15 feet                    15 feet
Side Yard                 None                       15 feet
Street Side Yard          10 feet                    15 feet
Rear Yard                 None                       15 feet
Notes
1. Additional standards may apply for uses adjacent to residential uses. Refer
to Section 165.09 Supplemental Site Regulations
 
   165.06.12.   I-2 Mixed Industrial District. The I-2 district is intended for
the location of industrial uses with relatively limited environmental effects
that may include areas of outdoor operations.
      A.   I-2 Site Development Regulations
165.06.12.01 I-2 Site Development Regulations
Regulator Permitted Uses Permitted Uses Adjacent to R 1
Regulator                 Permitted Uses             Permitted Uses Adjacent to
                                                     R 1
Minimum Lot Area          None                       10,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width (feet)  None                       50 feet
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard                40 feet                    40 feet
Side Yard                 None                       100 feet
Street Side Yard          25 feet                    40 feet
Rear Yard                 15 feet (40 feet on double 100 feet
                          frontage lots)
Maximum Height (principal 60 feet                    50 feet 2
structure)
Maximum Height (accessory Not taller than the        Not taller than the
structure)                principal building         principal building
Maximum Building Coverage 70%                        70%
Maximum Impervious        85%                        85%
Surface Ratio
Parking Lot Setback (feet)
Front Yard                10 feet                    15 feet
Side Yard                 None                       15 feet
Street Side Yard          10 feet                    15 feet
Rear Yard                 None                       15 feet
Notes
1. Additional standards may apply for uses adjacent to residential uses. Refer
to Section 165.09 Supplemental Site Regulations
2. Increases in height allowed with additional yard setbacks described in
Subsection 165.06.21, Development Exceptions
 
   165.06.13.   I-3 Heavy Industrial District. The I-3 district is intended to
accommodate a wide variety of industrial uses, especially those which may have
significant external effects.
      A.   I-3 Site Development Regulations
165.06.13.01 I-3 Site Development Regulations
Regulator Permitted Uses Permitted Uses Adjacent to R 1
Regulator                 Permitted Uses             Permitted Uses Adjacent to
                                                     R 1
Minimum Lot Area          None                       None
Minimum Lot Width (feet)  None                       None
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard                40 feet                    75 feet
Side Yard                 None                       100 feet
Street Side Yard          25 feet                    75 feet
Rear Yard                 15 feet (40 feet on double 100 feet
                          frontage lots)
Maximum Height (principal None                       60 feet 2
structure)
Maximum Height (accessory Not taller than the        Not taller than the
structure)                principal building         principal building
Maximum Building Coverage 70%                        70%
Maximum Impervious        90%                        90%
Surface Ratio
Parking Lot Setback (feet)
Front Yard                10 feet                    15 feet
Side Yard                 None                       15 feet
Street Side Yard          10 feet                    15 feet
Rear Yard                 None                       15 feet
Notes
1. Additional standards may apply for uses adjacent to residential uses. Refer
to 165.09 Supplemental Site Regulations
2. Increases in height allowed with additional yard setbacks described in
Subsection 165.06.21, Development Exceptions
 
   165.06.14.   P-1 Public and Institutional District. The P-1 district
accommodates a variety of public and institutional uses. Examples include civic
buildings, schools, places of assembly, hospitals, medical campuses, and elder
care facilities.
      A.   P-1 Site Development Regulations
165.06.14.01 P-1 Site Development Regulations
Regulator Permitted Uses 2, 3 Permitted Uses Adjacent to R 1
Regulator                  Permitted Uses 2, 3 Permitted Uses Adjacent to R 1
Minimum Lot Area           None                None
Minimum Lot Width (feet)   None                None
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard                 25 feet             25 feet
Side Yard                  5 feet              25 feet
Street Side Yard           25 feet             25 feet
Rear Yard                  25 feet             25 feet
Maximum Height (principal  45 feet             45 feet
structure)
Maximum Height (accessory  1 story             1 story
structure)
Maximum Building Coverage  40%                 40%
Maximum Impervious Surface 70%                 70%
Ratio
Parking Lot Setback (feet)
Front Yard                 8 feet              10 feet
Side Yard                  None                10 feet
Street Side Yard           8 feet              10 feet
Rear Yard                  None                10 feet
Notes
1. Additional standards may apply for uses adjacent to residential uses.
Refer to Section 165.09 Supplemental Site Regulations
2. Public and civic uses located in the Downtown Core area as identified in
the Dyersville Comprehensive Plan shall follow the C-3 District standards
 
   165.06.15.   PC Parks and Conservation District. The Parks and Conservation
District accommodates Dyersville’s policies, including the Comprehensive Plan,
to retain large areas of environmental importance for conservation and
recreational purposes.
      A.   PC Site Development Regulations
PC Site Development Regulations
Regulator Permitted Uses 1
Regulator                   Permitted Uses 1
Minimum Lot Area            N/A
Minimum Lot Width (feet)    N/A
Minimum Yards (feet)
Front Yard                  35 feet
Side Yard                   25 feet
Street Side Yard            25 feet
Rear Yard                   35 feet
Maximum Height (feet)       35 feet
Maximum Building Coverage   5%
Maximum Impervious Coverage 6%
Notes
1. Floodplain Overlay regulations specified in Subsection 165.06.20,
Floodplain Overlay District supersede these regulations for applicable
properties
 
      B.   Property Ownership. All land within PC Districts shall be owned by
the City of Dyersville, another public agency, or a nonprofit organization or
corporation whose primary purpose is resource conservation. The PC District is
not ordinarily intended to apply to other private property and is not intended
to restrict the development rights of private property owners.
   165.06.16.   PUD Planned Unit Development District. The purpose of the PUD
District is to provide for unanticipated or higher quality development through
flexibility in building controls, including height and density, provided that
the resulting development is superior to what would result from existing
district standards, offer a commendable number or quality of meaningful public
benefits, and protect and advance the public health, safety, welfare, and
convenience, and is not inconsistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
   165.06.17.   Run with the Land. The requirements of a PUD run with the land
regardless of the subsequent sale or conveyance of property. The PUD District,
which is adopted by the City Council with the recommendation of the Commission,
assures specific development standards for each designated project. However, it
is not the intent of this section either to permit a mixture of totally
unrelated uses to be developed or to allow the fundamental purposes of the
zoning, platting, and subdivision provisions of the Dyersville Code of
Ordinances to be ignored.
      A.   Application. A PUD District is allowed anywhere in the City and
replaces the existing zoning district when approved.
      B.   Minimum Size. A PUD District shall consist of at least two acres
including right-of-way areas.
      C.   Permitted Uses. Uses permitted in a PUD District shall be identified
at the time of approval. An existing zoning district may be used as the base
land use list but not required. Mixing of residential, commercial, and
industrial uses is allowed to achieve a combination of use types not
anticipated by conventional base districts.
      D.   Site Development Regulations. An existing base zoning district shall
be used for site development regulations with identification of requested
variations from the base district for consideration by the Commission and City
Council. Approved site development regulations shall be incorporated within an
ordinance providing for the map amendment of the property to a PUD District. A
PUD District may contain areas with different regulations. For example, an area
identified for primarily residential uses and an area identified for primarily
commercial uses that represent different character intents or transitions to
adjacent single use districts.
      E.   Criteria for Approval. The following criteria shall govern the
development of PUD District standards:
         i.   Comprehensive Plan. Uses, site regulations, transportation
networks, open space, and site layout shall be consistent with the intent of
the Comprehensive Plan.
         ii.   Environmental Design. Existing trees, groves, waterways, scenic
points, historic spots, and other natural assets and landmarks shall be
preserved whenever possible. The location of trees shall be considered when
designing open spaces and planning the location of buildings, underground
services, walks, paved areas, playgrounds, parking areas, and finished grade
levels. A general landscaping plan shall be required for all PUD District
applications.
         iii.   Open Space. Public open space shall be encouraged and may be
required in large residential developments.
         iv.   Transportation Design. Principal vehicular, bicycle, and
pedestrian access points shall be designed to permit smooth traffic flow with
controlled turning movements and minimum hazards to vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
            a.   Streets, paths, and trails within a PUD District shall be
built for, connected to, and consistent with planned transportation routes as
identified in the Comprehensive Plan and other adopted City or County plans.
Internal cross-easements and shared access points between or within individual
projects and preexisting development shall be maximized when possible.
            b.   Pedestrian routes shall not be immediately adjacent to the
vehicular street system.
            c.   Standards of design and construction for public roadways shall
be equivalent to those standards provided in the Subdivision Ordinance unless
the applicant shows that variations are necessary to promote quality design
without impacting the health, safety, and welfare of the public. No privately
owned roadways may be dedicated to the public use at a later date unless and
until said roadways have been improved by the private owner thereof to then
existing design standards for public streets.
            d.   Each PUD District must abut a public street for at least 100
feet and gain access from that street.
         v.   Public Infrastructure. PUD approvals shall not be granted unless
utility systems such as water lines, sanitary sewer lines, and streets located
outside the PUD exist in sufficient quantity and quality to serve the PUD
without system overload, unless the developer agrees to sufficiently improve
the system deemed inadequate at the developer’s own expense.
         vi.   Parking. The required minimum number of parking spaces required
by the base district do not apply, except that ADA requirements remain
applicable. When provided, parking lots shall be designed following the parking
design standards in Subsection 165.07.06, Parking Design Standards, with
adequate stormwater management, and landscaping at least to the requirements of
the base district.
         vii.   Buffering. When parking areas along the boundary of a PUD
District abut residential uses, civic uses, or public spaces, adequate
buffering shall be provided by means of landscaping and setbacks applicable in
Subsection 165.08.06, Bufferyards and Screening Provisions. Fencing does not
constitute adequate buffering.
         viii.   Signage. A sign package shall be submitted that indicates the
location, size, and height of all on-premise signage.
         ix.   Transitions. Development within the PUD District shall
transition to surrounding preexisting uses outside of the PUD District
according the Comprehensive Plan in terms of transportation routes, building
scale, public spaces, and natural features. It is not the intent of the PUD
District regulations to create isolated tracts of development in the City. The
examples listed below are representations of methods that can make neighboring
developments compatible with each other and meant as potential solutions to
transition PUD development to preexisting development:
            a.   Step down to similar building size, density, scale, and site
design at PUD boundaries.
            b.   Reflect the patterns of buildings, yards, paved areas, and
streetscape displayed by adjacent preexisting developments that are not
intended to change based on the Comprehensive Plan.
            c.   At transitions not separated by right of way near lower-
intensity areas, if building bulk cannot be diminished in size based on this
Zoning Ordinance, then other measures may substitute for building size
reduction.
            d.   At edges with preexisting, lower-intensity residential uses or
densities, use the landscaping and screening methods in Subsection 165.08.06,
Bufferyards and Screening Provisions, other Zoning Ordinance setback
requirements, or other measures as separators of difference land uses.
            e.   Placing parks, greenways, stormwater features, preserving
natural environmental features, and drainageways at PUD boundaries.
         x.   Amenities. Because the PUD District provides the opportunity for
greater design flexibility, mixed land uses, and improved marketability, the
applicant shall be prepared to provide amenities and services as part of the
PUD District that might not be required or possible in a conventional
development. Examples include but are not limited to pedestrian and bicycle
paths, open space, additional landscaping, and building materials.
      F.   Approval Procedures. The procedure for designating a PUD District
shall follow all requirements of the Code of Iowa and those listed in this
Subsection.
      G.   Application Requirements. The application for a Planned Unit
Development District shall include a development plan containing the following
information:
         i.   A detailed map including:
            a.   A legal description of the development site, including a
statement of ownership;
            b.   A boundary survey;
            c.   Site dimensions;
            d.   Contour lines at no greater than two-foot intervals;
            e.   Adjacent public rights of way, transportation routes, and
pedestrian or bicycle systems;
            f.   Description of adjacent land uses;
            g.   Utility service to the site and easements through the site;
and
            h.   Description of other site features, including drainage, soils,
or other considerations that may affect development.
         ii.   A development plan, including:
            a.   A land use plan designating specific uses for the site and
establishing site development regulations, including setback, height, building
coverage, and impervious coverage requirements;
            b.   A site layout, including the location of proposed buildings,
parking, open space, and other facilities;
            c.   Location, capacity, and conceptual design of parking
facilities;
            d.   Description of the use of individual buildings;
            e.   Conceptual information sufficient to indicate a building
height, bulk, materials, and general architectural design;
            f.   A site development and landscaping plan, showing building
locations, or building envelopes; site improvements; public or common open
spaces; community facilities; significant visual features; and typical
landscape plans;
            g.   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation plan, including
relationship to external transportation systems;
            h.   Schematic building elevations and sections if required to
describe the project;
            i.   Grading plans;
            j.   Proposed sewer and utility improvements; and
            k.   Location, sizes, and types of all proposed signage.
         iii.   A statistical summary of the project, including gross site
area, net site area, number of housing units by type, gross floor area of other
uses, total amount of parking, and building and impervious surface percentages.
         iv.   A development schedule indicating the approximate date when
construction of the PUD or stages of the PUD can be expected to begin and be
completed.
      H.   Pre-Application Conference. It is intended that the PUD process
avoid confusion and undue hardship for both the developer and the public
entity. At least one meeting between the private developer and City staff, as
determined by the Administrator, is required so that an understanding and
mutual consensus on the proposed PUD District may be reached to the extent
possible prior to the formal filing for PUD approval. The applicant shall bring
to (or submit prior to) the pre-application conference sufficient supporting
materials to explain the project including the location, proposed uses,
proposed site layout, and existing natural features.
      I.   Formal Filing. After a private developer has formally filed a
proposed PUD District with the City, the Administrator shall have forty-five
(45) days to review the PUD in detail, convey their findings and
recommendations in writing to the Commission, and start the public hearing
process.
      J.   Commission. Upon referral of a proposed PUD from the staff and
proper notice according to Subsubsection 165.03.04.A, General Procedures, the
Commission shall hold a public hearing and act upon each application within
thirty (30) days after the public hearing by making a recommendation to
approve, approve with conditions, or deny an application to the City Council to
decide.
      K.   City Council. The City Council, after proper notice, shall hold a
public hearing and act upon any ordinance establishing a PUD District within
thirty (30) days after the public hearing. Proper notice shall mean the same
notice established for any other zoning amendment and the State of Iowa. The
City Council shall be the final authority for approval or disapproval of a
proposed PUD District. An ordinance adopting a PUD District shall require a
favorable simple majority of the City Council for approval.
      L.   Effect of Approval. Upon approval by the City Council, the
Development Plan shall become a part of this Zoning Ordinance creating or
amending the PUD District. All approved plans shall be filed with the City
Clerk. The approval authorizes the applicant to proceed with an application for
a building permit and certificate of occupancy, as applicable, in compliance
with the approved PUD application.
         i.   A PUD review by the Commission and approval by Council shall also
satisfy building permit approval for construction values of $1,000,000 or more
according to Subsubsection 165.03.04.D, Building Permit.
      M.   PUD Amendments. Amendments to a PUD District follow the same filing
procedures as approval. The following amendments are allowed:
         i.   Minor changes in site engineering, building design, and location
arrangement may be authorized by the Administrator.
         ii.   Substantial and material changes in the PUD must be approved by
ordinance by the City Council following Commission review and public hearing as
outlined in this Subsubsection 165.06.17 J, K.
      N.   Termination. If no substantial development has taken place in a PUD
District for three years following approval of the ordinance, the Commission
can reconsider the zoning of the property and may, on its own motion, initiate
an application for rezoning the property back to the previous district before
PUD ordinance approval. Termination does not apply to approved PUD Districts
where the approval included design in separate phases that may extend past
three years.
      O.    Absent Provisions. Where there is no provision in the approved PUD
District addressing a specific regulation or situation, the requirements of the
base district identified in approved application shall be applied to the
development.
   165.06.18.   Neighborhood Conservation Overlay (NC). The Neighborhood
Conservation Overlay is intended to provide an opportunity to establish and
apply special development controls and standards for certain neighborhoods
platted before the effective date of this chapter. The overlay recognizes that
certain areas of the City have special design characteristics that represent
the time they were developed and should not require public review for
development that functions with the character of the neighborhood.
      A.   Application. The Neighborhood Conservation Overlay standards apply
to the following areas in the City:
         i.   Area of the original plat of Dyersville and Dyersville East
Subdivision.
      B.   Adoption of new areas. The NC Overlay may be adopted for additional
residential areas pursuant to the same procedures as Subsubsection 165.03.04.K,
Map and Text Amendments.
      C.   Development Standards. The standards of the underlying zoning
district apply to all new development, redevelopment, building modifications or
expansions, or site changes.
      D.   Overlay Specific Deviations. In adopted NC Overlay areas, the
following deviations from the underlying district standards are allowed:
         i.   Front yard setbacks for principal structures. Reduction of the
minimum front yard to the average front yard along the same side of the block
face in the same district, provided that:
            a.   If the lot takes vehicular access from the street, the
driveway is at least 25 feet long from the property line to the building wall
or garage door.
            b.   No setback adjustment pursuant to this section shall create a
required front yard setback more than five feet greater than that otherwise
required by the applicable zoning district
         ii.   Street side yard setbacks for principal and accessory
structures. Reduction up to five feet from base district requirements only for
uncovered porches, terraces, and decks provided a planting strip of at least
five feet is maintained between the building and sidewalk when present or
planned.
         iii.   Side yard setbacks for principal and accessory structures.
Reduction to a five foot setback, provided that buildings on adjacent lots are
setback at least five feet from the lot line.
         iv.   Rear yard setbacks. Reduction up to five feet from base district
requirements only for uncovered porches, terraces, decks, and accessory
structures.
         v.   Lots Adjoining Alleys. In calculating the depth of a required
side or rear yard setback for a lot adjoining a dedicated public alley, one-
half of the alley may be credited as a portion of the yard. However, no
residential structure may be nearer than five feet to the side of the alley.
         vi.   Accessory building coverage. An increase in maximum accessory
building area to the greater of 1,000 feet or the building coverage of the
principal structure.
      E.   Deviation Conditions. Deviations granted under the NC Overlay shall
not:
         i.   Authorize construction of buildings in easements, public rights-
of-way or floodplains, or non-conformity with the locally adopted building
code.
         ii.   Interfere with planned right-of-way expansions or alter drainage
patterns onto abutting property.
      F.   Relationship to Variances. The deviations allowed under this section
are not considered variances. Any request beyond the allowances of the
underlying district standards and overlay specific deviations require approval
of a variance by the Board of Adjustments, listed in Subsubsection 165.03.04.N,
Variance.
      G.   Procedure. Building or other development permits issued by the City
in the NC Overlay shall follow all procedures for review that are established
by the City.
   165.06.19.   Historic Overlay District. The Historic Overlay District
provides an opportunity to establish and apply special development controls and
standards, including controls on demolitions, moving, or altering properties,
for areas in the City with historic value or design characteristics.
      A.   Proposal. The creation of a Historic Overlay District may be
initiated by the Commission, the City Council, or by petition of the owner or
owners of 51% of the property area within the proposed district.
      B.   Requirements for Application. An application for the creation of a
Historic Overlay District must include:
         i.   A statement describing the proposed district's special historical
or architectural characteristics and stating the reasons for proposal of the
district;
         ii.   A map indicating the boundaries of the proposed Historic Overlay
District, specifying the base district(s) included within these boundaries;
         iii.   An inventory of the land uses, buildings, or historically
important sites located within the boundaries of the proposed district;
         iv.   A future land use plan for the district; and
         v.   Supplemental site development regulations, design criteria, and
performance standards that apply to the proposed district.
      C.   Adoption of a Historic Overlay District.
         i.   The Administrator shall submit the application to the Iowa State
Historic Preservation Office for review, comment, and recommendation. Any
recommendations by the Iowa SHPO shall be considered with the application for a
Historic Overlay District.
         ii.   The Commission, after proper notice as described under
Subsubsection 165.03.04.A, General Procedures shall hold a public hearing and
act upon each application.
         iii.   The Commission may recommend amendments to Historic District
applications.
         iv.   The recommendation of the Commission shall be transmitted to the
City Council for final action.
         v.   The City Council, after proper notice, shall hold a public
hearing and act upon any ordinance establishing a Historic Overlay District.
         vi.   The ordinance adopting the Historic District shall include a
statement of purpose, a description of district boundaries, and a list of
supplemental site development regulations and performance standards.
         vii.   Upon approval by the City Council, each Historic Overlay
District shall be shown on the Official Zoning Map, identified sequentially by
order of enactment and referenced to the enacting ordinance.
      D.   Approval Criteria. The Commission and City Council shall determine
the criteria for approval which shall include but not limited to:
         i.   Consistency with the policies and objectives of the Comprehensive
Plan.
         ii.   The demonstrated need to preserve the value of property and to
protect individual sites or buildings within a historic district from
inappropriate and harmful development because the district is an area of
historical significance as permitted and limited by applicable law of the Iowa
Code, Section 303.20:
            a.   Are significant in American history, architecture,
archaeology, and culture, and
            b.   Possess integrity of location, design, setting, materials,
skill, feeling, and association, and
            c.   Are associated with events that have been a significant
contribution to the broad patterns of our history, or
            d.   Are associated with the lives of persons significant in our
past, or
            e.   Embody the distinctive characteristics of a type; period;
method of construction; represent the work of a master; possess high artistic
values; represent a significant and distinguishable entity whose components may
lack individual distinction; and
            f.   Have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important
in prehistory or history.
      E.   Building Permits. Building or other development permits issued by
the City in a Historic Overlay District shall be consistent with the adopted
Historic District Ordinance and shall follow all procedures for review that are
established by the City.
      F.   National Register and Landmark. The application may be submitted to
the National Register of Historic Places or National Landmark Program, but
approval shall not be contingent on National designation unless determined by
the City Council.
   165.06.20.   Floodplain Overlay District.
      A.   Statutory Authority, Findings of Fact and Purpose.
         i.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in Chapter 414, Code of
Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning regulations to
secure safety from flood and to promote health and the general welfare.
         ii.   Findings of Fact.
            a.   The flood hazard areas of the City of Dyersville are subject
to periodic inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare of the community.
            b.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are
caused by: (i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood
damages which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately
elevated or otherwise protected from flooding and (ii) the cumulative effect of
obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
            c.   This ordinance relies upon engineering methodology for
analyzing flood hazards which is consistent with the standards established by
the Department of Natural Resources.
         iii.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this ordinance to
protect and preserve the rights, privileges and property of the City of
Dyersville and its residents and to preserve and improve the peace, safety,
health, welfare, and comfort and convenience of its residents by minimizing
those flood losses described in 165.06.20(A)(2)(A) of this ordinance with
provisions designed to:
            a.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood
flows so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
            b.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health,
safety or property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in
flood heights or velocities.
            c.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public
facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time
of initial construction or substantial improvement.
            d.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited
for intended purposes because of flood hazard.
            e.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in
the community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
      B.   General Provisions.
         i.   Lands to Which Ordinance Apply. The provisions of this ordinance
shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City of Dyersville
shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map as being within the boundaries of
the Floodway, Floodway Fringe, General Floodplain and Shallow Flooding
(Overlay) Districts, as established in 165.06.20(D).
         ii.   Establishment of Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for Dubuque County and Incorporated Areas, City of
Dyersville, Panels 19061C165F, 0170F, 0257F, 0260F, 0276F, 0278F, 0280F, 0285F,
dated August 10th, 2021, which were prepared as part of the Flood Insurance
Study for Dubuque County, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be the
Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The flood profiles and all explanatory material
contained with the Flood Insurance Study are also declared to be a part of this
ordinance.
         iii.   Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries. The boundaries
of the zoning district areas shall be determined by scaling distances on the
Official Floodplain Zoning Map. When an interpretation is needed as to the
exact location of a boundary, the Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
ordinance.
         iv.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered without
full compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this ordinance.
         v.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this
ordinance to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance imposes greater restrictions,
the provision of this ordinance shall prevail. All other ordinances
inconsistent with this ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency only.
         vi.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this ordinance shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
         vii.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by
this ordinance are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This
ordinance does not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay)
District areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This ordinance
shall not create liability on the part of the City of Dyersville or any officer
or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made there under.
         viii.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision or portion of
this ordinance is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this ordinance shall not be affected thereby.
      C.   Administration.
         i.   Appointment, Duties and Responsibilities of Local Official.
            a.   The (local official) is hereby appointed to implement and
administer the provisions of this ordinance and will herein be referred to as
the Administrator.
            b.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall
include, but not necessarily be limited to the following:
               (i)   Review all floodplain development permit applications to
assure that the provisions of this ordinance will be satisfied.
               (ii)   Review floodplain development applications to assure that
all necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
               (iii)   Record and maintain a record of (i) the elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new or substantially improved structures or (ii) the elevation
to which new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
               (iv)   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department
of Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
               (v)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other
transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this
ordinance.
               (vi)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual
report concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report
form supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
               (vii)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of any
annexations or modifications to the community’s boundaries.
               (viii)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals
are consistent with the purpose of this ordinance and advise the Board of
Adjustment of potential conflict.
               (ix)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance
Rate Maps when:
                  a.   Development placed within the Floodway (Overlay)
District results in any of the following:
                     i.   An increase in the base flood elevations, or
                     ii.   Alteration to the floodway boundary
                  b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that
does not include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one
foot in the base elevation; or
                  c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
               Within 6 months of the completion of the development, the
applicant shall submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for
a Letter of Map Revision.
               (x)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the
standards of this ordinance.
               (xi)   Forward all requests for variances to the Board of
Adjustment for consideration. Ensure all requests include the information
ordinarily submitted with applications as well as any additional information
deemed necessary to the Board of Adjustment.
         ii.   Floodplain Development Permit.
            a.   Permit Required. A floodplain development permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any man-
made change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited
to buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
materials or equipment, excavation or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
            b.   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms
furnished by the Administrator and shall include the following:
               (i)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is to be made.
               (ii)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to
be done (i.e., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that
will readily identify and locate the work to be done.
               (iii)   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
               (iv)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed
work is intended.
               (v)   Elevation of the base flood.
               (vi)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum
1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to
which a structure is to be floodproofed.
               (vii)   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated
cost of improvements and market value of the structure prior to the
improvements.
               (viii)   Such other information as the Administrator deems
reasonably necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this
ordinance.
            c.   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within
a reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this ordinance and shall approve
or disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be
informed, in writing, of the specific reasons therefore. The Administrator
shall not issue permits for variances except as directed by the Board of
Adjustment.
            d.   Construction and Use to Be As Provided in Application and
Plans. Floodplain development permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this ordinance. The applicant shall
be required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land
surveyor, as appropriate, registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished
fill, structure floor elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection
measures were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance,
prior to the use or occupancy of any structure.
      D.   Establishment of Zoning (Overlay) Districts. The floodplain areas
within the jurisdiction of this ordinance are hereby divided into the following
districts:
         i.   Floodway (Overlay) District (FW) – those areas identified as
Floodway on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map;
         ii.   Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District (FF) – those areas identified
as Zone AE on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map but excluding those areas
identified as Floodway; and
         iii.   General Floodplain (Overlay) District (GF) – those areas
identified as Zone A on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
      The boundaries shall be as shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
Within these district, all uses not allowed as permitted uses are prohibited
unless a variance to the terms of this ordinance is granted after due
consideration by the Board of Adjustment.
      E.   Floodway (Overlay) District (FW).
         i.   Permitted Uses. All development within the Floodway District
shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable
performance standards of the Floodway District.
         ii.   Performance Standards. All Floodway District uses allowed as a
permitted use shall meet the following standards:
            a.   No development shall be permitted in the Floodway District
that would result in any increase in the base flood elevation. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
            b.   All development within the Floodway District shall:
               (i)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
               (ii)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize
flood damage.
               (iii)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that
are resistant to flood damage.
            c.   No development shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the
channel or floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch or any
other drainage facility or system.
            d.   Structures, buildings, recreational vehicles, and sanitary and
utility systems, if permitted, shall meet the applicable performance standards
of the Floodway Fringe District and shall be constructed or aligned to present
the minimum possible resistance to flood flows.
            e.   Structures, if permitted, shall have a low flood damage
potential and shall not be for human habitation.
            f.   Storage of materials or equipment that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive or injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited. Storage of
other material may be allowed if readily removable from the Floodway District
within the time available after flood warning.
            g.   Watercourse alterations or relocations (channel changes and
modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within
the altered or relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations
must be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
            h.   Any fill allowed in the floodway must be shown to have some
beneficial purpose and shall be limited to the minimum amount necessary.
            i.   Pipeline river or stream crossing shall be buried in the
streambed and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due
to channel degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows.
      F.   Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District FF.
         i.   Permitted Uses. All development within the Floodway Fringe
District shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any
other ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet
applicable performance standards of the Floodway Fringe District.
         ii.   Performance Standards. All development must be consistent with
the need to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance
standards. Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no development may
increase the base flood elevation more than one (1) foot. The applicant will be
responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient
technical information to make such determination.
            a.   All development shall:
               (i)   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement.
               (ii)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize
flood damage.
               (iii)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that
are resistant to flood damage.
            b.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved
residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood elevation. Construction shall be
upon compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than 1.0 ft. above
the base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond
the limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating
(such as piers or extended foundation) may be allowed where existing
topography, street grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such
cases, the methods used must be adequate to support the structure as well as
withstand the various forces and hazards associated with flooding.
            All new residential structures located in areas that would become
isolated due to flooding of surrounding ground shall be provided with a means
of access that will be passable by wheeled vehicle during the base flood.
However, this criterion shall not apply where the Administrator determines
there is sufficient flood warning time for the protection of life and property.
When estimating flood warning time, consideration shall be given to the
criteria listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa Administrative Code.
            c.   Non-Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved
non-residential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood elevation, or together
with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level.
When floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State
of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the
base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
            d.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
               (i)   Fully enclosed areas below the “lowest floor” (not
including basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement
must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or
exceed the following minimum criteria:
                  a.   A minimum of two (2) openings, with positioning on at
least two (2) walls, having a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
                  b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one
foot above grade.
                  c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves,
or other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
               Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles,
building access and low damage potential storage.
               (ii)   New and substantially improved structures must be
designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
               (iii)   New and substantially improved structures shall be
constructed with electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water
heater, heating, air conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork),
and other similar machinery and equipment elevated (or in the case on non-
residential structures, optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot
above the base flood elevation.
               (iv)   New and substantially improved structures shall be
constructed with plumbing, gas lines, water/gas meters and other similar
service utilities either elevated (or in the case of non-residential
structures, optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the
base flood elevation or designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to
such a level.
            e.   Factory-Built Homes.
               (i)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes,
including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions,
shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
structure is a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood elevation.
               (ii)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes,
including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions,
shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Anchorage
systems may include but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties
to ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
            f.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
               (i)   On-site wastewater disposal and water supply systems shall
be located or designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from
the system during flooding.
               (ii)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system
as well as the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment
facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood
protection equal to or greater than one (1) foot above the base flood
elevation.
               (iii)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
Water supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be
provided with a level of protection equal to or greater than one (1) foot above
the base flood elevation.
               (iv)   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and
the risk associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
            g.   Storage of Materials and Equipment. Storage of materials and
equipment that are flammable, explosive or injurious to human, animal or plant
life is prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the base
flood elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated
or (i) not be subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent movement
due to flood waters or (ii) be readily removable from the area within the time
available after flood warning.
            h.   Flood Control Structural Works. Flood control structural works
such as levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from
the base flood with a minimum of 3 ft. of design freeboard and shall provide
for adequate interior drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural
Resources shall approve structural flood control works.
            i.   Watercourse Alterations or Relocations. Watercourse
alterations or relocations must be designed to maintain the flood carrying
capacity within the altered or relocated portion. In addition, the Department
of Natural Resources must approve such alterations or relocations.
            j.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks
and subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages
and shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivisions proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
ordinance. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five (5) acres or fifty
(50) lots (whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those
areas located within the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District.
            k.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
               (i)   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are
incidental to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation
requirements where the following criteria area satisfied:
                  a.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed 600 sq. ft. in size. Those portions of the
structure located less than 1 foot above the base flood elevation must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials.
                  b.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure
shall not be used for human habitation.
                  c.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
                  d.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement which may result in damage to other
structures.
                  e.   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical
and heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot
above the base flood elevation.
                  f.   The structure’s walls shall include openings that
satisfy the provisions of 165.06.20(F)(2)(d)(i) of this ordinance.
               (ii)   Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for
such a structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
coverage of the structure and its contents.
            l.   Recreational Vehicles.
               (i)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of
165.06.20(F)(2)(e) of this ordinance regarding anchoring and elevation of
factory-built homes when the following criteria are satisfied:
                  a.   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site
for less than 180 consecutive days, and,
                  b.   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and
ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
on its wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached
additions.
                  c.   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for
more than 180 consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy
requirements of (165.06.20(F)(2)(e) of this ordinance regarding anchoring and
elevation of factory-built homes.
            m.   Pipeline River and Stream Crossings. Pipeline river and stream
crossings shall be buried in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently
protected to prevent rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
            n.   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially
improved maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the elevation of
the 500-year flood, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be
floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional
engineer registered in the State of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing
methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities,
impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with the 0.2% annual
chance flood; and that the structure, below the 0.2% annual chance flood
elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water. A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator. Where 0.2% chance flood
elevation data has not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The
applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources
with sufficient technical information to make such determinations.
      G.   General Floodplain (Overlay) District (GF).
         i.   Permitted Uses.
            a.   All development within the General Floodplain District shall
be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance
(or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet the applicable
performance standards of the General Floodplain District.
            b.   Any development which involves placement of structures,
factory-built homes, fill or other obstructions, storage of materials or
equipment, excavation or alteration of a watercourse shall be reviewed by the
Department of Natural Resources to determine (i) whether the land involved is
either wholly or partly within the floodway or floodway fringe and (ii) the
base flood elevation. The applicant shall be responsible for providing the
Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to make
the determination.
            c.   Review by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources is not
required for the proposed construction of new or replacement bridges or
culverts where:
               (i)   The bridge or culvert is located on a stream that drains
less than two (2) square miles, and
               (ii)   The bridge or culvert is not associated with a channel
modification that constitutes a channel change as specified in 567-71.2(2),
Iowa Administrative Code.
         ii.   Performance Standards.
            a.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the
floodway as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the
applicable provisions and standards of the Floodway (Overlay) District
(165.06.20(E)).
            b.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the
floodway fringe as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet
the applicable provisions and standards of the Floodway Fringe (Overlay)
District (165.06.20(F)).
      H.   Appointment and Duties of Board of Adjustment.
         i.   Appointment and Duties of Board of Adjustment. A Board of
Adjustment is hereby established which shall hear and decide (i) appeals and
(ii) requests for variances to the provisions of this ordinance, and shall take
any other action which is required of the board.
         ii.   Appeals. Where it is alleged there is any error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of this ordinance, the aggrieved party may appeal such action.
The notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board of Adjustment and with the
official from whom the appeal is taken and shall set forth the specific reason
for the appeal. The official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to
the Board of Adjustment all the documents constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from was taken.
         iii.   Variance. The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon request in
specific cases such variances from the terms of this ordinance that will not be
contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance will result in unnecessary
hardship. Variances granted must meet the following applicable standards:
            a.   Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good
and sufficient cause, (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance
would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and (iii) a
determination that the granting of the variance will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing local codes or ordinances.
            b.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood would result.
Consideration of the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based
upon the assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for
similarly situated lands.
            c.   Variance shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
            d.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by this ordinance,
the applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the
Administrator that: (i) the issuance of a variance will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of
insurance coverage and (ii) such construction increases risks to life and
property.
            e.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval
of the Department of Natural Resources.
         iv.   Hearing and Decisions of the Board of Adjustment.
            a.   Hearings. Upon the filing with the Board of Adjustment of an
appeal or a request for a variance, the board shall hold a public hearing. The
board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing and give public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to parties in interest. At the hearing, any
party may appear in person or by agent or attorney and present written or oral
evidence. The board may require the appellant or applicant to provide such
information as is reasonably deemed necessary and may request the technical
assistance and/or evaluation of a professional engineer or other expert person
or agency, including the Department of Natural Resources.
            b.   Decisions. The board shall arrive at a decision on an appeal
or variance within a reasonable time. In passing upon an appeal, the board may,
so long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance,
reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and it shall make its decision, in
writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons for its decision.
In granting a variance, the board shall consider such factors as contained in
this section and all other relevant sections of this ordinance and may
prescribe such conditions as contained in 165.06.20(4)(b)(ii).
               (i)   Factors Upon Which the Decision of the Board of Adjustment
Shall be Based. In passing upon applications for variances, the board shall
consider all relevant factors specified in other sections of this ordinance
and:
                  a.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood
heights or velocities caused by encroachments.
                  b.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land
or downstream to the injury of others.
                  c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the
ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary
conditions.
                  d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its
contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
                  e.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the City.
                  f.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain
location.
                  g.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use.
                  h.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
                  i.   The relationship of the proposed use to the
comprehensive plan and floodplain management program for the area.
                  j.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood
for ordinary and emergency vehicles.
                  k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise
and sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site.
                  l.   The cost of providing governmental services during and
after flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities
(sewer, gas, electrical and water systems), facilities, streets and bridges.
                  m.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of
this ordinance.
               (ii)   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of
the factors listed above, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to
the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this
ordinance. Such conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
                  a.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply
facilities.
                  b.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
                  c.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
                  d.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
dikes, levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this ordinance.
                  e.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with
the flood protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors
associated with the regulatory flood. The Board of Adjustment shall require
that the applicant submit a plan or document certified by a registered
professional engineer that the floodproofing measures are consistent with the
regulatory flood protection elevation and associated flood factors for the
particular area.
         v.   Appeals to the Court. Any person or persons, jointly or
severally, aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Adjustment may present to
a court of record a petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision
is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such
petition shall be presented to the court within thirty days after the filling
of the decision in the office of the board.
      I.   Nonconforming Uses.
         i.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was
lawful before the passage or amendment of this ordinance, but which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this ordinance, may be continued subject to
the following conditions:
            a.   If such use is discontinued for six (6) consecutive months,
any future use of the building premises shall conform to this ordinance.
            b.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall
not be entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
            c.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any
means, including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than
fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred, unless it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this
ordinance. This limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to
comply with existing State or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes
or regulations or the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the
National Register of Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not
preclude its continued designation.
            d.   Except as provided in 165.06.20(J)(1)(b), any use which has
been permitted as a variance shall be considered a conforming use.
      J.   Penalties for Violation. Violations of the provisions of this
ordinance or failure to comply with any of the requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants
of variances) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this
ordinance or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than $(500.00 (five hundred dollars) or imprisoned
for not more than (30 (thirty) days. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained prevent the City of
Dyersville from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy violation.
      K.   Amendments. The regulations and standards set forth in this
ordinance may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed.
No amendment, supplement, change, or modification shall be undertaken without
prior approval of the Department of Natural Resources.
   165.06.21.   Development Exceptions. The regulations specified in this
Zoning Ordinance are subject to the following exceptions and interpretations.
      A.   Use of Existing Lots of Records. In any district where dwellings are
permitted, a single-family dwelling may be located on any lot or plot of
official records as of the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance irrespective
of its area or width; provided, however:
         i.   Each side yard width of any such lot shall not be less than ten
percent (10%) of the width of the lot, and in no case less than five (5) feet.
         ii.   The depth of the rear yard of any such lot shall be not less
than twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot, but in no case less than
twenty-five (25) feet.
      B.   Structures Permitted Above Height Limit. The building height
limitations of this Zoning Ordinance shall be modified as follows:
         i.   Chimneys, fire towers, monuments, water towers, ornamental towers
and spirals, radio or television towers, flag poles, solar arrays subject to
Subsubsection 165.09.09.C, SES (Solar Energy System), or necessary mechanical
appurtenances may be erected to a height in excess of the height regulations
shown for a particular district, as approved by the Administrator.
         ii.   Public, semipublic, or public service buildings, hospitals, or
schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a height in excess of
the height allowed in the district, provided that the building is set back from
each property line at least one foot for each foot of additional building
height above the height limit in the district.
         iii.   In the I-2 district, the height of all structures can be
increased subject to a one (1) foot increase in the minimum yard setback per
one (1) foot increase in height.
      C.   Area Requirements. In any district where public or central water
supply or public sanitary sewer is more than 250 feet from any property line,
the lot area requirements are one acre, exclusive of rights-of-way, and lot
width at the building line shall be a minimum of 100 feet.
      D.   Yard Encroachments. Every part of a required yard shall be open and
unobstructed from finished grade upward, except as specified herein.
         i.   Architectural projections, including roofs that cover porches,
enclosed porches, window sills, belt courses, cornices, eaves, flues and
chimneys, and ornamental features may project two (2) feet into a required
yard.
         ii.   Terraces, patios, uncovered decks, and ornamental features that
have no structural element more than three (3) feet above or below the adjacent
ground level may project six (6) feet into a required front yard. However, all
such projections must be set back at least three (3) feet from an adjacent side
lot line; or 15 feet from any street property line.
         iii.   Fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways, and balconies
opening to fire towers may project a maximum of three (3) feet into required
yards, provided that they do not obstruct the light and ventilation of adjacent
buildings.
         iv.   For buildings constructed upon a front property line, a cornice
may project into public right-of-way, unless such property is constructed on a
State or Federal Highway. Maximum projection is the smaller of four (4) feet or
five percent (5%) of the right-of-way width.
         v.   In commercial districts, a canopy may extend into a required
front yard, provided that the canopy is set back at least five (5) feet from
the front property line, covers less than fifteen percent (15%) of the area of
the required front yard, and has a vertical clearance of at least eight (8)
feet.
         vi.   Lamp posts with a maximum height of ten (10) feet, and flag
poles up to maximum height of base district may be located within required
yards, provided they are set back at least five (5) feet from property lines.
The spread of a flag when fully extended shall not extend onto public right-of-
way.
      E.   Double Frontage Lots. Buildings on through lots and extending
through from street to street shall provide the required front yard on both
streets.
      F.   Exceptions to Prohibited Uses.
         i.   The Board of Adjustment may, by conditional use permit after
public hearing, authorize the location of any of the following buildings or
uses in any district from which they are prohibited by this section:
            a.   Any public building erected and used by any department of the
City, County, State, or federal government;
            b.   Airport or landing field;
            c.   Community building or recreation field;
            d.   Country clubs or golf courses;
            e.   Public and private cemeteries.
         ii.   Before issuance of any conditional use permit for any of the
above buildings or uses, the Board shall refer the proposed application to the
Commission, which shall make a report within thirty (30) days regarding the
effect of such proposed building or use upon the character of the neighborhood,
traffic conditions, public utility facilities, and other matters pertaining to
the general welfare. No action shall be taken upon any application for a
proposed building or use above referred to until and unless the report of the
Commission has been filed indicating compliance of the use with the
Comprehensive Plan.
      G.   Utilities and Railroads. Existing utilities and railroads may
continue to be operated and maintained in residential and commercial districts,
but no new utility or railroad structure other than the usual poles, wires, and
underground utilities, shall be established in such districts, except when so
authorized by the Board of Adjustment.
(Section 165.06 – Ord. 839 – Oct. 21 Supp.)
165.07   PARKING, LOADING, AND SITE ACCESS
Purpose. The regulations establish standards for the functional design of
parking facilities. These regulations are intended to accommodate vehicles in a
functionally satisfactory manner and to minimize external effects on
neighboring properties.
Application. Parking, loading, and site access shall be provided for any new
building constructed, for new uses or conversions of existing buildings, or for
enlargements of existing structures.
Exemptions. Any use within the C-3 Central Business District is exempt from the
off-street parking requirements. Any off-street parking facility constructed in
the C-3 District after the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance must comply
with the design standards set forth in this section.
Parking Requirements. Parking facilities for each use shall be provided in
accordance with the minimum requirements set forth in Table 165.07.03.01,
Minimum Parking Requirements. Parking shall be calculated separately for each
use on a property, unless allowed according to shared parking regulations.
Computation. When a computation of required parking results in a fraction of
0.5 or greater, the requirement shall be rounded up to the next whole number.
Unless otherwise indicated, parking requirements are based on gross floor area.
When parking requirements are computed based on capacity, capacity shall be
determined by the building code or other official determinations of occupancy
in effect for the City at the time the use is established.
Minimum Parking Requirements
Use Types Parking Requirement
Use Types                              Parking Requirement
Agricultural Uses
Agriculture                            No requirement
Animal Production                      No requirement
Animal Raising, Personal               No requirement
Commercial Feedlots/Operations         No requirement
Community Garden                       No requirement
Livestock Sales                        No requirement
Urban Farming                          No requirement
Residential Uses
Boarding Home                          1 per rentable room
Child Care Center                      1 space per 300 square feet
Child Care Home                        2 spaces per dwelling unit.; plus one
                                       additional space for drop-off / pick-up
                                       2 spaces per dwelling unit; plus 1 space
Child Development Home                 per employee and one drop-off / pick-up
                                       space per each six children
Dwelling, Single-Family Detached       1 space per dwelling unit
Dwelling, Single-Family Attached       1 space per dwelling unit
Dwelling, two-family (duplex)          1 space per dwelling unit
Dwelling, Multi-Family (apartment,     1 space per dwelling unit
multiplex)
Group Residential                      1 space for each resident.
Home Occupation                        1 space per dwelling unit
Live/Work Unit                         2 spaces per dwelling unit
Manufactured Home Dwelling             1 space per dwelling unit
Mobile Home Park                       1 space per dwelling unit
Short-term rental                      2 spaces per dwelling unit
Civic, Institutional, and Recreational Uses
Administration                         1 space for 300 square feet of gross
                                       floor area.
Animal Shelter and Kennels             1 space per 250 square feet; animal
                                       enclosure area not counted
Campground                             No requirement
Cemetery                               No requirement
Convalescent Home                      1 space for 4 beds.
Education (primary)                    1 per 5 seats in auditorium; or 1 per
                                       office/classroom
                                       1 space per 5 seats in auditorium; or 1
Education (secondary)                  per office/classroom, whichever is
                                       greater
Education (university)                 1 per 5 seats in auditorium; or 1 per
                                       office/classroom
Family Home                            1 space per 4 person capacity + 1 space
                                       per employee of largest shift.
Group Care                             1 space per 4 person capacity + 1 space
                                       per employee of largest shift.
Group Home                             1 space per 4 person capacity + 1 space
                                       per employee of largest shift.
Hospital, Clinics, Urgent Care         1 space per 4 beds
Indoor Recreation                      1 space per 150 square feet
Outdoor Commercial Recreation          5 spaces per acre; for observation
                                       activities 1 space per 5 fixed seats
Parking Structure or Lot               N/A
Park & Recreation                      Established by an approved site master
                                       plan
Place of Assembly                      1 per 5 seats in assembly area; or 1 per
                                       office/classroom, whichever is greater
Postal Facilities                      1 space per 300 square feet of office
                                       space
Safety and Maintenance Services        1 space per employee on the largest
                                       shift
Commercial Uses
                                       1 space per 300 sf. of gross floor area;
Alcoholic Beverage Sales               or one space per 100 square feet of
                                       gross floor area for on-site consumption
                                       1 space per 400 square feet of office
Automobile Rental/Sales                area; plus one space per 600 sf. of
                                       showroom and one space per each 5,000
                                       sf. outdoor vehicle display area
Automobile and Equipment Repair        3 spaces per repair stall.
Services
Car Wash                               2 spaces per bay
Commercial use with drive-through      1 space per 200 square feet.
facility
Construction Sales/Service             1 space per 2,000 square feet of outdoor
                                       display area
Food Services, no drive thru           1 space per 200 square feet.
Food Services, with drive thru         1 space per 200 square feet.
Funeral Service                        1 space per 5 seats
Gas Station                            1 space per 4 pumps + parking required
                                       for retail service
General Office, no drive thru          1 space per 300 square feet.
General Office, with drive thru        1 space per 300 square feet.
General Retail                         1 space per 300 square feet.
General Services                       1 space per 300 square feet.
                                       1 space per 250 square feet; plus one
Heavy Retail                           space per 2,000 square feet of outdoor
                                       sales or display area
Hotels                                 1 space per guest room
                                       Amount for each respective use;
Mixed-Use                              Reference the shared parking table
                                       165.07.03.01
Movie Theater                          1 space per 4 fixed seats
Personal Services                      1 space per 300 square feet.
Pet Services                           1 space per 500 square feet.
Restaurants (Drive-in)                 1 space per 75 square feet of customer
                                       service area.
                                       1 space per 150 square feet or 3 person
Restaurants (General)                  capacity in dining area, whichever is
                                       greater
Tavern/Bar                             1 space per 100 square feet.
Vehicle Storage Facilities             1 space per 5,000 square feet of storage
                                       area
Veterinary                             1 space per 500 square feet.
Industrial Uses
Farm Equipment Rental and Sales        1 space per 5,000 square feet of display
                                       area
Construction Yards                     N/A
Extraction                             1 space per employee on the largest
                                       shift
Heavy Industry                         1 space per 2,000 square feet
Junk Yards                             1 space per two staff members
Landfill, Refuse, and Compost Disposal N/A
Light Industry                         1 space per 1,500 square feet
Self-Storage Facility (Primarily       1 space per 300 square feet of office
indoor)                                space
Truck Terminal                         N/A
Warehousing (Enclosed)                 4 spaces per 5,000 square feet; plus one
                                       space per each additional 5,000 sf. GFA
Warehousing (Open)                     4 spaces per 5,000 square feet; plus one
                                       space per each additional 5,000 sf. GFA
Well Drilling services                 N/A
Other Uses
Airport                                Established by an approved site master
                                       plan
Broadcasting Center                    1 space
Electrical Substation                  1 space
SES (Solar Energy System) Primary Use  1 space
Telecommunication Tower                1 space per tower
Utilities                              1 space per two staff members
WECS (Small Wind Energy System)        N/A
 
Shared Parking. Sharing parking spaces is allowed and encouraged when uses on
the same lot or development site have different parking needs at different
times of the day. A reduction in parking requirements is permitted based on the
following standards:
Required parking for persons with disabilities cannot be shared or count in the
reduction calculations
Shared parking can be located on-site or off-site, subject to the off-site
parking allowances in Section 165.06, Site Development Regulations.
Shared parking is permitted between different property owners when a shared
parking agreement is executed by the parties involved and submitted to the
Administrator that identifies the shared parking area permission of each party
to share their parking area.
Reductions are allowed according to 165.07.03.01 Shared Parking Allowances
determined by:
Multiply the minimum parking required for each individual use, as set forth in
165.07.03.01, Minimum Parking Requirements by the percentage identified in
165.07.03.01 Shared Parking Allowances for each of the 6 designated time
periods.
Add the resulting sums for each of the six (6) columns in 165.07.03.01 Shared
Parking Allowances.
Select the time period with the highest total parking requirement and use that
total as the shared parking requirement.
 Shared Parking Allowances
Shared Parking
General Use Weekday                                 Weekend
Category
            Night (12 AM Day (6 AM to Evening (6 PM Day (6 AM to Evening (6 PM
            to 6 AM)     6 PM)        to 12 AM)     6 PM)        to 12 AM)
Shared Parking
General Use   Weekday                                Weekend
Category
              Night (12 AM Day (6 AM to Evening (6   Day (6 AM to Evening (6 PM
              to 6 AM)     6 PM)        PM to 12 AM) 6 PM)        to 12 AM)
Residential   100%         60%          90%          80%          90%
Office/       5%           100%         10%          10%          5%
Industrial
Retail/       5%           70%          90%          100%         70%
Commercial
Lodging       80%          80%          100%         50%          100%
Restaurant    10%          50%          100%         50%          100%
Assembly/     10%          40%          100%         80%          100%
Entertainment
All Others    100%         100%         100%         100%         100%
 
Uses Not Listed. Upon receiving a development or permit application for a use
not specifically listed in an off-street parking schedule, the Administrator is
authorized to apply the off-street parking ratio specified for the listed use
that they deems most similar to the proposed use or based on parking data
provided by the applicant that documents the source of all data used to
calculate needed parking.
Exceptions to Parking Requirements. The Commission may approve a reduction in
the number of required parking or loading spaces if the applicant demonstrates
that such a reduction is appropriate and warranted based on specific parking
demand forecasts made by a qualified traffic engineer based on accepted peak
parking demand analysis of comparable uses. The City may retain a qualified,
certified traffic engineer, at the applicant's and/or owner's expense, to
review the parking demand forecast and provide recommendations to the City.
Parking for Persons with Disabilities. Parking spaces that are accessible to
persons with disabilities (accessible parking space") shall be provided as set
out below. Such spaces shall be counted towards the total number of spaces that
are provided for compliance with Table 165.07.03.01, Minimum Parking
Requirements . 
Each off-street parking facility shall provide the number of parking spaces set
forth in Table 165.07.05.01, Accessible Parking Requirements, designed and
designated for use by people with disabilities. Every eighth (8th) parking
space shall be van-accessible. Design criteria and dimensions shall be in
accordance with Federal Register, Volume 56, No 144. Parking facilities for
single-family, duplex, two-family, and mobile home residential uses are exempt
from this requirement.
Spaces designated for people with disabilities shall have a minimum width of
twelve (12) feet. Each handicapped space shall provide a barrier free route to
an accessible building entrance, which shall not require users to walk or wheel
behind parked cars. Such spaces shall be designated with an upright sign
exhibiting the universal symbol for accessibility by the handicapped. All such
spaces shall be designed in compliance with the standards of the Americans with
Disabilities Act.
Accessible Parking Requirements
 
Number of Stalls Number of Required Number of Stalls Number of Required
                 Accessible Spaces                   Accessible Spaces
1-25             1                  201-300          7
26-50            2                  301-400          8
51-75            3                  401-500          9
76-100           4                  501-1,000        2% of total
101-150          5                  1,001 and over   20, plus 1 for each 100
151-200          6                                   stalls over 1,000
 
Parking Design Standards.
Purpose. The purpose of this section is to set out standards for the design,
use, and appearance of off-street parking areas to achieve well-designed
parking areas that are safe, accessible, and attractive.
Application. The objectives and standards of this section are to be used in the
review and approval of onsite parking areas for all uses that have on-site
parking, whether required by Table 165.07.03.01, Minimum Parking Requirements  
or not.
Location, Residential.
No part of any parking space shall be closer than five (5) feet to any
established street right-of-way, or alley line.
With the exception of Downtown Residential uses, off-street parking for single
family and two family residential uses shall be located on the same lot or site
as the use.
Off-street parking areas for multi-family or group residential uses shall:
Be at least six (6) feet from any main building;
Not be located within a required front yard or street side yard;
Not use separately leased detached garages to satisfy parking requirements for
such use. Parking incorporated into the design of multi-family buildings, or
within parking structures, shall be counted toward fulfillment of parking
requirements.
Location, Non-Residential.
Off-street parking for non-residential uses shall be located on the same lot or
site as the use, or within 600 feet of that use if the parking site is within a
zoning district that permits parking lots or garages. Control of ownership or
use rights to the remote off-street parking must be demonstrated as a condition
of permission.
Site Access.
Public Access Drives. Where a lot does not abut on a public or private alley or
easement of access, there shall be provided an access drive not less than eight
(8) feet in width in the case of a dwelling, and not less than twenty-four (24)
feet in width in all cases leading to the loading or unloading spaces and
parking or storage areas required.
Parking facilities other than driveways for single-family, duplex, two-family,
or mobile home residential uses must permit vehicles to enter streets in a
forward position.
Head-in parking from any public right-of-way shall be permitted only in the C-
3 district, or as part of a specific Planned Unit Development design.
Where sidewalks cross driveways, the sidewalk pavement scoring, pattern, and
color, shall continue through the driveway, prioritizing the pedestrian path
over the vehicular path.
Lots that front on arterials and collectors, other than single-family detached,
duplex, or single-family attached dwellings shall provide cross-access to each
other to reduce the number of driveway access points from the street to at most
one per 200 feet measured from the interior driveway curb, unless cross-access
is demonstrated as infeasible.
Pedestrian Access.
Parking lots providing over 200 stalls shall be divided into smaller parking
fields not exceeding 100 stalls to reduce the visual impact of large parking
expanses. Divisions shall be made with landscape strips, peninsulas, or grade
changes.
Divisions of parking lots over 200 stalls shall include protected pedestrian
accessways by means of a curb and 10 foot sidewalk leading to the building
entrance.
Sidewalks and walkways in commercial developments should link to the City
sidewalk and trail system where available and shall provide a safe pedestrian
route from adjacent public sidewalks and trails.
Pedestrian Access Illustrative Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1860.png]
 
Space Standards.
Standard parking stalls shall be at least nine (9) feet wide and eighteen (18)
feet long.
Where parking stalls are located adjacent to landscaped areas, the paved depth
of such stalls may be decreased by two (2) feet to provide for a vehicle
overhang area. The vehicle overhang area may not encroach into a required
landscaped area or public sidewalk or right-of-way.
Materials. All off-street parking and drive areas, including any commercial
parking lot and residential driveway, shall be surfaced with concrete, asphalt,
asphaltic concrete, or brick to provide a durable surface.
Sites within the A-1, A-2, and I-3 Districts are exempt from this requirement.
Drainage. Off-street parking facilities shall be designed and built to prevent
the free flow of water onto adjacent properties. Parking lot design which
discharges water onto public right-of-way is subject to review and approval by
the Administrator. Storm drainage improvements shall conform to Section 170.07
(2)(G) of the Dyersville Code of Ordinances.
Landscape and Screening. Landscaping requirements for off-street parking
facilities are set forth in Subsection 165.08.05, Parking Lot Landscaping.  
Circulation and Module Dimensions. Parking facilities shall be designed to
provide visibility of and between pedestrians and vehicles when circulating
within or entering or leaving the facility and shall not create blind, hidden,
or hazardous areas. Circulation patterns and module dimensions shall be
designed in accordance with the Iowa Statewide Urban Design and Specifications
(SUDAS) Design Manual.
Maintenance. All parking facilities shall be maintained to assure the continued
usefulness and compatibility of the facility. Acceptable maintenance includes
keeping the facility free of refuse, debris, and litter, maintaining parking
surfaces in sound condition, and sustaining the appearance and health of
landscaped areas.
Loading Requirements. In any district with every building, or part thereof
hereafter erected, having a gross floor area of ten thousand (10,000) square
feet or more, which is to be occupied by manufacturing, storage, warehouse,
goods display, retail store, wholesale store, market, hotel, hospital,
mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning, or other uses similarly requiring the receipt
or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise, there shall be provided
and maintained on the same lot with such building loading spaces in accord with
the minimum requirements set forth in 165.07.07.01, Off-Street Loading
Requirements.
Off-Street Loading Requirements
 
Gross Floor Area of Use  Number of Required Loading Spaces
(square feet)
   5,000 or less      None
   5,001 - 40,000     1
   40,001 - 100,000   2
   Larger than 100,0003
Notes:
Add one additional loading space for each additional building floor area of
75,000 square feet or fraction thereof.
 
Loading Design Standards.
Space Standards. Each loading space shall be at least twelve (12) feet wide by
forty (40) feet long, with a vertical clearance of at least fourteen (14) feet.
Material. All loading areas shall be surfaced with concrete, asphalt, asphaltic
concrete, or brick to provide a durable surface.
Sites within the A-1, A-2, and I-3 Districts are exempt from this requirement.
Landscaping. Off-street loading areas are subject to the landscaping and
buffering requirements for parking facilities set forth in Section 165.08,
Landscaping and Screening.
Supplemental Requirements.
Bicycle Parking. Each parking facility providing 25 spaces or more shall
provide parking accommodations for bicycles as follows.
Required Spaces. At least two (2) spaces shall be provided, plus two (2)
additional spaces for every 25 parking stalls.
Design. Bicycle parking facilities shall include bicycle racks secured to the
pavement to prevent easy removal, bicycle lockers, or bicycle posts or bollards
expressly designed for the secure storage.
Location. The location of bicycle parking facilities shall be at least as
convenient to the main entrance of the primary use as the most convenient
automobile parking along a paved route to the entrance and not obstruct
pedestrian walkways to less than five (5) feet wide.
Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area,
including any commercial parking lot, shall be so arranged as to reflect the
light away from adjoining premises in any residential district.
Deferred Parking. The Commission may approve a reduced number of parking spaces
for a specific project after receiving the recommendation of the Administrator,
provided that the applicant presents a plot plan demonstrating that an area on
site is reserved for the designated number of spaces as required by this Zoning
Ordinance and agrees to improve that area for parking within sixty (60) days of
the time the Commission deems such parking shall be improved.
Other Vehicle Use Areas.
Drive-Through Services. Commercial establishments providing drive-in or drive-
through services shall provide minimum on-site stacking distance as provided by
Table   165.07.10.01, Off-Street Stacking Requirements.
All drive-through services must provide a ten (10) foot alternative runaround
access for vehicles not in a drive-through queue.
Stacking spaces shall be nine (9) feet wide by twenty (20) feet long.
Off-Street Stacking Requirements
 
Type of Operation                        Minimum Stacking Space, including the
                                         vehicle at the window/station
Commercial, financial services drive     3 vehicles per window or kiosk
thru, ATM
Self-service or automatic car wash       Entrance: 4 vehicles per bay
                                         Exit: 1 vehicle per bay
Fast food restaurant                     5 vehicles behind the menu board
Photo processing, dry cleaning, or other 2 vehicles per service window
drive-up personal services
 
Stacking Illustrative Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1888.png]
 
Recreational Vehicle Parking and Storage. Recreational vehicle parking shall be
governed as follows:
No front yard parking or storage is allowed exceeding forty-eight (48) hours.
However, recreational vehicles can be parked on a paved driveway for longer
than forty-eight (48) hours for seasonal use between the dates of April 1st and
October 31st provided that the vehicle does not encroach into public rights-of-
way or pedestrian routes.
Storage or parking of recreational vehicles is allowed in the rear yard. If the
rear yard is not accessible, the recreational vehicle can be stored in the side
yard but must not encroach into the zoning side yard required area or into the
front yard required area applicable for principal buildings in Section 165.06,
Site Development Regulations.
Any recreational vehicle which exceeds forty (40) feet in length or fourteen
(14) feet in height shall not be stored in any residential area.
Recreational vehicles must have current registration.
Equipment may not be permanently connected to utility lines, including sewer,
water, gas, or electricity. Equipment may be connected to electrical supply
temporarily to charge batteries.
Vehicle Storage. Storing or displaying materials, boats, campers, or inoperable
vehicles, or parking trucks or trailers is prohibited in parking areas unless
the use of vehicle storage, outdoor storage, or junk yards is permitted in the
applicable zoning district and complies with the associated standards of the
permitted use.
165.08   LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING
Purpose. The Landscaping and Screening regulations provide additional guidance
on the development of sites within the City by addressing landscaping and
screening requirements. They are designed to improve the appearance of the
community, buffer potentially incompatible land uses from one another, and
conserve the value of properties within the City and its extra-territorial
jurisdiction. The Landscape and Screening regulations are further intended to
expedite development approval by including predictable, uniform standards for
landscaping.
Applicability. The provisions of this Section shall apply to all new
development on each lot or site upon application for a building permit. The
Commission, City Council, or Board of Adjustments may require buffering and
screening above or in addition to the requirements of this Section during
relevant application review when warranted based on evidence of adverse impacts
on adjacent property or the public, except for the following:
Reconstruction or replacement of a lawfully existing use or structure following
a casualty loss;
Remodeling, rehabilitation, or improvements to existing uses or structures
which do not substantially change the location of structures, parking, or other
site improvements; and
Additions or enlargements of existing uses or structures which increase floor
area or impervious coverage area by less than twenty (20) percent of the
building established on the site on the effective date of this Zoning
Ordinance. Where such cumulative additions or enlargements are twenty (20)
percent or greater, these provisions shall apply only to that portion where the
new development occurs.
General Requirements.
Review Procedure. The provisions contained in this Section shall be applied for
each individual lot or site when an application for a building permit on such
lot is made. A landscape plan shall be submitted with each application for a
building permit. Such plan shall be reviewed by the Administrator for
compliance with the provisions of this Section.
Landscaping Materials.
Plantings shall be used in required landscaped areas or bufferyards consistent
with the most recent native plant species list by Iowa State University. All
plant materials shall conform in size, species, and spacing with this section
of this Zoning Ordinance.
No artificial trees, shrubs, plants, or turf shall be used to fulfill the
minimum requirements for landscaping. Inorganic materials, such as stone or
decorative pavers, may be used provided that such material does not comprise
more than 35% of the minimum required landscaped area. Other concrete and/or
asphalt pavement surfaces may not be used within the minimum required
landscaped area, except for driveways and walkways.
Installation Standards.
Landscaping or screening installed in any landscaped area shall not obstruct
the view from or to any driveway approach, street, alley, or sidewalk, and
shall be consistent with the Sight Triangle definition.
All earth berm locations shall be reviewed by the Administrator, or his/her
designee to determine how the berms shall relate to drainage and public
utilities.
Maintenance. Upon installation of required landscape materials, each owner
shall take appropriate actions to ensure their continued health and
maintenance. Required landscaping that does not remain healthy shall be
replaced consistent with this section and the approved landscaping plan for the
project.
Planting Standards.
In any landscaped area required by the Bufferyard and Screening Provisions
165.08.06 or the Parking Lot Landscaping Requirements 165.08.05, one (1) tree
of an approved species with a minimum caliper size of two (2) inches shall be
planted and maintained for each 500 square feet of required landscaped area.
Existing trees shall be preserved to the greatest extent possible and when
preserved shall be counted toward satisfaction of planting standards. The
following efforts shall be made to retain existing trees:
Parking areas and building sites shall be located to the maximum extent
practicable to preserve existing trees;
Grates or other pervious materials or surfaces shall be used within the drip
line (outermost limit of horizontal branch extension) of existing trees to
allow water and air to reach the tree roots;
Fill shall be prohibited in areas under the drip line of existing trees; and
Drastic changes in drainage patterns which might negatively affect existing
trees shall be avoided.
Any tree of an approved species planted or maintained with a caliper of three
(3) inches or above shall count as 1.5 trees toward the satisfaction of the
requirements of this Section. An approved existing tree with a caliper of eight
(8) inches or above preserved on a site shall count as 2.00 trees toward the
satisfaction of the requirements of this Section.
No tree shall be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead
utility line.
Parking Lot Landscaping. Unless otherwise noted, each unenclosed parking
facility with a paved surface of 6,000 square feet or more and all drive
through lanes shall comply with the following regulations.
Each unenclosed parking facility shall provide a minimum landscaped buffer of
ten (10) feet along any street property line.
Each parking facility that abuts a residential district shall provide a ten
(10) foot wide landscaped buffer along its common property line with the
residential district.
Any parking facility regardless of size which abuts property in a residential
district shall provide a wall, landscape screen, or earth berm not less than
four (4) feet in height for the length of the common boundary. A grade change,
terrace, or other site feature which blocks the sight line of headlights into a
residential property may satisfy this requirement, subject to the determination
of the Administrator.
Each unenclosed parking facility of over 6,000 square feet within any front or
street yard shall provide interior landscaped area equal to no less than five
percent (5%) of the total paved area of the parking facility.
Interior landscaped areas shall be at least located at the end of parking rows.
An individual interior landscaped area shall not be smaller than forty (40)
square feet.
Parking facilities within the I-1, I-2, and I-3 Districts shall be exempt from
this requirement.
Interior landscaping shall be credited toward the satisfaction of overall
landscaping requirements set forth in this Section.
Landscaping or screening installed in any required landscaped area shall not
obstruct the view from the off-street parking facility to any driveway
approach, street, alley, or sidewalk. Landscaping shall further not obstruct
any views among parking spaces and circulation ways, or visibility between
vehicles and pedestrians.
Parking Lot Landscaping Illustrative Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1890.png]
 
Bufferyards and Screening Provisions. Bufferyards are areas that include a
variety of methods to screen the potential impacts of intensive uses, whereas
the yards required in Section 165.06, Site Development Regulations are distance
requirements.
Bufferyard and screening provisions.
Bufferyards are required between zoning districts which share a common lot line
or are adjacent but separated by an intervening alley as indicated in Table 0,
Bufferyard Requirements.
Bufferyards are required for certain uses and circumstances as indicated in
this Zoning Ordinance.
Bufferyards are not required for single-family, 2-family, duplex, or townhouse
use types in any district.
Bufferyard distances when adjacent to R districts are listed in the development
regulation tables in Section
165.06, Site Development Regulations.
Bufferyard Requirements (in feet)
                           District B
                           (Less Intensive Adjacent District)
District A                 A-1, A-2 1 R-1, R-2 1 R-3 1
(More Intensive District)3
                           District B
                           (Less Intensive Adjacent District)
District A                 A-1, A-2 1 R-1, R-2 1 R-3 1
(More Intensive District)3
R-3                        Applies    Applies 4  ---
C-1                        Applies 4  Applies 4  Applies 4
C-2                        Applies 2  Applies 2  Applies 2
C-3                        ---        ---        ---
P-1                        Applies    Applies    Applies
I-1                        Applies    Applies    Applies
I-2                        Applies    Applies    Applies
I-3                        Applies    Applies    Applies
Notes:
Applies only to residential uses or preliminary plats previously established
in the zoning district.
Buffering requirement applies to adjacencies between commercial and office
use types and pre-existing residential land uses in adjacent districts.
Buffering requirement also applies to a commercial or office use type
established in a C-2 district and adjacent to a pre-existing residential use
in the C-2 District. Vertical screening may also be required as set forth in
Section 165.09, Supplemental Standards.
Buffer requirements do not apply to single-family, duplex, or townhouse
residential uses established in District A.
Only applies to non-residential uses established in District A.
 
Bufferyard Screening Application. Screening is required when one or more of the
following conditions in the more intensive zoning district in Table 0,
Bufferyard Requirements is directly visible from and faces toward the boundary
of the less intensive zoning district, or for certain uses and circumstances
listed in this Zoning Ordinance:
Outdoor storage areas or storage tanks, unless otherwise screened.
Loading docks, refuse collection points, and other service areas.
Major machinery or areas housing a manufacturing process.
Major on-site traffic circulation areas or truck and/or trailer parking.
Sources of glare, noise, or other environmental effects.
Bailing or stockpiling of cardboard or other shipping or packaging materials.
Surface parking lots with 100 or more stalls directly adjacent to less
intensive districts.
Bufferyard and Screening Treatment.
Each required bufferyard must be entirely landscaped and free of paved areas,
access ways, storage, or other disturbances.
A six (6) foot opaque barrier shall be provided which visually screens the
conditions listed in Subsubsection 165.08.06 A, Bufferyard Screening Provisions
or for certain uses and circumstances listed in this Zoning Ordinance, from
less intensive uses as follows:
A solid wood, PVC, and/or masonry fence or wall at least six (6) feet in
height.
A landscaping screen, using evergreen or deciduous materials, capable of
providing a substantially opaque, hedge-like barrier and attaining a minimum
height of six (6) feet within three (3) years of planting.
A landscaped earth berm with a maximum slope of three (3) to one (1), rising no
less than six (6) feet above the existing grade of the lot line separating the
zoning districts.
Any combination of these methods that achieves a cumulative height of six (6)
feet.
Screening shall not adversely affect surface water drainage.
Screening may be interrupted to provide access drives to service areas or for
loading purposes to buildings. Such breaks or interruptions shall not exceed
twenty percent (20%) of the length of the required screened area.
Exceptions.
A development may continue to comply with the bufferyard and screening
requirements in effect at the time of issuance of its original permit,
regardless of whether an adjacent lot or site is subsequently rezoned to a less
intensive district which would otherwise require compliance with bufferyard or
screening provisions.
Perimeter parking lot landscaping is not required when the area being buffered
is thirty (30) inches or more below the street elevation.
Bufferyard requirements are not required when there is an elevation difference
between two adjacent properties that is six (6) feet or greater.
The City Council may approve reductions in bufferyard or screening requirements
for infill development sites.
165.09   SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS
Purpose. The Supplemental Standards set forth additional standards for certain
uses located within the various zoning districts. These regulations recognize
that certain use types have characteristics that require additional controls to
protect public health, safety, and welfare. These regulations complement the
use regulations contained in Section
165.06, Site Development Regulations of this Zoning Ordinance.
Application. The supplemental standards generally coincide to all “P*” and “C”
uses identified in the land use matrix, Subsection 165.05.14, Use Matrix.
Nothing in these provisions shall relieve any property owner or user from
satisfying any condition or requirement associated with a previous approval,
conditional use permit, variance, development permit, or other permit issued
under any local, State, or Federal ordinance or statute.
Additional Conditions. The Board of Adjustment, Commission, or City Council may
impose additional conditions upon the premises according to Subsection
165.03.04, Permits and Procedures   as may be necessary to prevent or minimize
adverse effects upon other property in the neighborhood. Such conditions shall
be expressly set out in the resolution or ordinance authorizing the conditional
use or development permit. Violation of such conditions shall be a violation of
this Zoning Ordinance.
Supplemental Standards – Agricultural Uses.
Agriculture. Agriculture is a permitted interim use in any zoning district.
Animal Production. Animal production is permitted if it is demonstrated that
the use complies with all regulations in the Dyersville Code of Ordinances and
the State of Iowa.
Animal Raising in A-2 and Residential (R) Districts.
Breeding and raising of small animals and fowl, such as birds, rabbits,
chinchilla, and hamsters is permitted in the A-2 and R-districts as a primary
or accessory use, provided that any building housing such animals shall be at
least fifty (50) feet from any property line and 25 feet from any dwelling unit
on the site. Any such activity must be located entirely within a rear yard. The
raising of fowl shall be limited to fifty (50) birds per acre, up to a maximum
of 500 birds.
Only within the A-2 District, any lot of one (1) acre and over may maintain one
horse, llama, or other equine and/or hoofed animal and its immature offspring.
Such a lot may have one additional animal for each additional two (2) acres of
lot area, up to a maximum total of ten (10) animals. No stable shall be located
closer than fifty (50) feet to any dwelling unit on the site or fifty (50) feet
to any property line.
Animal Production: General.
Animal Production use types may not be established within 500 feet of a pre-
existing residential districts, including A-2 through R-3.
No feeding or disposal of garbage, rubbish, or offal associated with animal
production shall occur within 500 feet of any pre-existing residential
districts, including A-2 through R-3.
Commercial Feedlots/Operations. Are allowed if it is demonstrated that they
comply with the purposes, regulations, restrictions, and requirements of
Chapter 459, Animal Agricultural Compliance Act and Chapter 459A, Animal
Agriculture Compliance Act for Open Feedlot Operations, of the Iowa Code.
Community Garden. Is permitted if:
The site is designed and maintained so that water and fertilizer will not drain
onto adjacent property;
There are no retail sales on site;
Fences comply with Subsection 165.09.11, Fence Regulations;
The garden plot observes the setbacks of the applicable district within which
it is located;
Compost or waste bins are located such that they are out of public view and no
less than twenty (20) feet from property lines of adjacent residences; and
The garden is regularly mowed, kept free of weeds and overgrowth, and always
maintained in good condition.
Livestock Sales. Is permitted if found in compliance with the criteria for
granting a conditional use permit, Subsubsection 165.03.04.I.v.
Urban Farming. Is permitted as a conditional use when:
Agricultural uses have no offensive odors or create dust and provided, further,
that no retail sales shall be permitted on the premises.
Crop areas must be set back at least five (5) feet from all property lines. The
required setback must be covered with ground plants, not planted with the
intent to harvest, which may include grasses (including native species and
ornamental grasses).
Lighting, if provided, shall be shielded so that all directly emitted light
falls within the property.
Supplemental Standards – Residential Uses.
Child Care Home. Applicable State regulations under the Code of Iowa must be
followed.
Child Care Center. Applicable State regulations under the Code of Iowa must be
followed.
Child Development Home. Allowed if it is demonstrated that the operator for the
use meets all certification, licensing, inspection, and/or monitoring
requirements of the Iowa Department of Human Services in accordance with
Chapter 237A.3A, Iowa Code and as defined. 165.04.03.C.viii, Definitions.
Dwelling, Multi-Family. Dwelling, Multi-family is subject to compliance with
the following regulations:
Parking areas and garages are located in the rear or side yards.
Walkways with a minimum width of five (5) feet shall directly connect each
front door or front entrance with surrounding sidewalks, walkways, or paths.
All crossings of internal streets, access drives, and driveways shall have
well-defined pavement markings and pedestrian crossing signs.
Lighting shall be shielded from adjacent properties and directed downward.
Dwelling, Single-Family Attached and Two-Family (duplex).
Primary entrance(s) into the building shall be oriented to face the street,
which may be a shared entrance with access to each unit.
Conversions of single family to two-family dwellings is allowed if the
following are met:
Units can be attached in a standard (side-by-side), vertical (over-under) or
front-back arrangement.
Must meet all development, parking, landscaping, and other applicable
regulations in the Dyersville Code of Ordinances for two-family dwellings.
Home Occupation.
No home occupation may be operated in such a manner as to create offensive
noise, odor, smoke, heat, vibration, electronic interference, or other
interference with the appropriate use and enjoyment of adjacent properties or
otherwise constitute a nuisance or safety hazard to adjacent persons or
properties.
No outdoor storage of equipment or materials used in the home occupation shall
be permitted beyond what is allowed for residential districts.
No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total floor area of a dwelling
unit may be devoted to the home occupation.
No internal or external alteration which would change the basic characteristic
of the building as a residential dwelling shall be permitted.
No nonresident employee may be employed on the premises at any time. A home
occupation may be carried on by members only of the immediate family.
No public display of goods shall be allowed.
A permitted home occupation may be operated or maintained as an accessory use
only in the principal building.
No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater volumes than
would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood.
No motor vehicle repair is permitted for customers.
If a home occupation which is operated as a nonconforming use, as defined by
Subsection 165.11.05, Nonconforming Uses becomes subject to the terms and
provisions of Subsection 165.11.06, Discontinuance of Nonconformities or
Subsection 165.11.04.D, Repair of Nonconforming Structures then the home
occupation shall also be subject to all of the provisions of this Section.
Manufactured and Modular Home Dwelling.
Must comply with the Iowa State Building Code for modular, factory built
structures and display the seal issued by the state Building Code Commissioner
Constructed to meet the build code standards of the City, as amended from time
to time.
Mobile Home Parks. A Mobile Home Park is subject to compliance with the
following regulations:
A Mobile Home Park shall be considered to be one zoned lot. The minimum
contiguous area of a Mobile Home Park shall be two acres.
The minimum size of an individual mobile home space shall be 4,000 square feet
for single-wide mobile home units and 5,000 square feet for double-wide mobile
home units.
Each mobile home space shall have a width of at least 40 feet and a length of
at least 75 feet.
Setbacks. Each Mobile Home Park shall have a minimum perimeter setback of
thirty (30) feet. No space for a dwelling unit or any other structure shall be
permitted in the required setback.
Setback landscaping. All area contained within the required setbacks except
sidewalks and private drives shall be landscaped and screened in conformance
with Subsection 165.08.03, General Requirements of this Zoning Ordinance.
Impervious Coverage: Impervious coverage for a Mobile Home Park shall not
exceed sixty percent (60%) of the total site area.
Separation Between Mobile Home Units. The minimum separation between a mobile
home unit and attached accessory structure and any other mobile home units and/
or accessory structure shall be twenty (20) feet.
Separation and Setbacks for Accessory Buildings. An accessory building on a
mobile home space shall maintain a minimum rear and side yard setback of five
feet. A minimum distance of ten (10) feet shall be provided between any mobile
home and an unattached accessory building.
Access to Public Street. Each Mobile Home Park must abut and have access to a
dedicated public street with a right-of-way of at least 60 feet.
Vehicular Circulation. The Mobile Home Park must provide interior vehicular
circulation on a private internal street system. Minimum interior street width
shall be 27 feet. The street system shall be continuous and connected with
other internal and public streets; or shall have a cul-de-sac with a minimum
diameter of 100 feet. No such cul-de-sacs may exceed 300 feet in length.
Separation between Units and Circulation Areas. The minimum distance between a
mobile home unit and any attached accessory structure and the pavement of an
internal street or parking area shall be ten (10) feet.
Sidewalks. Each Mobile Home Park shall provide a sidewalk system to connect
each mobile home space to common buildings or community facilities constructed
for the use of its residents, and to the fronting public right of way. Sidewalk
width shall be at least five (5) feet.
Street and Sidewalk Standards. All internal streets and sidewalks shall be
hard-surfaced. Electric street lighting is required along all internal streets.
Parking Requirements. Each Mobile Home Park must provide at least two (2) off-
street parking stalls for each mobile home space.
All Mobile Home Parks shall provide individual units and common facilities with
an adequate, piped supply of hot and cold water for both drinking and domestic
purposes; and standard electrical service, providing at least one 120-volt and
one 240-volt electrical service outlet to each mobile home space.
Complete water and sewer service shall be provided within each Mobile Home Park
in accordance with the Subdivision Chapter of the Dyersville Code of
Ordinances.
Properly spaced and operating fire hydrants shall be provided for proper fire
protection within each Mobile Home Park in accordance with the Subdivision
Chapter of the Dyersville Code of Ordinances.
All electric, telephone, gas, and other utility lines shall be installed
underground.
Tie Downs. All mobile homes shall be securely tied down at each corner, or in
accordance with manufacturers’ recommendations.
Skirting. All mobile homes shall maintain continuous skirting all around the
bottom of the structure to the top of the ground. Skirting shall consist of a
durable non-weathering material made for that purpose.
Waste Disposal. All mobile home parks shall be provided waste disposal based on
one dumpster per each twenty (20) developed lots. All dumpsters shall be
screened from view with a 100% opacity fence or wall.
Tornado Shelters. Tornado shelters shall be provided in the mobile home park.
Such shelter or shelters shall be built according to the recommendations of the
Civil Defense authority and be large enough to meet the specific needs of the
park and its residents.
Financial Responsibility. Each application for a Mobile Home Park shall include
a demonstration by the developer of financial capability to complete the
project and a construction schedule.
Live/Work Units.
The units are designed with an external appearance as a residence rather than a
commercial business.
The area devoted to work does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total
habitable area of the unit.
Signage is restricted to a single placard with a maximum size of two (2) square
feet that must be affixed securely and flat against a wall of the unit.
Supplemental Standards – Civic, Institutional, and Recreational Uses.
Animal Shelter and Kennels.
No building or dog runs shall be located nearer than 100 feet from any property
line and 500 feet to the property line of any residential use or district.
All kennel facilities shall be screened around such facilities or at property
lines to prevent distracting or exciting animals. Screening shall be of a type
provided by Subsubsection 165.08.06.C, Bufferyard Screening Treatment
Subsection 165.08.07, Exceptions, establishing landscape and screening
standards.
Dog runs will not be used after 9:00 p.m. or before 7:00 a.m.
Campgrounds.
Minimum Size. Each campground established after the effective date of this
Zoning Ordinance shall have a minimum size of one (1) acre.
Setbacks. All campgrounds shall maintain a fifty (50) foot front yard setback
and a 25 foot bufferyard according to Subsection 165.08.06.C, Bufferyard
Screening Treatment Subsection 165.08.07, Exceptions, from all other property
lines.
Each campground must maintain water supply, sewage disposal, and water and
toilet facilities in compliance with all City ordinances; or, alternately, be
limited to use by self-contained campers, providing their own on-board water
and disposal systems.
Group Care and Group Homes. Each group care facility must be validly licensed
by either the State of Iowa or the appropriate governmental subdivision.
Hospitals, Clinics. Is permitted if found in compliance with the criteria for
granting a conditional use permit, Subsubsection 165.03.04.I.v.
Indoor Recreation.
All principal and accessory uses occur indoors and are conducted in a
completely enclosed building that has no openings, other than pedestrian
entrances and stationary glass windows, facing any residentially district or
use.
In residential districts, uses are designed with no more than 10,000 square
feet of gross floor area and parking located in the rear or side yard, subject
to the screening requirements of Subsection 165.08.06, Bufferyard and Screening
Provisions and Subsection 165.08.07, Exceptions.
Outdoor Commercial Recreation.
The use is spaced 600 feet from residential districts and uses.
All lighting is shielded to prevent the direct glare of beams onto any adjacent
residential district or use.
Parking Lot or Structure.
Compliance with the parking and screening standards of Section 165.07, Parking,
Loading, and Site Access and Section 165.08, Landscaping and Screening.
Parking structures are not allowed in the R-3 district unless located within
the primary structure/use.
Place of Assembly. 
The use is conducted so that it does not create parking or traffic congestion
or otherwise unreasonably interfere with the peace and enjoyment of surrounding
homes as places of residence.
Maximum lot area is not more than four (4) times the average lot area on the
block.
Supplemental Standards – Commercial Uses.
Alcoholic Beverage Sales.
The property line of the proposed use is not located within 300 feet from
school, public park, or place of assembly measured in a straight line distance
between the closest property lines. This does not include grocery stores,
convenience stores, or other retail uses where the sale of alcoholic beverages
are not the majority of gross sales or retail floor area.
Automobile Rental/Sales and Equipment Repair Services.
All service and repairs are performed within a fully-enclosed building.
All permanent storage of material, merchandise, and equipment, including
wrecked vehicles and excluding the display of vehicles for sale or lease, are
stored in areas screened from view in accordance with Subsection 165.08.06,
Bufferyard and Screening Provisions.
Access is taken from a collector or arterial street or from a local street if
no residential use is between the access point and the nearest intersection
with a collector or arterial street.
Car Wash.
There are not more than six (6), one car bays.
All facilities are designed and configured such that any outdoor spraying
preparation or drying activities are directed away from any abutting
residential districts or uses.
Bay access is oriented and/or screen walls are provided to prevent headlights
from shining onto any abutting residential district or use.
Accessory equipment is set back at least twenty (20) feet from all property
lines.
Commercial and Industrial Uses in the R-3 and C-1 districts.   If the use
fronts on a local street then in addition to any landscaping and screening
standards in Section 165.08, Landscaping and Screening:
The gross floor area of the primary building shall be a maximum of 6,000 square
feet.
Parking lots shall be located in an interior side or rear yard.
All allowed uses must be operated entirely indoors, except for an outdoor
restaurant or cafe seating area. However, the outdoor seating area may not face
directly upon or be within fifty (50) feet of a residential use or district.
Commercial use with drive-through facility. See Subsubsection 165.07.10.A,
Drive-through Services.
Food Services, with drive thru. See Subsubsection 165.07.10.A, Drive-through
Services.
Gas Station.
Lighting is shielded to prevent the direct glare of beams onto any adjacent
residential districts or uses.
No repairs other than minor automobile repairs are performed on the premises
and any such minor repairs are performed only within the principal building on
the premises.
No partially dismantled or wrecked vehicle are stored outside of a completely
enclosed building;
The use is separated from all residential districts in accordance with
Subsection 165.08.06, Bufferyard and Screening Provisions.
If the use contains a car wash, the supplemental standards for a car wash shall
apply.
General Office, with drive thru. See Subsubsection 165.07.10.A, Drive-through
Services.
Heavy Retail
Heavy retail stores that include outdoor storage of materials shall comply with
the following conditions:
All outside storage or display of merchandise or other materials or equipment
shall be screened from view at eye level from a public street or adjacent
property.
All storage buildings with overhead doors, drive openings, or open bays and all
loading areas shall be fully screened from view at eye level from a public
street or adjacent property.
Minimum screening shall be consistent with screening standards set forth in
Section 165.08, Landscaping and Screening.
All areas not occupied by buildings or landscaping shall be paved with concrete
or asphalt, or similar treatment to reduce dust.
Restaurants (Drive-in). See Subsubsection 165.07.10.A, Drive-through Services.
Access is taken from a collector or arterial street or from a local street if
no residential use is between the access point and the nearest intersection
with a collector or arterial street
Restricted Business (Adult Entertainment). Refer to Chapter 128 of the
Dyersville Code of Ordinances
Vehicle Storage Facilities.
The perimeter of each new facility shall be fully enclosed by opaque,
freestanding fencing, or screen walls. Minimum height of this enclosure shall
be eight (8) feet. Any such enclosure shall be constructed behind required
landscaped bufferyards.
Storage of materials shall not be higher than the height of the surrounding
screen fence or wall.
Supplemental Standards – Industrial Uses.
The following standards are for all industrial uses listed as P* and C in
Subsection 165.05.14, Use Matrix.
Truck Traffic. Industrial uses that require semi-trailer truck service shall
provide a truck routing plan that demonstrates compliance with the following
standards:
The use shall take access from a road of sufficient width and construction to
accommodate the required semi-trailer truck service. Such access shall be
evaluated from the point of ingress and egress to the parcel proposed for
development to the point of intersection of the proposed truck route with an
arterial street or highway, whichever is closer.
The use shall not be located to require semi-trailer trucks to travel on local
roads that traverse residential zoning districts.
Truck parking, loading, and maneuvering areas shall be constructed of portland
cement concrete. All other service and storage areas shall have an all-weather
surface for a distance of fifty (50) feet from public street right-of-way that
minimizes the generation of dust and sediment. Any remaining lay down yards or
storage areas may have gravel surfaces.
External Impacts. All manufacturing or fabrication processes that are
reasonably likely to produce material, detrimental off-site impacts, including
glare, dust, odors, air contaminants, vibrations, and noise impacts, shall be
sufficiently enclosed to mitigate the impacts. For the purposes of this
standard, "sufficient enclosure" may include a bufferyard with walls, fences,
and/or earthen berms necessary to accomplish the mitigation objective, as
listed in Subsubsection 165.08.06.C, Bufferyard Screening Treatment.
Nuisance Abatement. Each industry is required to continuously employ best
management practices (BMPs) for pollution control and nuisance abatement, when
reasonably and practicably available to the industry. Compliance with
applicable federal, state, or local laws or regulations that require a
particular BMP or level of technology to be employed constitutes compliance
with this requirement with respect to the pollutant or nuisance addressed by
the law or regulation.
Construction Yards.
The use is not used to dispose of inoperable machines or wastes. Temporary
storage of construction wastes generated by the contractor who operates the
storage yard is permitted, provided that the materials are not stored for more
than seven (7) days and do not contain hazardous materials or wind-blown
debris.
Extraction.
Erosion Control. A resource extraction use may not increase the amount of storm
run-off onto adjacent properties as determined by review of the Administrator.
Erosion control facilities, including retention and sediment basins, are
required of each facility, if necessary, to meet this standard.
Surface Drainage. The surface of the use may not result in the collection or
ponding of water, unless specifically permitted as part of a Conditional Use
Permit.
Storage of Topsoil. Topsoil shall be collected and stored for redistribution
following the end of the operation.
Elimination of Hazards: Excavation shall not result in a hazard to any person
or property.
Restoration of slopes to a gradient not exceeding 33% as soon as possible.
Installation of perimeter safety screening and/or fencing.
Installation of visual screening adjacent to any property within a residential
or public use district consistent with standards contained in Section 165.08,
Landscaping and Screening.   
Restoration of Landscape. The topography and soil of the resource extraction
site shall be restored and stabilized within nine (9) months of completion of
the operation. The site shall be seeded, planted, and contoured in a way that
prevents erosion. Alternately, the site may be used as a lake or body of water,
subject to approval by the City Council with the recommendation of the
Commission.
Junk Yards.
The perimeter of each new facility shall be fully enclosed by opaque,
freestanding fencing or screen walls. Minimum height of this enclosure shall be
eight (8) feet. Any such enclosure shall be constructed behind required
landscaped bufferyards.
Each existing junk yard facility shall be screened as provided above within one
(1) year of the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance.
The above requirement shall also apply to uses adjacent to residential zoning
districts or residential uses that include the long-term storage and
dismantling of vehicles.
Storage of materials within any salvage services facility may not be higher
than the height of the surrounding screen fence or wall.
No new junk yards use may be established within 500 feet of the nearest
property line of a pre-existing residential zoning district or of any pre-
established civic use.
Landfill, Refuse, and Compost Disposal.
Compliance with Codes. Each landfill must comply with all relevant City,
county, State, or Federal codes and statutes.
Prevention of Hazards. No facility shall present a hazard to surrounding
residents or properties.
Drainage and Water Supply. No landfill may modify or prevent the flow of major
natural drainage ways within the jurisdiction of the City. Landfills shall not
produce a measurable increase in pollution in any public water-based
recreational facility or in any waterway or well that is a part of a public or
private water supply.
Minimum Separation from Residential Uses. No non-putrescible landfill may be
established within 300 feet of a developed residential or public use. No
landfill involving the disposal of putrescible or septic wastes shall be
established within one-fourth mile of any residential, public, or commercial
zoning district; or any State of Federal Highway.
Restoration of Site. The site of any landfill must be restored, stabilized,
planted, and seeded within six (6) months after the end of the operation.
Toxic Waste. The disposal of hazardous, toxic, or radioactive wastes as defined
by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency shall be prohibited within the
City and its extra-territorial jurisdiction.
Self-storage Facility.
The minimum size of a convenience storage facility shall be one (1) acre.
Primary activities within the facility shall be limited to the rental of
storage cubicles and the administration and maintenance of the facility.
Accessory activities can include the storage of vehicles, light trucks, boats,
and recreational vehicles provided that the area:
Does not face the street
Does not comprise more the fifty percent (50%) of the gross site area.
Includes screening according to Section 165.08, Landscaping and Screening.
However, chain-linked fencing shall not be used as the required fencing method
along sides facing the street.
All driveways within the facility shall provide a paved surface with a minimum
width of twenty-five (25) feet.
All storage must be within enclosed buildings and shall not include the storage
of hazardous materials.
No storage buildings may open into required front yards.
Facilities must maintain landscaped bufferyards of thirty (30) feet adjacent to
any public right-of-way and twenty (20) feet adjacent to other property lines,
unless greater setbacks are required by Section 165.08, Landscaping and
Screening.   
Supplemental Standards – Miscellaneous Uses.
Broadcasting Center.
Tower mounted equipment complies with the standards of Telecommunication Towers
below.
Roof-mounted equipment does not extend more than ten (10) feet above the
rooftop.
Ground-mounted satellite dishes are setback at least 75 feet from all property
lines and screened according to Section 165.08, Landscaping and Screening.   
Security fencing is allowed but does not count toward the screening
requirements if not opaque.
Electrical Substation.
All buildings and structures shall be screened from view from public rights-of-
way or any private property located in any residential district. Any screening
located in or adjacent to any front yard shall be limited to vegetation that
provides effective year-round screening.
All electric substation uses shall be fenced where any hazard to the safety of
human or animal life is present.
Yards shall be provided as set out for the district in which the use is
located.
SES (Solar Energy System) Primary Use.
Height. The system shall not be taller than twenty (20) in industrial and
agricultural districts, twelve (12) feet in commercial districts, and six (6)
feet in all other permitted districts.
Setbacks and lot coverage. Setback and lot coverage standards for principal
buildings in the underlying zoning district apply.
Easements. No portion of any Solar Energy System shall extend into any
easement, right of way, or public way regardless of above stated minimum
setbacks.
Interconnection Agreement. A Solar Energy System shall not be installed until
evidence has been given that the utility company has been informed of the
customer’s intent to install an interconnected customer-owned system and a copy
of executed interconnection agreement with the utility company is provided.
Abandonment. Any solar energy system that is not operated for a continuous
period of 180 days shall be considered abandoned and shall be removed by the
property owner. Removal includes the entire structure including transmission
equipment.
Maintenance. The property owner of any Solar Energy System shall maintain such
system in a safe and attractive manner, including replacement of defective
parts, painting, cleaning, and other acts that may be required for the
maintenance and upkeep of the function and appearance of such a system.
Underground Wire Requirement. The electrical collection system shall be placed
underground within the interior of each parcel. Overhead lines shall not be
permitted.
Industry Standard. As part of the approval, documentation shall be provided
showing that the system and parts meet industry standards, such as Underwriters
Laboratories (UL), or another standard applicable to the technology and
materials of the system.
Solar Access. A property owner who has installed or intends to install a Solar
Energy System shall be responsible for negotiation with other property owners
in the vicinity for any necessary solar easement. The approval for Solar Energy
System by the City does not constitute solar access rights.
Small Wireless Facilities. Privately owned small wireless facilities on city-
owned and non-city-owned poles in the public right-of-way, and City structures
shall comply with all applicable State and federal laws, Iowa Code 8C, and this
Zoning Ordinance, to maintain the aesthetics within the City, while allowing
for an increase in the availability and quality of wireless service. These
general procedures and standards are established for the siting, construction,
installation, collocation, modification, relocation, operation, and removal of
small wireless facilities within the public right-of-way.
New poles or wireless support structures.
If existing utility poles are not available for collocation, operators may
propose a new wireless support structure. New wireless support structures that
will be more than twenty (20) feet in height shall match the design of the
City's existing signal mast arms. New wireless support structures that will be
twenty (20) feet or less in height shall match the City's existing
streetlights.
Residential Areas: In residential areas, new wireless support structures shall
be located to avoid obstructing the view of building facades by placing the
wireless support structure at a corner, intersection, or along a lot line.
The number of new utility poles or wireless support structures may be
reasonably limited, consistent with the protection of public health, safety,
and welfare, and provided that such limitation does not have the effect of
prohibiting or significantly impairing a wireless service provider’s ability to
provide wireless service within the area of a proposed new structure.
Permit. A permit may be required to work in the public right-of-way according
to the Dyersville Code of Ordinances and Iowa Code 8C.7A.
Mounting. The small wireless facilities shall either be mounted internal to the
pole, or top-mounted and concealed within a radome that also conceals the cable
connections, antenna mount, and other hardware.
Wireless facility shroud requirements. A screening shroud shall be provided on
the underside of the small wireless facilities, mounted external to the pole,
to conceal cable connections from public view. The shroud shall be firmly
attached and sealed to prevent birds from entering and nesting.
Finish requirements. The equipment shroud must be non-reflective and painted or
color impregnated to match the color of the existing pole as close as possible,
include decorative elements.
The electrical meter shall not be installed on the pole. Any necessary meter or
other accessory cabinet shall be installed in the right-of-way, away from the
street at a location approved by the City and said cabinet shall meet all
location and landscaping requirements of this Zoning Ordinance.
Lighting. Unless otherwise required for compliance with FAA or FCC regulations,
the facility shall not include any permanently installed lights. The City may
require the applicant to install functional streetlights when technically
feasible and the City determines that such additions will enhance the overall
appearance and usefulness of the proposed facility.
Code compliance. All small wireless facilities shall comply with Iowa
electrical safety code, the national electrical safety code, applicable fire
safety codes, and the City building code.
Wireless facility and utility pole height. The maximum height from the finished
ground surface to the top of a new monopole structure for a wireless facility
or a wireless facility mounted on a utility pole shall be the greater of, ten
(10) feet greater than the height of the existing pole, forty (40) feet, or the
height regulations in the applicable zoning district.
Cabling. All cabling shall primarily be internal to the pole. Any exposed
cabling, external to the pole, shall be minimized.
Underground requirements. The City may deny requests to install structures and
facilities in the right of way or on City property in an area where the City
has required all structures and facilities except those owned by the City to be
placed underground or elsewhere in the right of way or a utility easement.
These areas are easily identifiable as those locations where electric has been
placed underground; however, if an applicant is uncertain as to whether such
facilities have been placed underground in the area, the applicant should
contact the City for clarification before applying for or installing any
wireless support structures and/or small wireless facilities in the area. The
applicant may request a waiver if the operator is unable to achieve its service
objective using a location in the right of way or on City property where the
prohibition does not apply, in a utility easement the operator has the right to
access, or in or on other suitable locations or structures made available by
the City at reasonable lease rates, fees, and terms.
Historic areas. Small wireless facilities shall not be located in any area
designated as an area of historical significance or on designated local
historic landmarks.
Approval. The Administrator shall approve or deny a request for small wireless
facilities within ninety (90) days from the request. A permit application for
small wireless facility shall follow the standards listed in Iowa Code 8C.7A(3)
(c)(2) and 8C.7A(3)(c)(3). A written decision shall be provided to the
applicant, and if denied, the ordinance provisions or standards on which the
denial is based.
Fees. Application fees for permits to site small cell facilities shall conform
to the requirements of Iowa Code §8C.7A and recurring annual fees per small
wireless facility shall be fixed at the presumptively reasonable rate of $270/
year as provided in the FCC Declaratory Ruling and Order 18-133 at ¶79. The
City, however, reserves the right to conduct cost studies and to adjust such
fees, from time to time, to the extent permitted by applicable state and
federal laws and regulations.
Exceptions. The City recognizes that in some circumstances strict compliance
with these guidelines may result in undesirable aesthetic outcomes and that
minor deviations should be granted when the need for such deviation arises from
circumstances outside the applicant's control.
Violation and Removal. Small wireless facilities alleged in violation shall
follow the standards and procedures in Iowa Code 8C.7B.
Telecommunication Tower.
Conflicts; Controlling Provisions. To the extent this Section conflicts with
this Zoning Ordinance, or any other ordinance of the city, this Section shall
control.
Interpretation and definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, certain words,
phrases, and terms used herein shall be interpreted as stated in this section.
Unless otherwise defined, other words shall have the meanings normally ascribed
to them. Questions as to interpretation shall be resolved by the board of
adjustment. For the purposes of this chapter, the terms used have the following
meanings:
Applicant: Any person engaged in the business of providing wireless
telecommunications services or the wireless telecommunications infrastructure
required for wireless telecommunications services and who submits an
application.
Application: A request submitted by an applicant to the city of Dyersville for
the following: An eligible facilities request, to construct a new tower, for
the initial placement of transmission equipment on a wireless support
structure, for the modification of an existing tower or existing base station
that constitutes a substantial change to an existing tower or existing base
station, or any other request to construct or place transmission equipment that
does not meet the definition of an eligible facilities request.
Base Station: A structure or equipment at a fixed location that enables FCC-
licensed or authorized wireless communications between user equipment and a
communications network. The term does not encompass a tower as defined herein
or any equipment associated with a tower. Base station includes, without
limitation:
Equipment associated with wireless communications services such as private,
broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup
power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological
configuration.
Any structure other than a tower that, at the time the relevant application is
filed with the city of Dyersville under this section, supports or houses
equipment described in this Subsection that has been reviewed and approved
under the applicable zoning or siting process, or under another state or local
regulatory review process, even if the structure was not built for the sole or
primary purpose of providing that support.
The term does not include any structure that, at the time the relevant
application is filed with the city of Dyersville under this section, does not
support or house equipment described in Subsection 165.09.09.E.ii.(c) of this
section.
Collocation. The mounting or installation of transmission equipment on an
eligible support structure for the purpose of transmitting and/or receiving
radio frequency signals for communications purposes.
Electric Utility. Any owner or operator of electric transmission or
distribution facilities subject to the regulation and enforcement activities of
the Iowa Utilities Board relating to safety standards.
Eligible Facilities Request. Any request for modification of an existing tower
or base station that does not substantially change the physical dimensions of
such tower or base station, involving:
Collocation of new transmission equipment,
Removal of transmission equipment, or
Replacement of transmission equipment.
Eligible Support Structure. Any tower or base station as defined in this
section, provided that it is existing at the time the relevant application is
filed with the City of Dyersville under this section.
Wireless Support Structure. A structure that exists at the time an application
is submitted and is capable of supporting the attachment or installation of
transmission equipment in compliance with applicable codes, including but not
limited to water towers, buildings, and other structures, whether within or
outside the public right-of-way. “Wireless support structure” does not include
a tower or existing base station.
Existing. A constructed tower or base station is existing for purposes of this
section if it has been reviewed and approved under the applicable zoning or
siting process, or under another state or local regulatory review process,
provided that a tower that has not been reviewed and approved because it was
not in a zoned area when it was built, but was lawfully constructed, is
existing for purposes of this Section.
Initial Placement or Installation. The first time transmission equipment is
placed or installed on a wireless support structure.
Site. For towers not in the public right-of-way, the current boundaries of the
leased or owned property surrounding the tower and any access or utility
easements currently related to the site, and, for other eligible support
structures other than towers, that area in proximity to the structure and to
other transmission equipment already deployed on the ground.
Substantial Change. A modification substantially changes the physical
dimensions of an eligible support structure if it meets any of the following
criteria:
For towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, it increases the
height of the tower by more than ten percent (10%) or by the height of one
additional antenna array with separation from the nearest existing antenna not
to exceed twenty (20) feet, whichever is greater; for other eligible support
structures, it increases the height of the structure by more than ten percent
(10%) or more than ten (10) feet, whichever is greater;
For towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, it involves adding an
appurtenance to the body of the tower that would protrude from the edge of the
tower more than twenty (20) feet, or more than the width of the tower structure
at the level of the appurtenance, whichever is greater; for other eligible
support structures, it involves adding an appurtenance to the body of the
structure that would protrude from the edge of the structure by more than six
(6) feet;
For any eligible support structure, it involves installation of more than the
standard number of new equipment cabinets for the technology involved, but not
to exceed four cabinets; or, for towers in the public rights-of-way and base
stations, it involves installation of any new equipment cabinets on the ground
if there are no preexisting ground cabinets associated with the structure, or
else involves installation of ground cabinets that are more than ten percent
(10%) larger in height or overall volume than any other ground cabinets
associated with the structure;
It entails any excavation or deployment outside the current site;
It would defeat the concealment elements of the eligible support structure; or
It does not comply with conditions associated with the siting approval of the
construction or modification of the eligible support structure or base station
equipment, provided however that this limitation does not apply to any
modification that is non-compliant only in a manner that would not exceed the
thresholds identified in Subsection 165.09.09.E.ii.(l) of this Section.
Height shall be measured from the original support structure in cases where
deployments are or will be separated horizontally, such as on buildings’
rooftops. Otherwise, height shall be measured from the dimensions of the tower
or base station, inclusive of originally-approved appurtenances and any
modifications that were approved prior to the passage of the Spectrum Act, Pub.
L. No. 112-96, Tit. VI.
Transmission Equipment. Equipment that facilitates transmission for any FCC-
licensed or authorized wireless communication service including, but not
limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, and
regular and backup power supply. The term includes equipment associated with
wireless communications services including, but not limited to, private,
broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
Tower. Any structure built for the sole or primary purpose of supporting any
FCC-licensed or authorized antennas and their associated facilities, including
structures that are constructed for wireless communications services including,
but not limited to, private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as
unlicensed wireless services and fixed wireless services such as microwave
backhaul, and the associated site.
Utility Pole. A structure owned or operated by a public utility, municipality,
or electric utility that is designed specifically for and used to carry lines,
cable, or wires for telephone, cable television, or electricity, or to provide
lighting.
FCC.
   Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
Application Review for All Applications
Application. Applicant shall complete an application form and indicate whether
their application and intended use is for:
An eligible facilities request, construction of a new tower,
For the initial placement of transmission equipment on a wireless support
structure,
For the modification of an existing tower or existing base station that
constitutes a substantial change to an existing tower or existing base station,
or
Any other request to construct or place transmission equipment that does not
meet the definition of an eligible facilities request.
Zoning and Land Use. The City of Dyersville exercises zoning, land use,
planning, and permitting authority within the city’s territorial boundaries and
within the two-mile limit of the territorial boundaries with regard to the
siting of transmission equipment, as permitted and limited by applicable law of
the Iowa Code Chapter 8C and federal law.
Duration of Approval. The duration of the approval shall not be limited, except
that construction of the approved structure or facilities shall be commenced
within two years of final approval, including the disposition of any appeals,
and diligently pursued to completion.
Limitation of Information. The information requested for an application shall
not include information about, or evaluate an applicant’s business decisions
with respect to, the applicant’s designed service, customer demand for service,
or quality of the applicant’s service to or from a particular area or site.
Limitation of Review for Other Potential Locations or Collocation. The City of
Dyersville’s review will not:
Include evaluating the availability of other potential locations for the
placement or construction of a tower or transmission equipment, or
Require applicants to establish other options for collocation instead of the
construction of a new tower or modification of an existing tower or existing
base station that constitutes a substantial change to an existing tower or
existing base station.
Transmission Equipment and Technology. Application review shall not dictate the
type of transmission equipment or technology to be used by the applicant or
discriminate between different types of infrastructure or technology.
Radio Frequency and Environmental Impacts. The City of Dyersville shall not:
Deny an application, in whole or in part, based on perceived or alleged
environmental effects of radio frequency emissions, as provided in 47 U.S.C.
§332(c)(7)(B)(iv), or
Establish or enforce regulations or procedures for radio frequency signal
strength or the adequacy of service quality.
Impose environmental testing, sampling, or monitoring requirements or other
compliance measures for radio frequency emissions from transmission equipment
that are categorically excluded under FCC rules for radio frequency emissions
pursuant to 47.C.F.R. §1.1307(b)(1).
Removal. The City of Dyersville shall not require the removal of existing
towers, base stations, or transmission equipment, wherever located, as a
condition to approval of an application.
Emergency Power Systems. The City of Dyersville shall not prohibit the
placement of emergency power systems that comply with federal and state
environmental requirements.
Surety Requirements. The City of Dyersville shall not impose surety
requirements, including bonds, escrow, deposits, letters of credit, or any
other type of financial surety, to ensure that abandoned or unused towers or
transmission equipment can be removed.
Tower Space. The City of Dyersville shall not condition the approval of an
application on the applicant’s agreement to:
Provide space on or near the tower, base station, or wireless support structure
for the City of Dyersville or local governmental or nongovernmental services at
less than the market rate for such space, or
Provide other services via the structure or facilities at less than the market
rate for such services.
Historic Properties and Districts. The City of Dyersville may administer and
enforce zoning regulations to approve or deny applications for proposed
alterations to exterior features of designated local historic landmarks.
Applicants shall also comply with federal and state historic property laws.
Discrimination. The City of Dyersville shall not discriminate based on the
ownership, including ownership by the city, of any property, structure, or
tower when promulgating rules or procedures for siting wireless facilities or
for evaluating applications.
Open Records. All records, documents, and electronic data in the possession or
custody of the City of Dyersville personnel are subject to and disclosure of
such records shall be consistent with Iowa Code Chapter 22.
Remedies. Applicants and the City of Dyersville may bring claims related to
this ordinance to any court of competent jurisdiction.
Application Review for Applications Identified as Eligible Facilities Requests:
Application for Eligible Facilities Requests. For those applications identified
by applicant and determined by the City of Dyersville to be an eligible
facilities request, the application shall be limited to the information
necessary for the City to consider whether an application is an eligible
facilities request. The application may not require the applicant to
demonstrate a need or business case for the proposed modification.
Type of Review. Upon receipt of an application for an eligible facilities
request pursuant to this chapter, the City shall review such application to
determine whether the application so qualifies.
Timeframe for Review. Within sixty (60) days of the date on which an applicant
submits an application seeking approval under this chapter, the City of
Dyersville shall approve the application unless it determines that the
application is not covered by this chapter.
Tolling of the Timeframe for Review. The sixty (60) day review period begins to
run when the application is filed and may be tolled only by mutual agreement by
the City and the applicant, or in cases where the City determines that the
application is incomplete. The timeframe for review is not tolled by a
moratorium on the review of applications.
To toll the timeframe for incompleteness, the City must provide written notice
to the applicant within thirty (30) days of receipt of the application,
specifically delineating all missing documents or information required in the
application.
The timeframe for review begins running again when the applicant makes a
supplemental submission in response to the City’s notice of incompleteness.
Following a supplemental submission, the City of Dyersville will notify the
applicant within ten (10) days that the supplemental submission did not provide
the information identified in the original notice delineating missing
information. Second or subsequent notices of incompleteness may not specify
missing documents or information that were not delineated in the original
notice of incompleteness.
Interaction with Section 332(c)(7) of the United States Federal Code. If the
City determines that the applicant’s request is not an eligible facilities
request, the City shall notify applicant in writing and the basis of its
determination. The timeframes under Subsections 165.09.09.E.v and
165.09.09.E.vi of this section will begin to run from the issuance of the City
of Dyersville’s decision that the application is not an eligible facilities
request. To the extent such information is necessary, the city may request
additional information from the applicant to evaluate the application under
Subsections 165.09.09.E.v and 165.09.09.E.vi of this Section, pursuant to the
limitations applicable to said Sections.
Failure to Act. In the event the City fails to approve or deny a request
seeking approval under this chapter, within the timeframe for review
(accounting for any tolling), the request shall be deemed granted. The deemed
grant does not become effective until the applicant notifies the City in
writing after the review period has expired (accounting for any tolling) that
the application has been deemed granted.
Application Review for Applications Identified for New Tower Construction:
Application. For those applications identified by applicant and determined by
the City to construct a new tower, the applicant shall submit the necessary
copies and attachments of the application to the Administrator and comply with
applicable local ordinances concerning land use and the appropriate permitting
processes.
Additional Information for Residential Districts. The City may request
propagation maps solely for the purpose of identifying the location of the
coverage or capacity gap or need for applications for new towers in an area
zoned residential.
Explanation for Proposed Location: The City may require an applicant to provide
an explanation regarding the reason for choosing the proposed location for
construction of a new tower and the reason the applicant did not choose
collocation. The explanation shall include a sworn statement from an individual
who has responsibility over placement of the tower attesting that collocation
within the area determined by the applicant to meet the applicant’s radio
frequency engineering requirements for the placement of a site would not result
in the same mobile service functionality, coverage, and capacity, is
technically infeasible, or is economically burdensome to the applicant.
Timeframe for Review. Within 150 days of the date on which an applicant submits
an application seeking approval to construct a new tower, the City shall
approve or deny the application unless another date is specified in a written
agreement between the City and the applicant.
Tolling of the Timeframe for Review. The 150-day review period begins to run
when the application is filed, and may be tolled only by mutual agreement by
the City of Dyersville and the applicant, or in cases where the Board
determines that the application is incomplete. The Board shall review the
application for conformity with applicable local zoning regulations, building
permit requirements, and consistency with this chapter. The timeframe for
review is not tolled by a moratorium on the review of applications.
To toll the timeframe for incompleteness, the City must provide written notice
to the applicant within thirty (30) days of receipt of the application,
specifically delineating all missing documents or information required in the
application and the City’s timeframe to review is tolled beginning the date the
notice is sent.
The City’s timeframe of 150 days for review begins running again when the
applicant makes a supplemental submission in response to the City’s notice of
incompleteness.
The City’s 150-day timeframe for review does not toll if the City requests
information regarding any of the considerations the City may not consider as
described in this Section.
Following a supplemental submission, the City will notify the applicant within
ten days that the supplemental submission did not provide the information
identified in the original notice delineating missing information. Second or
subsequent notices of incompleteness may not specify missing documents or
information that were not delineated in the original notice of incompleteness.
The City shall make its final decision to approve or disapprove the application
in writing within the timeframe.
Failure to Act. In the event the City of Dyersville fails to approve or deny a
request seeking approval under this subsection within the timeframe for review
(accounting for any tolling), the request shall be deemed granted.
Application Review for Applications Identified for the Initial Placement or
Installation of Transmission Equipment on Wireless Support Structures,
Modification of an Existing Tower or Existing Base Station that Constitutes a
Substantial Change, or Other Requests for Construction or Placement of
Transmission Equipment that Do Not Constitute Eligible Facilities Requests:
Application. For those applications identified by applicant and determined by
the City to be for the initial placement or installation of transmission
equipment on wireless support structures, modification of an existing tower or
existing base station that constitutes a substantial change, or other requests
for construction or placement of transmission equipment that do not constitute
an eligible facilities request, the applicant shall submit the necessary copies
and attachments of the application to the community development department and
comply with applicable local ordinances concerning land use or regulations
concerning land use and zoning and the appropriate local permitting processes.
Timeframe for Review. Within 90 days of the date on which an applicant submits
an application seeking approval to construct a new tower, the City shall
approve or deny the application unless another date is specified in a written
agreement between the City and the applicant. The Board shall review the
application for conformity with applicable local zoning regulations, building
permit requirements, and consistency with Iowa Code Chapter 8C.
Tolling of the Timeframe for Review. The 90-day review period begins to run
when the application is filed, and may be tolled only by mutual agreement by
the City of Dyersville and the applicant, or in cases where the Administrator
determines that the application is incomplete. The Administrator shall review
the application for conformity with applicable local zoning regulations,
building permit requirements, and consistency with this section. The timeframe
for review is not tolled by a moratorium on the review of applications.
To toll the timeframe for incompleteness, the City must provide written notice
to the applicant within 30 days of receipt of the application, specifically
delineating all missing documents or information required in the application
and the City’s timeframe to review is tolled beginning the date the notice is
sent.
The City’s timeframe of 90 days for review begins running again when the
applicant makes a supplemental submission in response to City’s notice of
incompleteness.
The City’s 90-day timeframe for review does not toll if the City requests
information regarding any of the considerations the City may not consider as
described in this Subsection.
Following a supplemental submission, the City will notify the applicant within
ten (10) days that the supplemental submission did not provide the information
identified in the original notice delineating missing information. Second or
subsequent notices of incompleteness may not specify missing documents or
information that were not delineated in the original notice of incompleteness.
The City shall make its final decision to approve or disapprove the application
in writing within the timeframe.
Failure to Act. In the event the City fails to approve or deny a request
seeking approval under this section within the timeframe for review (accounting
for any tolling), the request shall be deemed granted.
Use Restrictions. All towers approved by a conditional use permit are subject
to the following provisions:
Telecommunication towers are allowed without regard to the height limits of the
applicable zoning district
All towers, antennae, and other telecommunication facilities shall meet or
exceed all standards and requirements of the Federal Communication Commission
(FCC), Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and any other agency of the state
or federal governments, as well as the City’s building, electrical, mechanical,
and any other applicable codes.
The maximum height that may be approved for a telecommunication tower as part
of a conditional use permit is 250 feet.
Telecommunication towers shall be set back the greater distance of:
The setback requirements of the underlying district
200 feet from any residential district or use
25 percent of the height of the tower
The distance specified as a potential hazard area by the designer of the
structure.
Guy wire anchors and accessory structures shall not encroach into the required
setbacks for principal structures in the underlying district.
Tower Design.
All telecommunication towers shall meet or exceed current published EIA/TIA
structural standards and shall have adequate load-bearing capacity to carry the
antennas of three similar providers.
Stealth and/or camouflage design of towers and antennas may be required to
reduce the visual impact of the structure, especially in residential districts.
Towers shall be a neutral color such as a non-contrasting gray or similar
color, and not include signage painted on the tower.
Lighting. Telecommunication towers shall only be illuminated as required by the
Federal Communication Commission (FCC) and/or the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA). Security lighting around the base of a tower must be
shielded so that no light is directed towards adjacent properties or rights-of-
way.
Screening. A fence or screen that is at least eight feet in height must
surround the base of a telecommunication tower. The use of barbed wire or other
security measure shall be allowed only as specifically approved.
Inspections. Telecommunication towers shall be inspected by a qualified tower
inspection service once every 36 months by the owner, operator, or a
representative to assess the structural condition of the tower and support
equipment. An inspection report shall be prepared and filed with the
Administrator. The required report shall certify that the tower continues to
meet or exceed the current published EIA/TIA structural standards and is in
sound and safe operating condition.
Additional Antennae or Transmission Equipment. In accordance with the Middle
Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, it is intended that collocation
of additional antennas on towers authorized pursuant to this Item, or the
removal and replacement of transmission equipment on an existing wireless
telecommunication tower or base station shall be permitted, provided the tower
has the structural capacity to carry the antenna and that the approved
development plan accommodates the siting of any required support facilities,
and provided that this action does not substantially change the physical
dimensions (e.g. height, gross floor area, building coverage, guy wire span,
etc.) of the tower or base station.
WECS (Wind Energy Conservation System).
The distance from all lot lines or any building or power line to any tower
support base of a WECS shall be equal to the sum of the tower height and the
diameter of the rotor. A reduction of this requirement may be granted as part
of referral to the Council for approval if the City Council, after
recommendation by the Commission, finds that the reduction is consistent with
public health, safety, and welfare.
The distance between the tower support bases of any two WECS shall be the
minimum of five (5) rotor lengths, determined by the size of the largest rotor.
A reduction of this requirement may be granted as part of a referred approval
if the City Council, after recommendation by the Commission, finds that the
reduction does not impede the operation of either WECS.
Any tower or rotor shall maintain a distance of at least 100 horizontal feet
from any structure, power line, or antenna located on another property.
The WECS operation shall not interfere with radio, television, computer, or
other electronic operations on adjacent properties.
A fence eight (8) feet high with a locking gate shall be placed around any WECS
tower base; or the tower climbing apparatus shall begin no lower than twelve
(12) feet above ground.
The height of the WECS may exceed the height restrictions of the base district
by up to 50%. The bottom tip of any rotor must be at least ten (10) feet above
any area accessible to pedestrians.
Outdoor Storage. Outdoor storage is permitted only as provided in this
Subsection, Table 165.05.15.01, Permitted Accessory and Temporary Uses, and any
applicable use conditions listed in this Zoning Ordinance.
Agricultural Use Types. Outdoor storage is permitted, as listed in Table
165.05.15.01, Permitted Accessory and Temporary Uses, only where incidental to
agricultural uses.
Residential Uses and Property. Except as otherwise provided by this Zoning
Ordinance, any goods, equipment, materials, machinery, and parts thereof stored
on any residentially zoned property must be:
Stored in completely enclosed buildings; or
In spaces not more than five percent (5%) of the lot size and screened by
fencing and/or evergreen shrubbery providing at least an 80% screen and having
a height of no less than six (6) feet nor more than eight (8) feet.
Civic Use Types. Outdoor storage is permitted, as listed in Table 165.05.15.01,
Permitted Accessory and Temporary Uses, only:
Where incidental to Maintenance Facilities; or
In completely enclosed buildings or in spaces screened by fencing and/or
evergreen shrubbery providing at least an 80% screen and having a height of no
less than six (6) feet nor more than eight (8) feet.
Commercial Use Types. Outdoor storage is permitted, as listed in Table
165.05.15.01, Permitted Accessory and Temporary Uses, where incidental to any
use provided that such storage:
Occupies a maximum of ten percent (10%) of the gross floor area of the
principal building; and
Is completely screened at property lines by an opaque barrier, as set forth in
Subsection 165.08.06, Bufferyard and Screening Provisions.
These provisions shall apply to any established use after the effective date of
this Zoning Ordinance.
Where provisions for outdoor storage are listed in other Sections of this
Zoning Ordinance, those Section provisions apply over the provisions listed
above, Subsection 165.09.10.D.
Industrial and Miscellaneous Use Types. Outdoor storage is permitted, as listed
in Table 165.05.15.01, Permitted Accessory and Temporary Uses, where it is
incidental to industrial uses provided that such storage:
Is subject to screening requirements set forth in Subsection 165.08.06,
Bufferyard and Screening Provisions.
Fence Regulations.
Corner Visibility. In any residential district, no fence or continuous planting
shall be maintained within thirty (30) feet of any corner lot street line
intersection which would impair the sight distance of the operator of a motor
vehicle.
Location. No fences are permitted in the public street right-of-way and shall
be erected and maintained to avoid limiting or obstructing the flow of water in
natural drainage courses, or drainageways created within easements.
Easements. Any fence erected on a tract of land subject to an easement for the
construction, maintenance, operations, or replacement of any water, sanitary or
storm sewer, gas line, electric power, telephone, or other utility poles, or
other cables or lines shall be designed and constructed to be readily removable
to permit the use of the easement. Such fences shall be subject to removal by
request whenever necessary to permit access. The cost of removal or replacement
shall be the responsibility of the owner of the fence.
Materials. The following materials shall be required:
Fences shall be constructed of wood, chain-link, PVC/ resin, stone or masonry
materials, or ornamental metals only.
Wood fences shall use standard building lumber only.
Barbed wire fences are not permitted except for in the A-1 and I-3 districts
and are defined as any fence that includes in its material barbs, blades,
razors, electric current, or other features specifically designed to injure or
abrade an individual or animal who attempts to negotiate the fence.
Wire mesh fences may be permitted to enclose tennis courts and game and
recreation areas on public land and residential lots.
Permit. No fence shall be constructed or reconstructed without a building
permit issued pursuant to Subsubsection 165.03.04.D, Building Permit of this
Zoning Ordinance.
Height.
Residential Districts. No fence or continuous planting over three (3) feet in
height shall be maintained in any front yard; no fence or continuous planting
over four (4) feet in height shall be maintained in any side yard; and no fence
or continuous planting over eight (8) feet in height shall be maintained in a
rear yard.
Civic Uses in Residential Districts. The maximum height of fences installed as
part of Primary and Secondary Educational Facilities, Day Care, and Park and
Recreation Use Types, or any other use that provides secured outdoor space for
the use of children within residential zoning Districts shall be eight (8)
feet.
Non-Residential Districts. The maximum height of a fence for any permitted use
in any non-residential zoning district shall be eight (8) feet, except that
fences shall not be permitted in the front yard of commercial and civic
districts.
Appeals. Denial, revocations, or cancellations of a building permit based on
the provisions of this Subsection may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment,
as set forth in Subsubsection 165.03.04.M, Appeals.
Accessory Uses. Accessory uses and accessory buildings and structures include,
but are not limited to, those set out in this Section and permitted in Table
165.05.15.01, Permitted Accessory and Temporary Uses.
Permitted Accessory Uses: All Districts. The following requirements are in
addition to the permitted accessory uses in 165.05.15.01, Permitted Accessory
and Temporary Uses:
Fallout and storm shelters, provided they shall not be used for any principal
use or accessory use that is not permitted in the district in which it is
located.
Solar energy systems and their condensers and energy storage provided:
Ground or structure mounted equipment are subject to the same setback
requirements as accessory structures.
Coverage. Ground systems for residential properties shall not exceed one-tenth
(1/10) of the footprint of the principal building served or one hundred (100)
square feet, whichever is greater. Ground systems for non-residential
properties shall not exceed one-half (1/2) of the footprint of the principal
structure building served. Measurement of the system shall be based upon the
area of the solar receiving panel, regardless of the adjustment angle of the
panel.
May encroach into the height and setback regulations according to Subsection
165.06.21, Development Exceptions.
Damaged or inoperable equipment is removed within sixty (60) days.
Building or structure mounted telecommunication antennas on existing
structures, such as water towers and telecommunication towers, except in area
of designated historical significance and designated local historic landmarks.
Satellite dishes and antennas which are freestanding and accessory to a primary
use and are designed to receive and transmit electromagnetic signals, or to
receive signals from satellites, shall not be located within any front yard of
the primary use, setback at least ten (10) feet from all property lines, and
limited to fifteen (15) feet in height.
When mounted to a building, all cabling must be run internally when feasible,
securely attached, and as inconspicuous as practicable. All equipment shall be
setback five (5) feet from all lot lines.
Permitted Accessory Uses: Agricultural Use Types. The following requirements
are in addition to the permitted accessory uses in 165.05.15.01, Permitted
Accessory and Temporary Uses:
Other uses and activities necessarily and customarily associated with the
purpose and functions of agricultural uses.
Buildings that directly serve and are required for the conduct of crop and
animal production, are exempt from requirements for building permits and
inspections. Structures that house other uses are subject to the requirements
of this ordinance, even if located on property zoned or primarily zoned or used
for agricultural purposes.
Permitted Accessory Uses: Residential Uses. The following requirements are in
addition to the permitted accessory uses in 165.05.15.01, Permitted Accessory
and Temporary Uses:
Private garages and parking for the residency use.
Storage structures incidental to a permitted use.
Recreational activities and uses by residents.
Home occupations, subject to the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.
Non-commercial convenience services for the primary use of residents of multi-
family uses or mobile home parks, including laundromats, clubhouses, and post
offices.
Shipping containers are not allowed in residential zones. A temporary shipping
container can be approved by the Administrator when accessory to a project that
has a valid residential building permit. A temporary shipping container is
allowed at a residential building site for up to 180 consecutive days for
temporary storage after the building permit is issued.
Permitted Accessory Uses: Non-Residential Use Types and Districts. Other use
types may include the following accessory uses, activities, and structures on
the same lot, in addition to the permitted accessory uses in 165.05.15.01,
Permitted Accessory and Temporary Uses:
Accessory uses permitted for residential uses.
Parking for the principal use.
Manufacturing or fabrication of products made for sale in a principal
commercial use, provided such manufacturing is totally contained within the
structure housing the principal use.
Retail Sale of Consumer Fireworks in the C-2 district subject to approval of a
conditional use permit by the Board of Adjustment and in accordance to the
Retail Sale of Consumer Fireworks policy by the City Council.
Services operated for the sole benefit of employees of the principal use.
Shipping containers are allowed in industrial districts, provided, that the use
is in conformance with current permitted zoning uses.
Shipping containers used only for storage do not require a building permit or
engineering foundation.
Accessory Use Standards.
Building Permit. A building permit is required prior to placement of a
structure larger than 200 square feet in area.
Setbacks. Accessory buildings are subject to all site development regulations
of its zoning district, except as provided below:
Side Yards. An accessory building may be located a minimum of five (5) feet
from the side lot line of the property if it is located in an area from six (6)
feet behind the rear building line of the principal building to the rear
property line and is under fifteen (15) feet in height. An additional one foot
setback is required for every two feet above fifteen (15) feet in height, up to
the minimum requirements of the zoning district.
Front Yards. No accessory building may be located between the front building
line of the principal building and the front property line.
Rear Yard. The minimum rear yard setback for accessory buildings shall be five
(5) feet. The sum of the width of the alley and the rear yard setback shall be
at least twenty (20) feet if the accessory building is a garage with a
vehicular entrance door that is directly oriented toward an alley. Double-
frontage lots shall require front-yard setbacks along both street frontages as
required by the individual zoning district. Easements may be incorporated into
these required setbacks. No accessory building shall be located within any
easement or right-of-way along the rear property line.
Street Yards: No accessory building shall be located within twenty (20) feet
from any street right-of-way line.
Garage Setbacks: Any detached garage that fronts on a public street must be set
back at least twenty (20) feet from such street, regardless of the setback
requirement within the zoning district. This shall not be interpreted to waive
a larger required minimum setback required by the zoning district.
Garage Setback Illustrative Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1892.png]
 
Residential Accessory Building Size.
The maximum size of a detached garage for a single-family detached, single-
family attached, or duplex residential uses shall not exceed the larger of 720
square feet, or 33% of the building coverage of the main residential structure.
A detached garage may exceed these maximums subject to approval of a
Conditional Use Permit and other requirements of this Section.
All accessory buildings on a site, taken together with the principal structure
(s), must comply with the building coverage requirements for the zoning
district.
Height. In residential districts, the maximum height shall be twenty (20) feet
for any accessory building.
Design. Exterior building materials and architectural designs used for detached
garages in residential districts shall be comparable to, or similar to, or
architecturally harmonious with, the existing main residential structure.
Other Standards for Accessory Buildings.
Separation from Other Buildings: No accessory building shall be placed within
five (5) feet of any other building on its own property.
Attached Accessory Buildings: Any accessory building physically attached to the
principal building shall be considered part of the principal building and
subject to the development regulations of its zoning district, except as
modified in this Section.
Hazards: Any accessory use that creates a potential fire hazard shall be
located a minimum of ten (10) feet from any residential structure. Such uses
include but are not limited to detached fireplaces, barbecue ovens, or storage
of flammable materials.
No accessory building shall be built upon any lot until construction of the
principal building has begun.
Temporary Uses. These provisions are intended to permit occasional, temporary
uses and activities, when consistent with the objectives of this Zoning
Ordinance and compatible with surrounding uses, as listed in 165.05.15.01,
Permitted Accessory and Temporary Uses. They are further intended to prevent
temporary uses from assuming the character of permanent uses.
Roadside Stand. Retail operation of roadside stands associated with a primary
agricultural use may be permitted in the A-1 District, subject to the following
requirements:
A roadside stand is a facility used on a temporary or seasonal basis for the
retail sale of produce grown largely on adjacent or surrounding agricultural
lands.
A roadside stand may be located within a required front yard but no closer than
forty (40) feet to the edge of a traveled roadway.
A roadside stand may operate for a maximum of 180 days in any one year.
Garage sales. Provided that the frequency of such sales at any one location are
limited to one (1) sale of no more than three (3) days duration in a month, and
three (3) sales during any twelve (12) month period.
Development sales offices. Such offices may remain in place until 90% of the
lots or units within the development are sold and may not be located within a
mobile home or manufactured home/structure.
Public assemblies, displays, and exhibits.
Commercial circuses, carnivals, fairs, festivals, or other transient events.
Provided that events are located on property owned by the sponsoring non-profit
organization, or are located within an A-1, C-1, C-2, C-3, I-1, I-2, or I-
3 zoning district. Such uses shall not exceed eight (8) weeks in duration
without approval from the City.
Outdoor art shows and exhibits.
Outdoor Commercial or Seasonal sales. Including Christmas tree or other
holiday-related merchandise sales lots, provided that such facilities are not
located in a residential zoning district.
Construction site offices. If located on the construction site itself.
Outdoor special sales. Provided that such sales operate no more than three (3)
days in the same week and five (5) days in the same month and are located in
commercial or industrial zoning districts.
Construction Batch Plants. In the I-1, I-2, or I-3 District, provided that:
No plant may be located within 600 feet of a developed residential use, park,
or school.
The facility is located no more than one (1) mile from its job site. The
Administrator may extend this distance to two (2) miles, if such extension
avoids use of local streets by plant-related vehicles.
Hours of operation do not exceed twelve (12) hours per day.
The duration of the plant's operation does not exceed 180 days.
Additional temporary uses that the Administrator determines to be similar to
the previously described uses in this section.
Conditions for all Temporary Uses.
Each site shall be left free of debris, litter, or other evidence of the use
upon its completion or removal with trash containers and recycling container
placed near the area for exhibits, assemblies, and shows.
Temporary buildings shall comply with all site development regulations of the
respective zoning district.
All temporary uses shall comply with access and circulation requirements of the
Dyersville Code of Ordinances.
All temporary uses shall comply with signage and lighting requirements of the
Dyersville Code of Ordinances.
The Administrator may establish other conditions that he/she deems necessary to
ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses. Examples include but are not
limited to:
Hours of operation.
Proof general liability insurance for the event.
Provision of public safety enhancements.
165.10   SIGN REGULATIONS
   Purpose. It is the purpose of this Section to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare through reasonable, consistent, and non-
discriminatory sign standards. The sign regulations in this Section are not
intended to censor speech or to regulate viewpoints, but instead are intended
to regulate the adverse secondary effects of signs. The sign regulations are
especially intended to address the secondary effects that may adversely impact
aesthetics and traffic and pedestrian safety. The sign regulations are designed
to serve substantial governmental interests and, in some cases, compelling
governmental interests such as traffic safety and warning signs of threats to
bodily injury or death. This Section is not intended to extend its regulatory
regime to objects that are not traditionally considered signs for purpose of
government regulation. This Section establishes sign regulations, including
provisions to control the type, design, size, location, and maintenance of
signs, to achieve the following purposes:
To enable the public to locate goods, services, and facilities without
difficulty or confusion;
To protect property values, public investment, and overall neighborhood
character by preventing conditions that have undesirable impacts on surrounding
properties;
To promote the development of attractive and harmonious residential districts,
viable retail and commercial districts, and appropriately identify industrial
uses;
To ensure signs are designed and located to reduce distraction and confusion
that may be contributing factors to traffic congestion or accidents and
maintain a safe and orderly pedestrian and vehicular environment; and
To enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these sign regulations and to
provide standards regarding the non-communicative aspects of signs.
Application. Signs shall be designed, erected, altered, moved, displayed, and
maintained in accordance with the regulations set forth in this Section.
The provisions in this Section shall not amend or in any way interfere with
other codes, rules, or regulations governing traffic signs within the City.
The regulations contained in this Section shall apply to signs outside of the
public right-of-way, except when specifically stated otherwise.
The owner of any sign, which is otherwise permitted by this Section, may
substitute noncommercial copy or message in lieu of any other commercial or
noncommercial sign copy of message.
Conflicts. This Section is not meant to repeal or interfere with enforcement of
other sections of the City of Dyersville Code of Ordinances. In cases of
conflicts between local, state, or federal regulations, the more restrictive
regulations shall apply.
Exceptions. The following are not regulated by this Zoning Ordinance, so long
as they meet the applicable standards described below:
Building Identification Signs. Building identification signs not exceeding one
(1) square foot in area for residential buildings and two (2) square feet in
area for nonresidential buildings.
Business Name and Address on an Entry Door. Name of a business, address
information, and/or contact information displayed on an entry door, not
exceeding two (2) square feet in area.
Signs Posted on a Community Bulletin Board. Signs posted on a community
bulletin board shall not exceed 11 x 17 inches.
Signs located on residential property under four (4) square feet in size, not
including portable signs.
Historic and Architectural Features. Historical plaques erected and maintained
by non-profit organizations, building cornerstones, and date-constructed stones
not exceeding four (4) square feet in area.
Signs Not Readable from the Public Right-of-Way.
Signs or displays located entirely inside of a building and not visible from
the building’s exterior;
Signs intended to be readable from within a parking area but not readable
beyond the boundaries of the lot or parcel upon which they are located or from
any public right-of-way; and
Signs located on or within City park and recreation facilities.
Governmental Signs. Any sign, posting, notice, or similar signs placed,
installed or required by law by a city, county, or a federal or state
governmental agency in carrying out its responsibility to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare, including, but not limited to, the following:
Emergency and warning signs necessary for public safety or civil defense;
Traffic signs erected and maintained by an authorized public agency;
Signs required to be displayed by law;
Signs directing the public to points of interest; and
Signs showing the location of public facilities.
Prohibited Signs and Elements. The following sign types and elements are not
allowed anywhere in the City because of their potential to create distractions
to the traveling public and create visual clutter that impacts the natural and
architectural aesthetics of the City:
Abandoned signs.
Animated signs.
Balloon signs.
Blinking or flashing signs. No flashing, blinking, or rotation lights shall be
permitted for either permanent or temporary signs.
Inflatable signs.
Intermittent signs.
Moving signs. No sign shall be permitted any part of which moves by any
mechanical means.
Signs emitting sound, smoke, or odors.
Signs attached or painted on trees, rocks, fences, or natural features
Signs in the right-of-way except for those placed by a public entity, approved
banners on utility or light poles, projecting signs as allowed in this Section,
or other signs approved by the City.
Signs or sign support structures that obstruct means of egress, including any
fire escape, window, door opening, stairway, opening, exit, walkway, utility
access, or Fire Department connection.
Signs that interfere with any required opening for ventilation.
Signs or sign structures which resemble, imitate, simulate, or conflict with
traffic control signs or devices included in the Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices, which otherwise mislead or confuse persons traveling on public
streets, which create a traffic hazard.
Signs displayed on motor vehicles and portable storage units, unless:
The vehicle or storage units are functional and used for their primary purpose.
The display is incidental to the use.
The motor vehicle is parked in a designated parking or loading space, and the
storage unit is located in a location that complies with all standards of this
Zoning Ordinance.
Signs not expressly allowed by this Section.
Measurements and Illustrations. For regulating signs as described in this
chapter the following shall apply:
Sign Area. Computation of sign area shall include the combination of the
writing, emblem, illustrations or other display, together with any background
material or color forming an integral part of the display, but not including
the supporting framework. On a multi-face sign the area is computed only from
one face. Where the frame or cabinet is not in the shape of a rectangle,
square, triangle or circle, the sign face area shall be determined by
calculating the area of an imaginary rectangle drawn around the frame or
cabinet.
Height. Height shall be measured from average ground level exclusive of any
filling, berming, mounding, or excavating solely for locating the sign, to the
highest point of the sign or support structure, whichever is taller.
Projection. Any building sign extending more than six (6) inches from the wall
to which it is attached shall allow a minimum of ten (10) feet of clearance
from the average ground level, as measured in Subsubsection B of this
Subsection.
Setback. The setback of a sign is measured from the property line to the line
projected to the ground plane of the nearest portion of the sign.
Sign Type and Area Illustrative Examples
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ff44f5c6b218f039916b29528877560068d8c167/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1894.png]
 
General Sign Regulations.
Design Standards. The guidelines set out in this Subsection address issues
related to sign compatibility, legibility, placement, color, and illumination.
They are intended to complement the standards of this Section and to guide
quality visual environments.
Illumination of signs. Lighted signs facing and on property adjacent to or
across a street or alley from a residential district shall not be backlit and
shall be no closer than twenty (20) feet from the nearest residential district
boundary.
Sign Electrical Raceways and Conduits. Electrical transformer boxes and
raceways should be concealed from public view. If a raceway cannot be mounted
internally behind the finished exterior wall, the exposed metal surfaces of the
raceway should be finished to match the background wall or integrated into the
overall sign design.
Wall Signs.
A wall sign shall not extend more than 18 inches from the wall to which it is
attached.
A wall sign may not extend beyond the corner of the wall to which it is
attached, except where attached to another wall sign, it may extend to provide
for the attachment.
A wall sign may not extend beyond its building's roof line.
A wall sign in the C-3 District attached to a building on its front property
line may encroach upon public right-of-way by no more than 18 inches. Such a
wall sign shall provide minimum clearance of 8.5 feet.
Projecting Signs.
Within the C-3 District, a projecting sign may come within five (5) feet from
the vertical plane of the inside curb line.
Projecting signs must minimize visible support structure, including guy wires,
cables, turnbuckles, angle iron, or other similar external support structure.
Pole Signs.
Permitted pole signs may revolve at a rate not to exceed six (6) revolutions
per minute to not be classified as a moving sign which is prohibited in this
Zoning Ordinance.
No electronic information sign shall be programmed in a way that suggests or
resembles a traffic control device, such as a traffic signal.
Banner and Flag Signs. Banner and flag signs count against the attached wall
sign area permitted on premise.
Detached Signs.
The area around the base of the sign shall be maintained by the sign owner or
property owner in clean condition. A radius of five (5) feet around the base of
the sign shall be landscaped with natural materials in accordance with the
provisions of Subsection 165.08.03, General Requirements, applying the
treatment described in Subsection 165.08.04, Planting Standards .
Business and Industrial Centers. In addition to its total permitted sign area
in Subsection 165.10.09, Permitted Sign Design Regulations, each premises
identified by the City as a business or industrial park may have one additional
detached sign located at the entrance to the park, subject to the following
conditions:
The maximum area for the sign shall be 100 square feet;
No sign shall be within 150 feet of any other detached sign on the same or
adjacent premises; and
Each sign shall be subject to all other regulations for detached signs or
graphics set forth in this Section.
Driveway Signs. Driveway signs are in the P-1, C-2, I-1, I-2, and I-3 districts
in addition to the total permitted sign area in 165.10.09.02 and 165.10.09.04
Detached Sign Regulations to direct internal traffic, identify parking areas,
or supply other information, given that driveway signs are:
No larger than three (3) square feet per face;
If building mounted, no higher than eight (8) feet from grade;
If freestanding, no higher than three (3) feet from grade; and
A maximum of one (1) at each driveway or drive through lane.
Additional Signs at Entrances. In addition to its total permitted sign area in
165.10.09.02 and 165.10.09.04, Detached Sign Regulations, each property in the
P-1, C-2, I-1, I-2, and I-3 district may have one (1) non-illuminated sign with
a maximum size of twelve (12) square feet within twenty (20) feet of a public
right-of-way that provides access to the property. Such sign shall be a
monument or ground sign with a maximum height of four (4) feet.
Permitted Sign Types by District. Table 165.10.08.01, Permitted Signs below
indicates the permitted sign types by each zoning district. Additional design
standards and restrictions apply as may be indicated in this Section. The
letters indicate the following:
“P” means that the sign type is permitted for all uses in the district.
“P(L)” means that the sign type is permitted but limited to principal non-
residential and multi-family uses, listed in Subsection 165.05.14, Use Matrix.
“N” means that the sign type is not permitted in the district.
Permitted Signs
Sign Types A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Sign Types       A-1 A-2 R-1  R-2  R-3  C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3 P-1 PC
Detached Signs
Residential      P   P   P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Ground           P   P   P(L) P(L) P(L) P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Pole             N   N   N    N    N    N   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Attached Signs
Awning           N   N   N    N    N    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Banner           N   N   N    N    N    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Canopy           N   N   N    N    N    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Marquee          N   N   N    N    N    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Projecting       N   N   N    N    N    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Roof             N   N   N    N    N    N   P   N   P   P   P   N   N
Wall             P   P   P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Window           P   P   P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Miscellaneous
Off-Premise Sign N   N   N    N    N    N   P   N   P   P   P   P   P
Portable         P   P   P    P    P    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Flag Sign        N   N   N    N    N    N   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 
Permitted Sign Design Regulations.
Off-Premise Signs
 
Sign Types A-1 A-2 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2     C-3 I-1   I-2      I-3      P-1 PC
                                   Only
                                   within
Permitted                          250         Only within 250 feet of
Area1                              feet of     U.S. Hwy 20.
                                   U.S.         
                                   Hwy 20.
           N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A        N/A                         N/A N/A
Total size                         500         500
allocation                         s.f.        s.f.  500 s.f. 500 s.f.
on premise
Height                             60 ft       60 ft 60 ft    60 ft
Maximum
number of                          1           1     1        1
signs
Notes:
1. Separated by 1,000 feet from any other off-premise sign and 300 feet from
any other detached sign or residential district
 
Detached Sign Regulations, Agricultural, Residential, and Public Districts
Detached Signs A-1 A-2 R-1, R-2, R-3 P-1 PC
Detached     A-1         A-2           R-1, R-2, R-3 P-1           PC
Signs
                                                     One square
             100 square  50 square     50 square     foot per
Total size   feet for    feet for non- feet for non- linear foot
allocation   non-        residential   residential   of street     Same as A-1
on premise   residential and multi-    and multi-    frontage;
             uses        family uses   family uses   maximum 250
                                                     sf.
                                                     6 square feet
             6 square    6 square feet 6 square feet for
             feet for    for           for           residential
            residential residential   residential   uses; 50      Same as A-1
             uses        uses          uses          square feet
                                                     for multi-
                                                     family uses
Maximum                                              1 per 200 feet of street
number of    2           1             1             frontage, maximum of 2
signs                                                per frontage1
             Subject to
Residential  maximum     1             1             1             1
             number
             Subject to                              1 per
Ground       maximum     0             0             frontage      1
             number
             Subject to                              1 per
Pole         maximum     0             0             frontage      0
             number
Maximum area 100 square  NA            NA            200 square    100 square
per sign     feet                                    feet          feet
Illumination Not         Indirect and internal permitted for non-residential
             Permitted   and multi-family principal uses
Electronic   Not         Not Permitted Not Permitted Permitted     Permitted
Message      Permitted
Maximum height of signs2
Residential  6 feet      6 feet        6 feet        6 feet        6 feet
Ground       10 feet     10 feet       10 feet       10 feet       10 feet
Pole         NA          NA            NA            14 feet       NA
Setback from Property Line
Front and
Street Side  25 feet     5 feet        5 feet        5 feet        5 feet
Yard
Side Yard    10 feet     5 feet        5 feet        5 feet        5 feet
Notes:
1. Frontage applies to sides of the lot line that face a public street where
each frontage is treated independently of other frontages; however, that no
sign shall be located closer than 50 feet to another sign measured in a
straight line distance.
2. Signs shall not project above the roofline greater than 3 feet.
 
Attached Sign Regulations, Agricultural, Residential, and Public Districts
Attached Signs1 A-1 A-2 R-1, R-2, R-3 P-1 PC
Attached     A-1         A-2         R-1, R-2, R-3 P-1           PC
Signs1
                         32 square                 2 square feet
                         feet for    32 square     per linear    32 square
Total size   32 square   non-        feet for non- foot of       feet for non-
allocation   feet        residential residential   building      residential
on premise               and multi-  and multi-    frontage up   and multi-
                         family uses family uses   to 500 square family uses
                                                   feet
             3 square    3 square    3 square feet 3 square feet 3 square feet
             feet for    feet for    for           for           for
             residential residential residential   residential   residential
             uses        uses        uses          uses          uses
Maximum      1 per       1 per       1 per         No limit      No limit
number of    building    building    building      within size   within size
signs        façade     façade     façade       allocation    allocation
Maximum                                                          15% of wall
area per                                           20% of wall   surface; 40%
sign for     32 square   32 square   32 square     surface; 40%  of window
wall and     feet        feet        feet          of window     area subject
window                                             area          to total
signs2                                                           allowed size
                                                                 allocation
Illumination No          No          No            Yes; internal Yes; Internal
                                                   or indirect   or indirect
Electronic   Not         Not         Not Permitted Permitted     Permitted
Message      Permitted   Permitted
Notes:
1. Signs shall not project above the roofline greater than 3 feet.
2. A wall sign shall not extend more than 18 inches from the wall to which it
is attached
 
Detached Sign Regulations, Commercial and Industrial Districts
Detached Signs C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3
Detached     C-1        C-2        C-3        I-1        I-2        I-3
Signs
             One (1)    One (1.5)  One (1.5)  One (1.5)  One (1.5)  One (1.5)
             sq. ft. of sq. ft. of sq. ft. of sq. ft. of sq. ft. of sq. ft. of
             signage    signage    signage    signage    signage    signage per
Total size   per one    per one    per one    per one    per one    one (1) ft.
allocation   (1) ft. of (1) ft. of (1) ft. of (1) ft. of (1) ft. of of
on premise   frontage;  frontage;  frontage;  frontage;  frontage;  frontage;
             maximum of maximum of maximum of maximum of maximum of maximum of
             150 square 500 square 150 square 500 square 500 square 500 square
             feet       feet       feet       feet       feet       feet
             1 per 300  1 per 200
Maximum      feet of    feet of
number of    street     street                1 per 300 feet of street
detached     frontage,  frontage,  1          frontage, maximum of 2 per
signs        maximum of maximum of            frontage1
             2 per      2 per
             frontage1  frontage1
                                   Subject to
Residential  1          1          maximum    1          1          1
                                   number
             1 per      2 per      Subject to 2 per      2 per      2 per
Ground       frontage   frontage   maximum    frontage   frontage   frontage
                                   number
             1 per      1 per      Subject to 1 per      1 per      1 per
Pole         frontage   frontage   maximum    frontage   frontage   frontage
                                   number
Maximum area 64 square  250 square 150 square 250 square 250 square 250 square
per sign     feet       feet       feet       feet       feet       feet
Illumination Indirect and internal permitted for non-residential and multi-
             family principal uses
Electronic   Permitted  Permitted  Permitted  Permitted  Permitted  Permitted
Message
Maximum height of signs2
Residential  6 feet     6 feet     6 feet     6 feet     6 feet     6 feet
Ground       15 feet    20 feet    15 feet    20 feet    20 feet    20 feet
Pole         25 feet    60 feet    10 feet    35 feet    60 feet    60 feet
Setback from Property Line
Front and
Street Side  5 feet     5 feet     0 feet     5 feet     5 feet     5 feet
Yard
Side Yard    5 feet     5 feet     0 feet     5 feet     5 feet     5 feet
Notes:
1. Frontage applies to sides of the lot line that face a public street where
each frontage is treated independently of other frontages; however, that no
sign shall be located closer than 50 feet to another.
2. Signs shall not project above the roofline greater than 3 feet.
Attached Sign Regulations, Commercial and Industrial Districts
Attached Signs1 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2 I-3
Attached     C-1         C-2         C-3         I-1         I-2         I-3
Signs1
Total size   300 square  500 square  250 square  300 square  300 square  500 square
allocation   feet        feet        feet        feet        feet        feet
on premise
            3 square feet for residential uses
Maximum
number of    No limit within size allocation
signs
             20% of wall 20% of wall             15% of wall 15% of wall 15% of wall
Maximum area surface and surface and 15% of wall surface and surface and surface and
per sign for 40% of      40% of      surface;    40% of      40% of      40% of
wall and     window area window area 40% of      window area window area window area
window       up to 150   up to 300   window area up to 300   up to 300   up to 300
signs3       square feet square feet 3           square feet square feet square feet
             per sign    per sign                per sign    per sign    per sign
                                     Wall:
             Indirect    Indirect    Indirect    Indirect    Indirect    Indirect
             and         and         and         and         and         and
             internal    internal    internal    internal    internal    internal
             permitted   permitted   permitted   permitted   permitted   permitted
             for non-    for non-    for non-    for non-    for non-    for non-
Illumination residential residential residential residential residential residential
             and multi-  and multi-  and multi-  and multi-  and multi-  and multi-
             family      family      family      family      family      family
             principal   principal   principal   principal   principal   principal
             uses        uses        uses.       uses        uses        uses
                                     Window:
                                     None
Electronic   Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes         Yes
Message
Projection2  Yes, but shall not extend outward from the building more than 4 feet
Notes:
1. Signs shall not project above the roofline greater than 3 feet.
2. Shall provide clearance of 8 feet above pedestrian walkways and 15 feet above
driveways.
3. A wall sign shall not extend more than 18 inches from the wall to which it is
attached.
 
Portable (Temporary) Signs. The purpose of these regulations is to ensure that
portable signs do not create a distraction to the traveling public by
eliminating the aesthetic blight and litter caused by portable signs.
Sign Types. The following signs types are classified as portable signs:
A-Frame or upright signs.
Vertical banners. Only permitted in non-residential districts and not permitted
in the C-3 district.
Yard Signs.
Wall banner. Only permitted in non-residential districts and may only be
displayed for thirty (30) days per calendar year and not used as permanent
signage.
Window Sign. Only permitted in non-residential districts and not used as
permanent signage. The total area combined with permanent window signs shall
not exceed forty percent (40%) of the area of the window.
Other. Other portable sign types may be allowed, such as fuel pump toppers and
wraps around waste receptacles, provided the max area limitation for all
portable signs is not exceeded.
General Regulations. Portable signs are subject to all location and design
regulations described in Subsection 165.10.09, Permitted Sign Design
Regulations.
Aggregate Size. The total amount of portable signage permitted on any premise
shall be the smaller of five percent (5%) of the area of all street facades or
100 square feet, whichever is less.
Individual Size. The maximum size of an individual portable sign shall be
thirty (30) square feet in area in non-residential districts and 16 square feet
in area in residential districts.
Location. Portable signs shall not be attached to any sign pole or light pole
on public or private property, or public utility poles or trees on either
public or private property.
Durability. Portable signs shall be constructed of sufficient weight and
durability to withstand wind gusts, storms, and other natural elements.
Sign Maintenance. All signs shall be kept in good repair and free from peeling
paint, rust, damaged, or rotted supports, framework or other material, broken
or missing faces or missing letters. Any signs not maintained may be ordered to
be removed. For maintenance of non-conforming signs, the following shall apply:
Activities considered normal maintenance and repair. Normal maintenance and
repair shall include activities such as replacement, restoration, or
improvement. Following damage or destruction, replacement of a nonconformity
shall mean that the sign face or sign structure and site, if reinstated with a
nonconformity as allowed under the terms of this chapter, shall be
reconstructed to match the conditions of the sign face or sign structure that
preceded damage or destruction. Reasonable conditions may be imposed by the
Administrator to mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent property.
Nonconformities that are completely or substantially reconstructed that include
changes to building placement or design shall be subject to the findings and
procedures for expansion or alteration of nonconforming uses and structures as
specified in Section 165.11, Nonconforming Development.
Items not considered normal maintenance and repair. Changes made to the
location, size, height, or bulk of the sign or addition of illumination are not
considered normal maintenance and repair and shall require that a nonconforming
sign be brought into conformance with all requirements of this chapter.
Sign Permit. All signs requiring a permit shall be reviewed by the
Administrator, subject to the procedures and criteria in Subsubsection
165.03.04.O, Sign Permit.
Applicability. A sign permit is not required for:
A sign on property used exclusively for a single-family residence or duplex.
Repainting without changing permanent wording, composition, or colors; or
nonstructural repairs.
Normal repair and maintenance or conforming or legal non-conforming signs.
Sign Master Plan. For projects with an overall site area more than six (6)
acres, an applicant may submit a Sign Master Plan, detailing the size,
location, and design of all signs on the site. The Sign Master Plan may adjust
the strict application of these standards but must clarify the exact nature of
the adjustments. Such a Sign Master Plan shall be approved by the City Council
after review and recommendation by the Commission. This review follows the same
process as review of a PUD District in Subsection 165.06.16, Planned Unit
Development.
Nonconforming Signs. Except as may be hereinafter specified, no sign shall be
erected, placed, maintained, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
structurally altered which does not comply with all of the regulations
established by this Section.
Maintenance. Signs erected prior to the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance
may be maintained and repaired subject to the requirements of Subsection
165.10.11, Sign Maintenance.
Continuing Nonconformance. Where a sign exists at the effective date or
adoption or amendment of this Zoning Ordinance that could not be built under
the terms of this title by reason of restrictions on area, use, height,
setback, or other characteristics of the sign or its location on the lot, such
sign may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
No such sign may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases its
nonconformity.
Should such a sign be destroyed by any means to an extent of sixty percent
(60%) or more of its replacement cost at time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this Section.
Removal. The Administrator shall have the authority to revoke any permit which
has been granted when the Administrator has determined that the sign authorized
by the permit has been constructed or maintained in violation of the permit.
Written notice shall be given to the owner of the illegal sign or the owner of
the property on which the sign is located. The notice shall state the reasons
and grounds for removal, specifying the deficiencies or defects in such sign,
and the violations charged; such notice shall specify what repairs, if any,
will make the sign conform to the requirements of this Section, and specify
that the sign be removed or made to conform with the requirements of this
Section within the notice period provided below:
   The notice period for a permanent sign is thirty (30) days.
   The notice period for a portable sign is five (5) days.
Liability for Damages. Provisions of this Section shall not be construed to
relieve or eliminate in any way the responsibility or liability any person who
erects or owns any sign, for personal injury or property damage caused by the
sign; nor shall the provisions of this section be construed to impose upon the
City or the Administrator, the City’s officials or its employees any
responsibility or liability by reason of the approval of any signs under the
provisions of this Section.
165.11   NONCONFORMING DEVELOPMENT
Purpose.
To allow for reasonable use of legally created lots of record that do not meet
current minimum requirements for their respective zoning districts.
To provide for reasonable use of legally constructed structures that do not
meet current site development regulations for their respective zoning
districts.
To allow for the reasonable continuation of legally established uses that do
not meet current use regulations for their respective zoning districts.
To limit the continuation and provide for the gradual replacement of
nonconforming uses.
Application. These regulations apply to lots, buildings, structures, and uses
that were constructed legally under regulations in effect before the effective
date of this Zoning Ordinance. Regulations for nonconforming uses are in
addition to regulations for nonconforming structures. In the event of a
conflict, the most restrictive regulation shall apply.
Nonconforming Lots.
Pre-Existing Lots of Record. Nonconforming lots of record existing at the time
of the adoption of this Zoning Ordinance shall be exempt, unless otherwise
provided, from the minimum lot area and lot width requirements of each zoning
district. Such lots may be developed with any use allowed by the regulations
for the district and must comply with all other site development regulations
set forth by this Zoning Ordinance.
Reductions from Public Acquisition. If a portion of a legally existing lot in
any district is acquired for public use, the remainder of this lot shall be
considered a conforming lot.
Nonconforming Structures.
Continuation. A lawful nonconforming structure existing on the effective date
of this Zoning Ordinance may be continued, repaired, maintained, or altered,
subject to the provisions of this Section.
Additions or Enlargements to Nonconforming Structures.
A lawful nonconforming structure may be added to or enlarged if the addition
satisfies one or more of the following conditions:
The enlargement or addition, when considered independently of the existing
building, complies with all applicable setback, height, off-street parking, and
landscaping requirements of this Zoning Ordinance.
The nonconforming building and impervious surface coverages on the site are not
increased and the building, after the addition, conforms to height and off-
street parking regulations applicable to its zoning district.
The addition projects no further into a required side yard setback than the
existing building and the length of the side wall of the addition is the
smaller of 25 feet or 50% of the length of the existing nonconforming side
wall.
No permitted addition to a nonconforming structure may place a wall within ten
(10) feet of a window of an adjacent pre-existing residential structure.
Nonconforming buildings shall be limited to one addition or enlargement
pursuant to these regulations.
Moving of Nonconforming Structures. A lawful nonconforming building or
structure shall not be moved in whole or in part to another location on its lot
unless every part of the structure conforms to all site development regulations
applicable to its zoning district.
Repair of Nonconforming Structures. A lawful nonconforming building damaged by
fire, explosion, storm or other calamity, except flood damages, may be repaired
and reconstructed provided no increase in the degree of nonconformity.
Conversion of a Conforming Building. A conforming building shall not be changed
in any way that will result in a nonconforming development.
Applicability of Landscaping and Screening Regulations. A pre-existing
structure, building, or development shall be exempt from Section 165.08,
Landscaping and Screening. However, any expansion of such structure, building,
or development or any adjacent new development onto property that is or becomes
vacant on or after the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance shall be subject
to Section 165.08, Landscaping and Screening Regulations.
Nonconforming Uses. Any nonconforming use lawfully existing on the effective
date of this Zoning Ordinance may continue, subject to this Section.
Continuation. Whenever the use of a premise becomes nonconforming through a
subsequent change in this Zoning Ordinance or zoning district boundaries, such
use may be continued or changed to another nonconforming use of the same or
lesser intensity if approved by the City Council at a public hearing following
a public hearing by the Commission including their recommendation to the City
Council.
Enlargement of Nonconforming Uses. A building or structure housing a lawful
nonconforming use shall not be added to or enlarged.
Abandonment of Nonconforming Use. If any structure or property used as a lawful
nonconforming use becomes vacant or unused for a continuous period of twelve
(12) months, any subsequent use must conform to all use regulations applicable
to the property's zoning district.
Discontinuance of Nonconformities. No premises, building or portion thereof,
used in whole or part for nonconforming purposes according to the provisions of
this Zoning Ordinance, which hereafter become and remain vacant for a continued
period of two (2) calendar years, shall again be used except in conformity with
the regulations of the district in which such building or premises is situated.
Nonconforming Uses; Certificates. Nothing in this Zoning Ordinance shall
prevent the continuance of a nonconforming use as herein authorized, unless a
discontinuance is necessary for the safety of life or property. Certificates of
occupancy shall be given to each nonconforming use indicating its status as a
lawful, nonconforming use as of the time when it legally became a nonconforming
use and requiring that any change in use requires a new permit and certificate
of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy for the nonconforming use shall be
transmitted by the owner to any succeeding owner of the property to confirm its
legal existence.
Conversion of Nonconformities. An owner of a nonconforming use may apply for a
conditional use permit, which has the effect of making the nonconforming use
conforming. The criteria for conditional use approval are set out in
Subsubsection 165.03.04.I, Conditional Use Permit . A conforming building and/
or structure shall not be changed in any way that will result in a
nonconforming development. The following additional conditions apply to a
conditional use application to convert a nonconforming use to a conforming use:
Good management practices eliminate nuisances such as noise, light, waste
materials, unreasonably congested on-street parking, or similar conflicts.
There is no material history of complaints about the building, structure, or
use (a history of complaints is justification for denying the conditional use
permit, unless the conditions of the permit will eliminate the sources of the
complaints).
There is no history of building code or residential housing code violations of
the building, structure, or use (a history of code violations is justification
for denying the conditional use permit, unless the conditions of the permit
will eliminate the code violations).
The building, structure, or use has been maintained in good condition and its
classification as a nonconformity would be disincentive for such maintenance.
Nonconforming Uses and Conditional Use Permits. A lawful pre-existing use that
requires a conditional use permit in its zoning district shall be presumed to
have the appropriate permit and shall be considered a conforming use. The use
shall be subject to the regulations governing lapses or revocation of permits,
set forth in Subsubsubsection 165.03.04.I.viii, Lapse and Revocation of Permit.
165.12   VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES, AND ENFORCEMENT
Purpose. This Section establishes the procedures that the City may use to
assure compliance with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance and to correct
violations. The Section also sets out the remedies and penalties that the City
may seek to correct violations. The provisions of this Section are intended to
encourage the voluntary correction of violations.
Application. The Administrator or their appointee shall administer and enforce
the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance and shall have powers and duties to:
Review all permits and certificates required by this Zoning Ordinance for
compliance.
Issue all permits and certificates required by this Zoning Ordinance subsequent
to administrative review.
Inspect any property, building, or structure that has applied for a permit to
be erected, constructed, reconstructed or structurally altered. A building
permit or certificate of occupancy will not be issued until an inspection has
been made.
Inspect any structure reported or observed that is not in compliance.
Notify in writing the person responsible for violations of this Zoning
Ordinance, as described in this Section.
Violations and Penalties. Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects,
or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance, upon conviction, shall be in violation of
this Code of Ordinances, and each day that a violation is permitted to exist
constitutes a separate offense. The Council is designated and ordered to
enforce this Zoning Ordinance.
Enforcement. In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building,
structure, or land is used in violation of this Zoning Ordinance, the Council,
in addition to other remedies, shall institute any proper action or proceedings
in the name of the City, to prevent such unlawful erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use, to
restrain, correct, or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of said
building, structure, or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business,
or use in or about said premises.
Abatement. The City may abate violations of this Zoning Ordinance pursuant to
this Subsection. This remedy is authorized for, but is not limited to, any
situation where any property owner fails to construct, improve, or maintain any
improvement that is required by the terms of any permit or approval, or any
condition upon any land that is in violation of this Zoning Ordinance.
Notice. Before action is taken to abate a violation to this Zoning Ordinance or
any violation to an ordinance or other policies of the City, a final warning
notice shall be served personally or by certified mail with return receipt
required to the owner of record of the property, or to the property owner or
association, as applicable, and a period of five business days shall be given
from the date of the notice indicated by the date on the letter. Failure to
receive such notice when proof of delivery to the correct address has been
provided by the U.S. Post Office shall not forestall enforcement action under
this provision.
Timing. Unless this notice is appealed, pursuant to requirements of this Zoning
Ordinance within ten (10) days of the posting of the final warning, the City
may proceed to abate the violation in accordance with City policies and
procedures.
Costs. The Administrator shall keep an account of the direct and indirect cost
incurred by the City in the abatement of any violation. The Administrator shall
forward a bill for collection to the violator or association, and to the owner
of record of the property specifying the nature and costs of the work
performed. Direct and indirect costs shall include, but not be limited to, the
actual expenses and costs to the City in the preparation of the notices,
specifications and contracts, actual physical abatement processes, work
inspection, and interest from the date of completion at the rate prescribed by
law for delinquent real property taxes.
Payment. The responsibility for payment of the charges for abatement as set out
in this Subsection shall rest solely upon the owners of the property upon which
the abatement occurred, or the property owners’ association, as applicable.
Such charges shall become a lien upon the real property or properties upon
which the violation was located or upon properties associated with the property
upon which the violation was located. The lien shall be subordinate to all
existing special assessment liens previously imposed upon the same property and
shall be paramount to all other liens except for state or municipal property
taxes, with which it shall be upon a parity. The lien shall continue until the
charges and all interest due and payable thereon are paid.
Judicial Remedies. The City is allowed to request remedies to enforce this
Zoning Ordinance in a court of competent jurisdiction. This Subsection shall
not limit the power of the City to pursue multiple or alternative actions,
remedies, and penalties, or to pursue actions, remedies, and penalties that are
authorized by law but not listed in this Subsection.
Fines. Any person, firm, corporation, agent, or employee who violates any of
the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance shall be fined according to the
resolution of the City Council, as amended from time to time.
Injunctive Relief. The City may seek an affirmative injunction to require the
demolition or removal of a structure, or to allow the City to demolish or
remove a structure and recover costs against the landowner, pursuant to the
provisions of state law.
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Dyersville Official
Zoning Map and have not been included as a part of this Code of Ordinances
but have been specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and
effect.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED      ORDINANCE ADOPTED
844       June 6, 2022
863       May 6, 2024
870       May 5, 2025
871       June 2, 2025
 
CHAPTER 170
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
 
170.01 Title                               170.06 Design Standards
170.02 Purpose                             170.07 Required Improvements
170.03 Establishing Jurisdiction to Review 170.08 Plans and Data
170.04 Definitions                         170.09 Violations and Penalties
170.05 Plats
 
170.01   TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, referred to and cited as the “Land Subdivision
Ordinance of the City of Dyersville, Iowa.”
170.02   PURPOSE.
   This chapter is to provide for the harmonious development of the City; for
the coordination of streets within subdivisions with other existing or planned
streets or with other features of the City Plan of Dyersville; for adequate
open space for traffic, recreation, light and air; and for a distribution of
population and traffic which will tend to create conditions favorable to
health, safety, convenience and prosperity.
170.03   ESTABLISHING JURISDICTION TO REVIEW.
   1.   Pursuant to the authority of Section 354.9 of the Code of Iowa, the
City does hereby extend its authority to review subdivisions outside the City’s
boundaries for a distance of two miles from the City’s boundaries.
   2.   All subdivisions of land within two miles of the boundaries of the City
shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
170.04   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words used herein are defined as
follows.
   1.   “Alley” means minor ways which are used primarily for vehicular service
access to the back or the side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   2.   “Arterial streets and highways” means those which are used primarily
for fast or heavy traffic.
   3.   “Collector streets” means streets which carry traffic from minor
streets to the major system of arterial streets and highways, including the
principal entrance streets of a residential development and streets for
circulation within such a development.
   4.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City.
   5.   “Marginal access streets” means minor streets which are parallel to and
adjacent to arterial streets and highways; and which provide access to abutting
properties and protection from through-traffic.
   6.   “Minor streets” means those streets which are used primarily for access
to the abutting properties.
   7.   “Streets” means a way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a
street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place, or however otherwise designated.
   8.   “Subdivision” means the division of a parcel of land into three or more
lots or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building
development, or, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land;
provided, that a division of land for agricultural purposes into lots or
parcels of five acres or more and not involving a new street shall not be
deemed a subdivision. “Subdivision” includes resubdivision and, when
appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or the
land subdivided.
170.05   PLATS.
   1.   Plat Required. It is unlawful for the owner, agent, or persons having
control of any land within the corporate limits of the City, or within two
miles thereof of its corporate limits, to subdivide or lay out such land into
lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, public ways and grounds, unless by plat
in accordance with the laws of the State of Iowa and the provisions of this
chapter. The owner of any tract or parcel of land, which has been subdivided or
shall hereafter be subdivided, surveyed or platted into two or more parts, for
any purpose, shall cause a plat of such area to be made in the form, and
containing the information, as hereinafter set forth, before sale or conveyance
of any lot, before commencing construction on any lot therein and/or before
recording the plat. No tract or parcel of land shall be divided into three or
more parts, whether the result of a single division or series of divisions,
unless such plats follow the subdivision procedures and requirements as
prescribed by this chapter. For purposes of this section, a tract or parcel
shall be considered to have been subdivided if there has been any previous
division of the original 40 acre aliquot part, as defined by Code of Iowa
Section 354.2, in which the tract or parcel is located in whole or in part. A
plat of a tract or parcel containing more than one lot which is reconfigured
into a tract or parcel containing the same number or fewer lots shall follow
the subdivision procedures and requirements as prescribed by this chapter.
However, if the tract or parcel was not subject to the approval of the Council
when previously divided, or if the tract or parcel is reconfigured into a tract
or parcel containing either one or two lots, the plat shall follow the simple
division procedures and requirements as prescribed by this chapter.
      A.   Present a plat prepared by a Registered Land Surveyor under the laws
of the State of Iowa.
      B.   The City shall receive a copy of the recorded plat.
      C.   The plat shall bear the endorsement of:
         (1)   Owners and proprietors, and spouses, if any.
         (2)   Dyersville Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (3)   Mayor and City Clerk.
         (4)   County Auditor.
         (5)   County Assessor.
         (6)   Clerk of the District Court.
         (7)   County Treasurer.
         (8)   County Recorder.
         (9)   Certification of Examination of Abstract.
         (10)   Resolution by the City approving said plat.
Provided, however, the owner of existing lots of record, where all
improvements, such as streets and utilities have been installed by the
developer and accepted by the City, may convey a portion of said existing lot
of record by a metes and bounds description if such description is found to be
acceptable by the County Recorder and the County Auditor. Such conveyance must
leave the remaining property with sufficient property to meet existing setback
requirements for any existing buildings on said property or uses of said
property.
   2.   Plans and Data. Previous to the filing of an application for
conditional approval of the preliminary plat (general subdivision plan), the
subdivider shall submit to the Commission plans and data as specified in
Section 165.08 of this chapter. This step does not require formal application,
fee, or filing of plat with the Commission. Within 30 days the Commission shall
inform the subdivider that the plans and data as submitted or as modified do or
do not meet the objectives of these regulations. When the Commission finds the
plans and data do not meet the objectives of these regulations it shall give
its reasons therefor.
   3.   Procedure for Conditional Approval of Preliminary Plat. The procedures
for conditional approval of a preliminary plat are as follows:
      A.   Preparation of Materials. On reaching conclusions informally as
recommended in Subsection 2 regarding the general program and objectives, the
subdivider shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat, together with
improvement plans and other supplementary material as specified in Section
165.08 of this chapter.
      B.   Copies and Written Application. Five copies of the preliminary plat
and supplementary material specified shall be submitted to the Commission with
written application for conditional approval at least five days prior to the
meeting at which it is to be considered.
      C.   Commission Conditional Approval. Following review of the preliminary
plat and other material submitted for conformity thereof to these regulations,
and negotiations with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the kind
and extent of improvements to be made by the subdivider, the Commission shall,
within 30 days, act thereon as submitted, or modified, and if approved, the
Commission shall express its approval as conditional approval and state the
conditions of such approval, if any, or if disapproved, shall express its
disapproval and its reasons therefor.
      D.   Location of Copies of Decision. The action of the Commission shall
be noted on two copies of the preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any
conditions determined. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider and the
other retained by the Commission.
   4.   Limitations. Conditional approval of a preliminary plat shall not
constitute approval of the final plat (subdivision plat). Rather, it shall be
deemed an expression of approval to the layout submitted on the preliminary
plat as a guide to the preparation of the final plat which will be submitted
for approval of the Commission and for recording upon fulfillment of the
requirements of these regulations and the conditions of the conditional
approval, if any.
   5.   Procedure for Approval of Final Plat. The procedures for approval of a
final plat are as follows:
      A.   Conforming of Final Plat. The final plat shall conform substantially
to the preliminary plat as approved, and if desired by the subdivider, it may
constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which the
subdivider proposes to record and develop at the time; provided, however, that
such portion conforms to all requirements of these regulations.
      B.   Application. Application for approval of the final plat shall be
submitted in writing to the Commission at least seven days prior to the meeting
at which it is to be considered.
      C.   Limitations. Five copies of the final plat and other exhibits
required for approval shall be prepared as specified in Section 165.08, and
shall be submitted to the Commission within twelve months after approval of the
preliminary plat; otherwise, such conditional approval shall become null and
void unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the Commission.
      D.   Final Approval. Within 30 days after application for approval of the
final plat, the Commission shall approve or disapprove it. If the Commission
approves, it shall affix its seal upon the plat together with the certified
signature of its Chairperson and Secretary. If it disapproves, it shall state
its reasons in its own records and provide the applicant with a copy. After
approval of the final plat by the Commission, and the fulfillment of the
requirements of these regulations, one copy shall be submitted to the Clerk for
approval by the Council.
      E.   Action of the Council. Upon receipt of the certification by the
Clerk, the Council shall, within a reasonable time, either approve or
disapprove the final plat.
         (1)   In the event that the plat is disapproved by the Council, such
disapproval shall be expressed in writing and shall point out wherein said
proposed plat is objectionable.
         (2)   In the event that the plat is found to be acceptable and in
accordance with this chapter, the Council shall accept the same.
         (3)   The passage of a resolution by the Council accepting the plat
shall constitute final approval of the platting of the area shown on the final
plat. The subdivider or owner shall cause such plat to be recorded in the
office of the County Recorder of the County where the land to be subdivided is
located, and shall file satisfactory evidence of such recording in the office
of the Clerk before the City shall recognize the plat as being in full force
and effect. However, said resolution shall not be delivered to the subdivider
for recording until such time as the subdivider signs acceptance of the terms
of the resolution and provides the required security to the City.
170.06   DESIGN STANDARDS.
   1.   Streets. Design standards for streets are as follows:
      A.   Conformity. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and
location of all streets shall conform to the general community master plan and
shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to
topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety and in their
appropriate relations to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such
streets.
      B.   Alternatives. Where such is not shown in the general community
master plan, the arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either:
         (1)   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of
existing principal streets in surrounding areas; or
         (2)   Conform to a plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by
the Commission to meet a particular situation where topographical or other
conditions make continuance of conformance to existing streets impracticable.
      C.   Minor Streets. Minor streets shall be laid out to be used primarily
for access to the abutting properties.
      D.   Subdivision Abutments. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
existing or proposed arterial street, the Commission may require marginal
access streets, reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a nonaccess
reservation along the rear property line, deep lots with rear service alleys,
or such other treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of
residential properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
      E.   Right-of-Way. Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad
right-of-way or limited access highway right-of-way, the Commission may require
a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way, at a
distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park
purposes in residential districts, or for commercial or industrial purposes in
appropriate districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due regard
for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
      F.   Controlling Access Strips. Reserve strips controlling access to
streets shall be prohibited except where their control is definitely placed in
the City under conditions approved by the Commission.
      G.   Street Jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one
hundred twenty-five feet shall be avoided where possible.
      H.   Tangents. A tangent at least one hundred feet long shall be
introduced between reverse curves on arterial collector streets.
      I.   Deflecting Streets. When connection street lines deflect from each
other at any point by more than ten degrees, they shall be connected by a curve
with a radius adequate to insure a sight distance of not less than one hundred
feet for minor and collector streets, and of such greater radii as the
Commission shall determine for special cases.
      J.   Intersections. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as
nearly as possible at right angles and no street at less than 60 degrees.
      K.   Street Widths. Street right-of-way widths shall be as shown in the
general community master plan and where not shown therein shall be not less
than 66 feet.
      L.   Half Streets Prohibited. Half streets are prohibited, except where
essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with
the other requirements of these regulations, and where the Commission finds it
will be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the
adjoining property is subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a tract
to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such
tract.
      M.   Dead-End Streets. Dead-end streets, designed to be so permanently,
shall not be longer than 500 feet and shall be provided at the close with a
turn-around having an outside roadway diameter of at least eight feet and a
street property line diameter of at least 100 feet.
      N.   Street Names. No street names shall be used which duplicate or may
be confused with the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject
to the approval of the Commission.
      O.   Street Grades. Street grades, wherever feasible, shall not exceed
the following, with due allowance for reasonable vertical curves: maximum six
percent on arterial and collector, eight percent on minor. No street grade
shall be less than four-tenths percent.
   2.   Alleys. Design standards for alleys are as follows:
      A.   Alleys Provided. Alleys shall be provided in commercial and
industrial districts except that the Commission may waive this requirement
where other definite and assured provisions are made for service access such as
off-street loading, unloading, and parking consistent with and adequate for the
uses proposed.
      B.   Alley Width. The width of an alley shall be 20 feet.
      C.   Alley Intersections. Alley intersections and sharp changes in
alignment shall be avoided, but where necessary, corners shall be cut off
sufficiently to permit safe vehicular movement.
      D.   Dead-End Alleys. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible,
but if unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at
the dead-end as determined by the Commission.
   3.   Easements. Design standards for easements are as follows:
      A.   Utility Easements. Easements across lots or centered on rear or side
lot lines shall be provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least
twelve feet wide.
      B.   Storm Water Easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainage way, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a storm
water assessment or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the
lines of such watercourse, and such further width or construction or both as
will be adequate for the purpose. Parallel streets or parkways may be required
in connection therewith.
   4.   Blocks. Design standards for blocks are as follows:
      A.   Length, Width, and Shape. The length, width, and shape of blocks
shall be determined with due regard to:
         (1)   Provisions of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated;
         (2)   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
         (3)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic;
         (4)   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
      B.   Block Length Limitations. Block lengths shall not exceed 1,800 feet
or be less than 330 feet.
      C.   Pedestrian Crosswalks. Pedestrian crosswalks, not less than ten feet
wide shall be required where deemed essential to provide circulation or access
to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other community
facilities.
   5.   Lots. Design standards for lots are as follows:
      A.   Lot Size and Shape. The lot size, width, depth, shape, and
orientation and the minimum building setback lines shall be appropriate for the
location of the subdivision and for the type of development and use
contemplated.
      B.   Minimal Standards on Lot Sizes. Lot dimensions shall conform to the
requirements of Chapter 165 of this Code of Ordinances, and the depth and width
of properties reserved or laid out for commercial and industrial purposes shall
be adequate to provide for the off-street service and parking facilities by the
type of use and development contemplated.
      C.   Corner Lots. Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width
to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
      D.   Lot Access. The subdividing of the land shall be such as to provide,
by means of a public street, each lot with satisfactory access to an existing
public street.
      E.   Double or Reverse Frontage. Double frontage and reverse frontage
lots should be avoided.
      F.   Side Lot Lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right
angles or radial to street lines.
   6.   Public Sites and Open Spaces. Where a proposed park, playground, school
or other public use shown in a general community master plan is located in
whole or in part in a subdivision, the Commission may require the dedication or
reservation of such area within the subdivision in those cases in which the
Commission deems such requirements to be reasonable.
170.07   REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   1.   Monuments. Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle
points, points of curves in streets, and at intermediate points as shall be
required by the Council.
   2.   Utility and Street Improvements. Utility and street improvements shall
be as follows:
      A.   Public Water. Water mains shall be installed by the subdivider at
the subdivider’s expense in accordance with State regulations and stubbed into
each lot line with a shut-off valve at the end of the stub. The additional
material cost for pipe size and fittings exceeding six inches shall be paid for
by the City. Fittings, pipe, and hydrants for fire protection use shall be
installed to City standards by the subdivider at the subdivider’s expense.
Installation of all main fittings shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider. Construction must be under the supervision of the City
Administrator or designee and approved by the Council in writing. Plans for
water mains shall be prepared by a licensed engineer and shall be approved by
the Council. In place plans must be filed with the City Administrator before
final approval is given.
      B.   Sanitary Sewer. Sanitary sewer mains shall be installed at the
subdivider’s expense in accordance with City and State regulations and shall be
stubbed into each lot at the time of installation of the sewer mains. Sanitary
sewer will be installed in the center of the street as near as practical with
manholes at each intersection but in no case shall manholes be more than 400
feet apart. Plans and specifications for sanitary sewer shall be prepared by a
licensed engineer and shall be approved by the Council. All improvements shall
be under the supervision of a qualified inspector.
      C.   Streets. Arterial streets shall be of width as approved by the
Council. Collector streets shall be a minimum width of 66 feet with a minimum
41-foot roadway. Minor streets shall be a minimum width of 66 feet with a
minimum 37-foot roadway.
      D.   Curb and Gutter. Curb and gutter shall be installed at the
subdivider’s expense according to plans and specifications prepared by a
licensed engineer and approved by the Council.
      E.   Surfacing.
         (1)   All streets will be constructed to grade and have controlled
drainage through the use of concrete curb and gutter.
         (2)   All streets shall be hard-surfaced with Asphaltic Cement
Concrete Pavement (ACC) or Portland Cement Concrete Pavement (PCC). The Council
reserves the right to determine the pavement surface at the Council’s
discretion. Any street improvement may be waived by a vote of three-fourths of
all members of the Council.
         (3)   Pavement design shall be certified by a Civil Engineer licensed
in the State of Iowa and designed to the minimum standards as listed:
 
                                    Subbase shall be a minimum of eight inches
                                   of crushed stone. Subbase type shall be of
MINOR STREETS  ACC Pavement Surface adequate design to support traffic on a two
                                    and one-half-inch asphaltic concrete
                                    surface.
(37 feet wide) PCC Pavement Surface Subgrade of adequate strength to support
                                    traffic on a six-inch concrete surface.
                                    Subbase shall be a minimum of ten inches of
              ACC Pavement Surface crushed stone. Subbase type shall be of
MAJOR STREETS                       adequate design to support traffic on a
                                    three-inch asphaltic concrete surface.
                                    Subgrade of adequate strength to support
(41 feet wide) PCC Pavement Surface traffic on a six-inch concrete surface.
                                    Additional thickness may be required if the
                                    street is deemed as an arterial way.
 
         (4)   The City will participate in the cost of pavement construction
up to the maximum allocated amount, as determined by resolution, and as
follows:
 
MINOR STREET ACC Pavement   0%
               PCC Pavement    60%
               (up to the maximum allowance)
MAJOR STREET ACC Pavement    10%
               (up to the maximum allowance)
               PCC Pavement    60%
               (up to the maximum allowance)
An allowance for a 30-inch curb and gutter will be deducted and shall not be
eligible for cost-sharing.
 
         (5)   The Council shall determine by resolution the maximum allowance
per square yard and the total available revenue for street improvements on an
annual basis. Requests for funds shall be handled on a first come, first served
basis according to the date of the final plat. Approved requests in excess of
allocated amounts will be deferred until such time funds have been allocated
for such use and shall have priority over subsequently approved requests.
      F.   Alleys. Alleys shall be constructed to grade and surfaced full width
with three inches of crushed rock at the subdivider’s expense.
      G.   Storm Sewer. Storm sewer system and other drainage improvements
shall be installed at the subdivider’s expense in accordance with plans and
specifications prepared by a licensed engineer and approved by the Council
Storm drainage systems shall take into consideration two separate design
storms: (i) minor storm of 10-year recurrence interval to size storm sewer
pipes, inlets, street gutters and small swales; (ii) major storm of 100-year
recurrence interval to analyze flows in excess of the minor system facilities
and which are designed to protect against loss of life or serious substantial
property damage.
      H.   Sidewalks. Permanent sidewalks shall be installed in new
subdivisions according to
Chapter 136 of this Code of Ordinances, but only by resolution and by a
favorable vote of three members of the Council.
      I.   Street Trees. Street trees may be planted in park lines according to
City specifications.
      J.   Standards in Flood Hazard Areas. In a Floodway or Floodway Fringe
Overlay District new or replacement water to supply systems and/or sanitary
sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters,
and on-site waste disposal systems shall be located so as to avoid impairment
of them or contamination from beyond applicable environmental control limits
during flooding.
   3.   Improvement Inspection. All improvements set out in this section shall
be under the supervision of the Director of Public Works.
   4.   Optional Special Assessments. A subdivider may file a petition with the
Council, pursuant to Section 384.41 of the Code of Iowa, requesting that the
City enter into an agreement under which special assessments will be levied to
pay the cost of any or all of the improvements required under this section. If
a petition is approved by the Council, the agreement provided for in the
petition will substitute for the requirement in this section that the
subdivider provide the improvements which are covered by the agreement. Any
agreement will be subject to the following requirements:
      A.   The Council may agree to include or exclude in a special assessment
agreement any of the required improvements named in this section, and may
establish standards different from those shown in this section for any of the
required improvements which will be specially assessed.
      B.   The City may not have more than $300,000 in special assessments
outstanding from agreements with subdividers.
      C.   Special assessments will be levied for a maximum of five years.
      D.   A subdivider may not have more than $100,000 in special assessments
outstanding at any time.
      E.   A subdivider may request special assessments against no less than 10
and more than 30 lots within a subdivision.
      F.   If a proposed subdivision contains more than 30 lots, the entire
subdivision must be platted, but special assessment financing will be provided
for a maximum of 30 lots.
      G.   A subdivider must agree to waive: (i) the limitation provided in
Section 384.62 of the Code of Iowa that an assessment may not exceed 25 percent
of the value of the property assessed; and (ii) the right to request the
deferment of special assessment installments against agricultural property
provided in that section.
      H.   A subdivider must agree that a special assessment against a given
lot will be paid in full whenever that lot is sold.
      I.   In addition to agreeing to be specially assessed, a subdivider must
agree to reimburse the City for any costs it incurs in connection with the
planning for or construction of the improvements which will be specially
assessed, including, but not limited to, design, engineering, legal services,
preparation of bidding documents, etc., provided that, at the time a subdivider
submits the petition to the Council, the subdivider shall present to the Clerk
a certified check, payable to the City, in an amount of $5,000.00 to be held by
the Clerk until the Council and the subdivider enter into a contract for
construction of improvements. If the subdivider withdraws the petition, the
money held as security shall be used to make payment of the costs incurred by
the City. If additional funds are needed at the time of petition withdrawal,
the subdivider shall pay to the City the balance due. If funds remain after
payment of costs incurred, the balance shall be returned to the subdivider.
After the contract is duly signed by all parties, the City shall return the
certified check to the subdivider.
      J.   Any requirement of this section may be waived by a vote of three-
fourths of all the members of the Council.
170.08   PLANS AND DATA.
   Preapplication plans and data shall be as follows:
   1.   General. The application shall describe or outline the existing
conditions of the site and the proposed development as necessary to supplement
the drawings required in Subsection 2 of this section. This information may
include data on existing covenants, land characteristics, and available
community facilities and utilities; and information describing the subdivision
proposal such as number of residential lots, typical lot width and depth, price
range, business areas, playgrounds, park areas, and other public areas,
proposed covenants, utilities and improvements.
   2.   Plans. A plan or topographic survey may be presented and show in simple
sketch form the proposed layout of streets, lots and other features in relation
to existing conditions. The sketch plan may be freehand pencil sketch made
directly on a print of the topographic survey. In any event the sketch plan
shall include either the existing topographic data listed in Subsection 3, or
such of these data as the Commission determines necessary for its consideration
of the proposed sketch plan.
   3.   Plans and Data for Conditional Approval. The items set out in this
subsection are required for a preliminary plat to be considered.
      A.   Topographic Data. Topographic data required as a basis for the
preliminary plat shall include existing conditions as follows except when
otherwise specified by the Commission:
         (1)   Boundary lines: bearings and distances;
         (2)   Easements: location, width and purpose;
         (3)   Streets on and adjacent to the tract: name and right-of-way
width and location; type, width and elevation of surfacing; and legally
established centerline elevations; walks, curbs, gutters, culverts, etc.;
         (4)   Utilities on and adjacent to tract location: size and invert
elevation of sanitary storm and combined sewer; location and size of water
mains; location of gas lines; fire hydrants, electric and telephone poles, and
street light; if water mains and sewers are not on or adjacent to the tract,
indicate the directions and distance to, and size of nearest ones, showing
invert elevation of sewers;
         (5)   Ground elevations on the tract, based on a datum plane approved
by the Council: for land that slopes less than approximately two percent show
spot elevations at all breaks in grade, along all drainage channels or swales,
and at selected points not more than one hundred feet apart in all directions;
for land that slopes more than approximately two percent, either show contours
with an interval of not more than five feet if ground slope is regular and such
information is sufficient for planning purposes, or show contours with an
interval of not more than two feet if necessary because of irregular land or
need for more detailed data for preparing plans and construction drawings;
         (6)   Other conditions on the tract: watercourses, marshes, rock
outcrop, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees one foot or more in diameter,
houses, barns, shacks, and other significant features.
      B.   Preliminary Plat. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a
licensed engineer at a scale of 200 feet to one inch or larger, preferred scale
of one hundred feet to one inch (100' = 1"). It shall show all existing
conditions required in subsection A above, and shall show proposals including
the following:
         (1)   Streets: names, right-of-way and roadway widths; approximate
grades and gradients; similar data for alleys, if any;
         (2)   Other right-of-way or easements; location, width and purpose;
         (3)   Location of utilities, if not shown on other exhibits;
         (4)   Lot lines, lot numbers and block numbers;
         (5)   Sites, if any, to be reserved or dedicated for parks,
playgrounds, or other public uses;
         (6)   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches, industry or other nonpublic uses exclusive of single-family
dwellings;
         (7)   Minimum building setback lines;
         (8)   Site data, including number of residential lots, typical lot
size, and acres in parks, etc.;
         (9)   Title, scale, north arrow, and date;
         (10)   A certification by an attorney that the land is free and clear
or that the holders of liens and mortgages agree to platting.
      C.   Other Preliminary Plans. When required by the Commission, the
preliminary plat shall be accompanied by profiles showing existing ground
surface and proposed street grades, including extensions for a reasonable
distance beyond the limits of the proposed subdivision; typical cross-sections
of the proposed grading, roadway and sidewalk; and preliminary plan of proposed
sanitary and storm water sewers with grades and sizes indicated. All elevations
shall be based on a datum plan approved by the Council.
      D.   Draft of Protective Covenants. The subdivider shall file all
proposals to regulate land use in the subdivision and otherwise protect the
proposed development.
   4.   Plans and Data for Final Plat Approval. The items set out in this
section are required for final plat approval.
      A.   Final Plat. The final plat shall be prepared by a licensed engineer
on sheets suitable for reproduction 24 inches wide by 36 inches long and shall
be at a scale of 100 feet to one inch or larger (preferred scale of 50 feet to
one inch). Where necessary, the plat may be on several sheets accompanied by an
index sheet showing the entire subdivision. For large subdivisions the final
plat may be submitted for approval progressively in continuous sections
satisfactory to the Commission. The final plat shall show or be accompanied by
the following:
         (1)   Primary control points, approved by the Council, or descriptions
and “ties” to such control points, to which all dimensions, angles, bearings,
and similar data on the plat shall be referred;
         (2)   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements
and other rights-of-way, and property lines of residential lots and other
sites; with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflections angles, and radii,
arcs, and central angles of all curves;
         (3)   Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right-of-
way;
         (4)   Location, dimensions and purposes of any easements;
         (5)   Number to identify each lot or site;
         (6)   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are
dedicated or reserved;
         (7)   Minimum building setback line on all lots and other sites;
         (8)   Location and description of monuments;
         (9)   Names of record owners of adjoining unplatted lands;
         (10)   Certification by surveyor or engineer certifying to accuracy of
survey and plat;
         (11)   Certification of title showing that applicant is the landowner;
         (12)   A certificate by the owner and spouse, if any, that the
subdivision is with their free consent and is in accordance with the desire of
the owner and spouse. This certificate must be signed and acknowledged by the
owner and spouse before some officer authorized to take the acknowledgments of
deeds;
         (13)   Statement by owner dedicating streets, right-of-way and any
sites for public uses;
         (13)   Title, scale, north arrow, and date;
         (14)   A complete abstract of title and an opinion from an attorney at
law showing that the fee title is in the proprietor and that the land platted
is free from encumbrance, or is free from encumbrance other than that secured
by a bond as provided in Section 354.11 of the Code of Iowa;
         (15)   A certificate of the County Treasurer that the land is free
from certified taxes and certified special assessments or that the land is free
from certified taxes and that the certified special assessments are secured by
bond in compliance with Section 354.12 of the Code of Iowa.
         (16)   A resolution and certificate for approval by the Council and
for signatures of the Mayor and Clerk.
         (17)   A cost estimate from the design engineer or construction
contracts for all required improvements.
      B.   Cross-Sections and Profiles. Cross-sections and profiles of streets
showing grades approved by the Council are required. The profiles shall be
drawn to City standard scales and elevations and shall be based on a datum plan
approved by the Council.
      C.   Certificate by Engineer and Clerk. There shall be a certificate
certifying that the subdivider has complied with the following:
         (1)   A certificate by a professional engineer that all improvements
have been designed and installed in accord with the requirements of these
regulations and with the action of the Commission giving conditional approval
of the preliminary plat; and
         (2)   A certificate by the Clerk certifying that a bond, certified
check or irrevocable letter of credit equal to 100 percent of the Engineer’s
estimate of cost or 110 percent of the total construction contracts has been
posted which is available to the City to assure the completion of all required
improvements.
      D.   Protective Covenants in Form for Recording. The protective covenants
set out in this section, in form for recording, are required.
         (1)   Other Data. Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements,
or deductions as may be required by the Commission in the enforcement of these
regulations.
         (2)   Engineer’s Assurance in Floodway Fringe Overlay District. If the
subdivision is located in a Floodway Fringe Overlay District, an assurance by
the engineer that:
            (a)   The subdivision design is consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
            (b)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damage;
            (c)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to
flood hazards;
            (d)   If the proposal for development is of five acres or fifty
lots, whichever is less, include the regulatory flood elevation.
         (3)   Maintenance Bond. Prior to final approval by the City, the
subdivider shall file a maintenance bond equal to 10 percent of the Engineer’s
estimate of cost for the project which guarantees all required improvements for
a period of two years after final acceptance of the subdivision by the City.
         (4)   As-Built Drawings. As-built drawings showing the location of all
public utilities and service lines are required prior to final acceptance of
the subdivision.
170.09   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Whoever, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land located within or
adjacent to the City, knowingly or with intent to defraud, transfers or sells
by reference to or exhibition of, or by other use of a plat of subdivision of
such land before the final plat has been approved by the Commission, shall
forfeit and pay the penalty of not more than $100.00 for each lot so
transferred or sold or agreed or negotiated to be sold, and a description by
metes and bounds shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties. Each day
that a violation is permitted to exist constitutes a separate offense.
 
