Code of Ordinances
of the
CITY OF
ELKADER, Iowa
Prepared By:   Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
Adopted April 25, 2022, by Ordinance No. 2022-02
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date     Subject
Apr-22    Ch. 123                 2022-01  3-14-22  Transient Food Vendor
                                  2022-02  4-25-22  Adopting Ordinance
Jan-25                            2022-03           Not Used
          69.07(1)(J)             2022-04  9-26-22  Parking Regulations
          Ch. 160                 2022-05  9-12-22  Floodplain Management
          75.02(3);               2022-06  10-24-22 All-Terrain Vehicles
          75.06
          78.01                   2022-07  10-24-22 Golf Cart Registration
          45.01;
          45.02(2);
          120.03;                 2022-08  10-24-22 Alcoholic Beverage Control
          120.04;
          120.05;
          120.06
          Ch. 94;                 2023-01  4-24-23  Private Wells; Sanitary
          95.05                                     Sewer System
          Ch. 8                   2023-02  5-8-23   Elkader Urban Renewal Area
                                                    (Deleting Property)
          92.03;                  2023-03  6-12-23  Water Rates; Sewer Service
          99.02                                     Charges
          Ch. 105;                2023-04  11-13-23 Solid Waste Control;
          Ch. 106                                   Collection of Solid Waste
          Ch. 8                   2023-05  6-26-23  Elkader Commercial Urban
                                                    Renewal Area
          42.02;                                    Public or Private Property;
          42.08;                  2023-06  7-10-23  Trees
          Ch. 151
          165.08(15);
          165.28;                 2023-07  1-22-23  Shipping Containers
          165.29
          69.07(1)(M)             2023-08  7-10-23  Parking Regulations
          165.05                  2023-09  7-24-23  Rezoning From R-3 to C-1
          92.06(3-4)              2023-10  8-14-23  Water Rates and Billing
                                  2023-11           Not Used
          66.05                   2023-12  10-23-23 Load and Weight
                                                    Restrictions
          69.07(1)                2023-13  1-9-24   Parking Regulations
          165.01(2)(B);           2024-01  5-28-24  Zoning Regulations
          165.08(15)(B)
          99.02(1)                2024-02  6-10-24  Sewer Service Charges
          167.01(13);             2024-03  6-10-24  Sign Regulations
          167.22
                                  2024-04           In Process
          Ch. 9                   2024-05  12-23-24 Elkader Urban
                                                    Revitalization Area
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Elkader, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the Code
of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council
or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases used
herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in
another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
2.   “City” means the city of Elkader, Iowa.
3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Elkader, Iowa.
4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of Elkader,
Iowa.
6.   “Council” means the city council of Elkader, Iowa.
7.   “County” means Clayton County, Iowa.
8.   “May” confers a power.
9.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.
10.   “Must” states a requirement.
11.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
12.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Elkader, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
14.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
15.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
16.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge of
the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
17.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
18.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
19.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if not
inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its
residents, and each and every provision of this Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Council
or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not
specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty or obtain a license required by this Code of Ordinances, or
otherwise violating any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or
regulation adopted herein by reference shall, commit a municipal infraction
and, upon conviction, be subject to the penalties provided for in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.† 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Elkader, Iowa.† 2
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No.1973-6 adopting a charter for the City was
2 passed and approved by the Council on May 29, 1973. Pursuant to an election
  held on November 2, 1993, the Mayor’s term of office was changed from two
  years to four years.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for overlap terms
of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file
with the official records of the City Administrator/Clerk and the Secretary of
State, and shall keep copies of the charter available at the City
Administrator/Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1[3])
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.04 Civil Citations
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.05 Alternative Relief
3.03 Penalties               3.06 Criminal Penalties
 
3.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted
by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.† 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
3 Ordinances, see Section
  1.14.
3.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa
or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the Department of
Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental violation.
However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable until the City
has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding the violation or
to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03   PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
   A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
   B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
2.   Special Civil Penalties.
   A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment
standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an industrial user
is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each day a violation
exists or continues.
   B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
      (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the time
that the violation begins.
      (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may issue
a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy of the
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
1.   The name and address of the defendant.
2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
3.   The location and time of the infraction.
4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
6.   The time and place of court appearance.
7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
3.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief, personal judgment entered against the offender, or any
other remedy not prohibited by Iowa law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[9])
3.06   CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal citation
pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Code of Iowa for a violation of
this Code of Ordinances or regulations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[12])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings
 
5.01   OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Elkader as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
   A.   Mayor
   B.   City Administrator/Clerk
   C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, City
Administrator/Clerk, Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be
necessary and advisable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be filed
with the City Administrator/Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])
4.   Record. The City Administrator/Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the
“Record of Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all
City officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[1a] and [3])
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open to
examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06   MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
1.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date, and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
2.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
3.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time and
place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The minutes
shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
4.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote of
either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting and
in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
5.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices at
any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
6.   Electronic Meetings. A meeting may be conducted by electronic means only
in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or impractical
and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has an
interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee was
elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this section,
for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or employee,
if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a cumulative
total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a utility
and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential City
utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the City Administrator/Clerk so that it shall be properly
recorded and considered. A person who resigns from an elective office is not
eligible for appointment to the same office during the time for which the
person was elected if, during that time, the compensation of the office has
been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the City Administrator/Clerk, and a
copy shall be sent by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request
filed with the City Administrator/Clerk within 30 days after the date of
mailing the copy, shall be granted a public hearing before the Council on all
issues connected with the removal. The hearing shall be held within 30 days
after the date the request is filed, unless the person removed requests a later
date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10   VACANCIES.
A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled in
accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11   GIFTS.
Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 10 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy. The
petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5, and 45.6)
6.05   FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of validity
thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the effect of
such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of such
petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by the
appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on the
ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
The City Administrator/Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City
and is responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following shall
apply:
1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any City
officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If any
said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
3.   Petty Cash Fund. The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty cash
fund for the payment of small claims for minor purchases, collect-on-delivery
transportation charges, and small fees customarily paid at the time of
rendering a service, for which payments the finance officer shall obtain some
form of receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or agent. At such
time as the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the finance officer shall
draw a check for replenishment in the amount of the accumulated expenditures
and said check and supporting detail shall be submitted to the Council as a
claim in the usual manner for claims and charged to the proper funds and
accounts. It shall not be used for salary payments or other personal services
or personal expenses.
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the proper
fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(545 IAC 2.5[2])
4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[3])
5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by
State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[4])
6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
   A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
   B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(545 IAC 2.5[5])
7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of each
month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation of
the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption by
the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other administrative
agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and administer budgets must
submit their budget proposals to the finance officer for inclusion in the
proposed City budget at such time and in such form as required by the Council.
3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
4.   Resolution Establishing Maximum Property Tax Dollars. The Council shall
adopt a resolution establishing the total maximum property tax dollars that may
be certified for levy that includes taxes for City government purposes under
Code of Iowa Section 384.1, for the City’s trust and agency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.6, Subsection 1, for the City’s emergency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.8, and for the levies authorized under Code of Iowa Section
384.12, Subsections 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, and 21, but excluding additions
approved at election under Code of Iowa Section 384.12, Subsection 19.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.15A)
   A.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
resolution before the date for adoption of the resolution and shall publish
notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days prior to the
hearing in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
   B.   If the City has an internet site, the notice shall also be posted and
clearly identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on
the date of the newspaper publication or public posting, as applicable.
Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on one or more
social media applications, the public hearing notice or an electronic link to
the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such account on the same day
as the publication of the notice. All of the following shall be included in the
notice:
      (1)   The sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property taxes
certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection and the
current fiscal year’s combined property tax levy rate for such amount that is
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (2)   The effective tax rate calculated using the sum of the current
fiscal year’s actual property taxes certified for levy under the levies
specified in this subsection, applicable to taxable property in the City other
than property used and assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (3)   The sum of the proposed maximum property tax dollars that may be
certified for levy for the budget year under the levies specified in this
subsection and the proposed combined property tax levy rate for such amount
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (4)   If the proposed maximum property tax dollars specified under
Subparagraph (3) exceed the current fiscal year’s actual property tax dollars
certified for levy specified in Subparagraph (1), a statement of the major
reasons for the increase.
Proof of publication shall be filed with and preserved by the County Auditor.
The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the public hearing
notice for cities and the form for the resolution to be adopted by the Council
under Paragraph C of this subsection.
   C.   At the public hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written
objections from any resident or property owner of the City. After all
objections have been received and considered, the Council may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed maximum property tax dollar amount for inclusion in the
resolution and shall adopt the resolution and file the resolution with the
County Auditor as required under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3.
   D.   If the sum of the maximum property tax dollars for the budget year
specified in the resolution under the levies specified in this subsection
exceeds 102 percent of the sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property
taxes certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection, the
Council shall be required to adopt the resolution by a two-thirds majority of
the membership of the Council.
   E.   If the City has an internet site, in addition to filing the resolution
with the Auditor under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3, the adopted
resolution shall be posted and clearly identified on the City’s internet site
for public viewing within 10 days of approval by the Council. The posted
resolution for a budget year shall continue to be accessible for public viewing
on the internet site along with resolutions posted for all subsequent budget
years.
5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may make
any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until adoption of the resolution
required under Subsection 4 of this section, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before March 31 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice. Proof of publication of the notice under this
subsection and a copy of the resolution adopted under Subsection 4 of this
section must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that the
budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days before
the public hearing, the City Administrator/Clerk shall make available a
sufficient number of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of
taxpayers and organizations, and have them available for distribution at the
offices of the Mayor and City Administrator/Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt, by
resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the City
Administrator/Clerk shall certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal
year to the County Auditor and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy
certified may be less than, but not more than, the amount estimated in the
proposed budget submitted at the final hearing or the applicable amount
specified in the resolution adopted under Subsection 4 of this section. Two
copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate must
be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(545 IAC 2.2)
1.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(545 IAC 2.3)
2.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(545 IAC 2.4)
3.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority to
adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(545 IAC 2.4)
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained books
of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general ledger
controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
3.   Checks. The Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem, City Administrator/Clerk, and Deputy
City Administrator/Clerk are authorized to be signatories on accounts holding
City funds, and on checks or warrants expending City funds. Two signatures
shall be required on any checks, warrants, or bank accounts. One signature must
be either the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem, and one signature must be the City
Administrator/Clerk or the Deputy Clerk. Checks shall be signed following
Council approval, except as provided by Subsection 5 hereof.
4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize the
City Administrator/Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due,
which if not paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late
payment or additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported
to the Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other
claims at the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing
immediate payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may
include (but is not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual
obligations, payroll, and bond principal and interest.
6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. A copy of the annual report must be filed
with the Auditor of State not later than December 1 of each year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
CHAPTER 8
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED           NAME OF AREA
1994-3        August 22, 1994   Industrial Park Urban Renewal Area
2003-3        February 10, 2003 2003 Consolidation and Addition to the
                                Industrial Park Urban Renewal Area
2016-06       December 27, 2016 Division of Taxes Levied on Taxable Property in
                                the Elkader Urban Renewal Area
2023-02       May 8, 2023       Elkader Urban Renewal Area (Deleting Property)
2023-05       June 26, 2023     Elkader Commercial Urban Renewal Area
 
CHAPTER 9
URBAN REVITALIZATION
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            NAME OF AREA
---           1981               Central Business District Urban Revitalization
                                 District
1991-4        September 23, 1991 Business/Industrial District
2004-08       December 13, 2004  Urban Revitalization District
2007-03       March 26, 2007     Urban Revitalization Area Amendment
2008-03       October 13, 2008   Urban Revitalization Area Amendment
2024-05       December 23, 2024  Elkader Urban Revitalization Area
 
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
except for supervisory duties delegated to the City Administrator/Clerk, give
direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments (in
the absence of the City Administrator/Clerk), and have the power to examine all
functions of the municipal departments, their records, and to call for special
reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain the reasons
for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6[2])
5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered into
in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the City
where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law, ordinance,
or Council direction.
7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf of
the City.
8.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
1.   Mayor Pro Tem
2.   Police Chief
3.   Library Board of Trustees
4.   Swimming Pool Board
5.   Elkader Opera House Board of Trustees
6.   Park Board
15.04   COMPENSATION.
The salary of the Mayor is $3,000.00 per year, payable in equal semiannual
installments.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.05   VOTING.
The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of the Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties             16.04 Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the Mayor
Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from employment
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ, or
discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 376.2)
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
2.   Wards. By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based upon
population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or create new
wards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])
3.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all funds,
and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16, and 384.38[1])
4.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
5.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 26)
6.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number, duties,
term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council shall
prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other elected
City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not become
effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the Council shall
not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any elected officer
during the months of November and December in the year of a regular City
election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes effective for
all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council members elected
at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become effective
in one of the following ways:
   A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
   B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
   C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
   D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or resolution,
a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage, and an
ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of the
ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of passage,
unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
1.   Regular Meetings. The time and place of the regular meetings of the
Council shall be fixed by resolution of the Council.
2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor or
upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council submitted to the
City Administrator/Clerk. Notice of a special meeting shall specify the date,
time, place, and subject of the meeting, and such notice shall be given
personally or left at the usual place of residence of each member of the
Council. A record of the service of notice shall be maintained by the City
Administrator/Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and maintain
records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation, and term of office:
1.   City Administrator/Clerk
2.   City Attorney
3.   Fire Chief
4.   Cemetery Board
5.   Planning and Zoning Commission
6.   Zoning Board of Adjustment
17.06   COMPENSATION.
The salary of each Council member is $20.00 for each meeting of the Council
attended, payable in equal semiannual installments.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY ADMINISTRATOR/CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Certification
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Records
18.03 Powers and Duties as City    18.10 Attendance at Meetings
Administrator
18.04 Publication of Minutes       18.11 Licenses and Permits
18.05 Recording Measures           18.12 Notification of Appointments
18.06 Other Publications           18.13 Elections
18.07 Authentication               18.14 City Seal
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Administrator/Clerk to serve
for an indefinite term. The City Administrator/Clerk shall receive such
compensation as established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
The City Administrator/Clerk or, in the City Administrator/Clerk’s absence or
inability to act, the Mayor or Mayor’s designee has the powers and duties as
provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances, and the law.
18.03   POWERS AND DUTIES AS CITY ADMINISTRATOR/CLERK.
The powers and duties of the City Administrator/Clerk shall include all of the
following:
1.   Serve as administrator of City programs, policies, ordinances, and
directives as established by the Council.
2.   Act as the City’s chief accounting officer, which includes preparation of
the City’s annual operating budget.
3.   Coordinate delivery of municipal services through the various City
departments.
4.   Supervise business affairs of the City, including bookkeeping and
accounting procedures.
5.   Advise the Council of the financial and other conditions of the City and
its future needs.
6.   Keep the Council informed on the progress of its programs and status of
its policies.
7.   Represent the City in any employment issues or negotiations with the City
employees.
8.   Act as the City Zoning Administrator and supervise enforcement of the
zoning regulations and floodplain management regulations of the City.
9.   Supervise the purchases of all supplies, materials, and equipment, with
the authority to make such purchases without prior approval of the Council if
the purchase price does not exceed $500.00; provided, however, the price
limitation shall not apply in the case of emergency repairs to buildings or
equipment which must be performed before Council approval is obtained.
10.   Issue licenses and permits as authorized, and keep a record thereof
showing the date of issuance, license or permit number, the term, the name of
the person to whom issued, and the purpose.
11.   Encourage and oversee economic and community development efforts.
12.   Secure special or professional services not available to the City, upon
order of the Council.
13.   Respond to questions, complaints, and other concerns of the public.
14.   Represent the City to the media and community groups, prepare news
releases, conduct press conferences, and give interviews.
15.   Be directly responsible to the Council for the administration of
municipal affairs as directed by that body. All departmental activity requiring
the attention of the Council shall be brought before the Council by the City
Administrator/Clerk and all Council involvement in administration initiated by
the Council shall be coordinated through the City Administrator/Clerk.
16.   Supervise and give direction to all City department heads, including the
Police Chief, concerning departmental functions; examine all department
functions and records and call for special reports from department heads at any
time.
17.   Have the power to employ, discipline, discharge, or reclassify employees
except where indicated otherwise by the Code of Iowa or those positions
appointed by the Council or by competitive examination. However, for those
employees who are appointed by the Council, the Council has expressly delegated
to the City Administrator/Clerk the authority to discipline those employees
without the review by, or approval of, the Council up to, but not including,
suspension or termination. If the conduct of an employee appointed by the
Council causes the City Administrator/Clerk to conclude that employee should
receive a suspension or should be terminated, the City Administrator/Clerk
shall make that recommendation to the Council. If the Council approves, the
Council shall direct the City Administrator/Clerk to administer the suspension
or termination.
18.   Provide that the duties of an absentee officer are carried on during the
officer’s absence.
19.   Perform such other administrative duties as directed by the Council.
18.04   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting, the City Administrator/
Clerk shall cause the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published. Such
publication shall include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all
receipts and shall show the gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.05   RECORDING MEASURES.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by
the Council and record a statement with the measure, where applicable,
indicating whether the Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure,
and whether the measure was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 and 2])
18.06   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances,
enactments, proceedings, and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of Ordinances
or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
18.07   AUTHENTICATION.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions
with the City Administrator/Clerk’s signature, certifying the time and manner
of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.08   CERTIFICATION.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning
district, building lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district,
lines, or limits to the recorder of the County containing the affected parts of
the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.09   RECORDS.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the
following manner:
1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances and
codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents (or accurate
reproductions) for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions)
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the
final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions) relating to
real property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 and 5])
4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of any
record, paper, or public document under the City Administrator/Clerk’s control
when it may be necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s
duty; furnish a copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set
by Council resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized
officer, affix the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments
that by this Code of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of
the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 and 5] and 380.7[5])
5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and petitions
directed to the Council or to the City generally. The City Administrator/Clerk
shall endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered
in such communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
At the direction of the Council, the City Administrator/Clerk shall attend
meetings of committees, boards, and commissions. The City Administrator/Clerk
shall record and preserve a correct record of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when
authorized by this Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and
permits issued which shall show date of issuance, license or permit number,
official receipt number, name of person to whom issued, term of license or
permit, and purpose for which issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or
Council to offices in the City government of their positions and the time at
which they shall assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.13   ELECTIONS.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in
accordance with Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.14   CITY SEAL.
The City seal is in the custody of the City Administrator/Clerk and shall be
attached by the City Administrator/Clerk to all transcripts, orders, and
certificates that it may be necessary or proper to authenticate. The City seal
is circular in form, in the center of which are the words “CITY OF ELKADER,
IOWA” and around the margin of which are the words “CITY SEAL - INCORPORATED
MAY 29, 1891.”
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
The City Administrator/Clerk is the Treasurer and performs all functions
required of the position of Treasurer.
19.02   COMPENSATION.
The City Administrator/Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing
the duties of the Treasurer.
19.03   DUTIES OF TREASURER.
The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of the
City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received.
4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by the
Treasurer from special assessments.
6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s books
and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of each
fund and amounts received and disbursed.
8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.02 Attorney for City            20.07 Annual Report
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.08 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.09 Prepare Documents
20.05 Review and Comment           20.10 Representation of City Employees
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve for a term
of one year. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as established
by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend all
actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to or
coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor, Council, or City Administrator/Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07   ANNUAL REPORT. When requested, the City Attorney shall make an annual
report in writing to the Council, which shall contain a record of every legal
matter considered by the City Attorney during the course of the year, the
disposition made of all legal matters considered, and recommendations
concerning legal opinion on any matters pending which may interest the City.
20.08   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.09   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms,
and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.10   REPRESENTATION OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
The City Attorney shall not appear on behalf of any City officer or employee
before any court or tribunal for the purely private benefit of said officer or
employee. The City Attorney shall, however, if directed by the Council, appear
to defend any City officer or employee in any cause of action arising out of or
in the course of the performance of the duties of his or her office or
employment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.8)
CHAPTER 21
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
21.01 Public Library                   21.07 Nonresident Use
21.02 Library Trustees                 21.08 Expenditures
21.03 Qualifications of Trustees       21.09 Annual Report
21.04 Organization of the Board        21.10 Injury to Books or Property
21.05 Powers and Duties                21.11 Theft
21.06 Contracting with Other Libraries 21.12 Notice Posted
 
21.01   PUBLIC LIBRARY.
The public library for the City is known as the Elkader Public Library. It is
referred to in this chapter as the Library.
21.02   LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of six resident members and not more than two nonresident resident
members. All members are to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
Council.
21.03   QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
All resident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents of
the City. The nonresident member of the Board shall be a bona fide citizen and
resident of the Central Community School District. Members shall be over the
age of 18 years.
21.04   ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
1.   Term of Office. All appointments to the Board shall be for six years,
except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July 1. Appointments
shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or as near as
possible, to stagger the terms.
2.   Vacancies. The position of any resident Trustee shall be vacated if such
member moves permanently from the City. The position of a nonresident Trustee
shall be vacated if such member moves permanently from the School District or
into the City. The position of any Trustee shall be deemed vacated if such
member is absent from six consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in
the case of sickness or temporary absence from the City or County. Vacancies in
the Board shall be filled in the same manner as an original appointment except
that the new Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the
appointment is made.
3.   Compensation. Trustees shall receive no compensation for their services.
21.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Officers. To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary, and
such other officers as it deems necessary. The warrant-writing officer shall
serve as Board Treasurer of the Library Board.
2.   Physical Plant. To have charge, control, and supervision of the Library,
its appurtenances, fixtures, and rooms containing the same.
3.   Charge of Affairs. To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
4.   Hiring of Personnel. To employ a Librarian, and authorize the Librarian to
employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary for the proper
management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided, however, prior
to such employment, the compensation of the Librarian, assistants, and
employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of the members of
the Board voting in favor thereof.
5.   Removal of Personnel. To remove the Librarian, by a two-thirds vote of the
Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or employees
for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject however, to the
provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
6.   Purchases. To select, or authorize the Librarian to select, and make
purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps, journals,
other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and supplies for the
Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
7.   Use by Nonresidents. To authorize the use of the Library by nonresidents
and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service exists.
8.   Rules and Regulations. To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal rules
and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the law, for
the care, use, government, and management of the Library and the business of
the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
9.   Expenditures. To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds
allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys available by
gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of all other
moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals collected under the
rules of the Board.
10.   Gifts. To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed
property, and devises, and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title
to said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills of sale
for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them
from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.
11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts. To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises, and bequests accepted
by the City by action against the Council.
12.   Record of Proceedings. To keep a record of its proceedings.
13.   County Historical Association. To have authority to make agreements with
the local County historical association where such exists, and to set apart the
necessary room and to care for such articles as may come into the possession of
the association. The Trustees are further authorized to purchase necessary
receptacles and materials for the preservation and protection of such articles
as are in their judgment of a historical and educational nature and pay for the
same out of funds allocated for Library purposes.
21.06   CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
1.   Contracting. The Board may contract with any other boards of trustees of
free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 and Ch. 28E)
2.   Termination. Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election. The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law which is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract.
21.07   NONRESIDENT USE.
The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of the
City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
1.   Lending. By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee.
2.   Depository. By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents.
3.   Bookmobiles. By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that
books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
4.   Branch Library. By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents.
21.08   EXPENDITURES.
All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of the
Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library. Expenditures shall be
paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and Secretary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 and 392.5)
21.09   ANNUAL REPORT.
The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of the
fiscal year. This report shall contain statements as to the condition of the
Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount of fines
collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of the Library
during the year, together with such further information as may be required by
the Council.
21.10   INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear, deface,
mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper, periodical,
book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture, or other property belonging to the Library
or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
21.11   THEFT.
No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with the
intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
21.12   NOTICE POSTED.
There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices informing
the public of the following:
1.   Failure to Return. Failure to return Library materials for two months or
more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material or equipment is overdue and
criminal actions will be taken, has been made to reclaim the materials or
equipment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
2.   Detention and Search. Persons concealing Library materials may be detained
and searched pursuant to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 22
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
22.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 22.04 Compensation
22.02 Term of Office                 22.05 Powers and Duties
22.03 Vacancies
 
22.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of five members appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 and 392.1)
22.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be five years. The
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
22.03   VACANCIES.
If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise, a
successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the same manner as
the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
22.04   COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
22.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its first
regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as Vice
Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during the
Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and duties
and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other related
matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes, or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
4.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of subdivisions
or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid out in lots or
plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same intended to be
dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to the Commission
and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
5.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
6.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
7.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the Mayor
and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 23
PARK BOARD
 
23.01 Park Board Created 23.04 Accounting
23.02 Board Organization 23.05 Open Meetings
23.03 Powers and Duties
 
23.01   PARK BOARD CREATED.
A Park Board is created to oversee the operation of all City parks, including
Elkader City Park, Founders’ Park, the riverfront access area, Molumby Field,
Keystone Park, the Athletic Field complexes, property adjacent to St. Joseph’s
Church, the Tappan property, and the horse barn, and any other property
acquired and set aside by the City Council as a public park. The Park Board
shall also plan and oversee City programs for recreation and leisure time
activities for City residents of all ages. The Elkader Municipal Swimming Pool
and the area surrounding it, which is incidental to or a part of the swimming
pool complex, shall not be under the jurisdiction of the Park Board, and all
swimming pool operations and activities shall remain under the jurisdiction of
the Elkader Municipal Swimming Pool Board.
23.02   BOARD ORGANIZATION.
The Board shall consist of five members, appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the Council, for overlapping terms of four years. Members may be
reappointed to the Board without a limit on successive terms. The Board shall
annually choose from its membership its own officers. Vacancies shall be filled
in the same manner as the original appointment for the balance of the term,
based upon recommendations provided by current Park Board members. Members
shall serve without compensation, but may receive reimbursement for expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties.
23.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
1.   Budget. To prepare a proposed budget for the purpose of operating and
maintaining the parks and recreational areas of the City. Said budget shall be
submitted to the City Administrator/Clerk on or before December 1 of each year,
for approval by the Council.
2.   Records and Reports. Records for transactions and proceedings will be
processed through, and stored in, City Hall. The Board shall keep minutes of
all its meetings and record the vote of the Board on each action taken. The
minutes must be turned into the City for housing.
3.   Control of Parks and Facilities. To have charge, control, and supervision
of all City parks and other recreational facilities as set out in Section
23.01, including the horse barn.
4.   Recreational Programs. To make plans for the development and use of park
and recreation facilities and advise the City Administrator/Clerk and the
Council on the needed facilities to provide for open space such as parks, for
playgrounds and play fields, and for community facilities for other forms of
recreation and the use of leisure time by citizens. It shall also plan and
oversee City recreation programs and encourage other programs for leisure time
of the City’s residents of all ages, including needs of people in the environs
of the City.
5.   Rules and Regulations. Work with the City Administrator/Clerk and City
Council to make, adopt, amend, modify, or repeal rules and regulations not
inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances, the Code of Iowa, and any State and
federal regulations for the use and management of all City parks and
recreational facilities.
6.   Leases. To enter into leases for the City horse barn upon such terms and
conditions as the Board determines to be prudent and in the best interests of
the City.
7.   Fees. Work with the City Administrator/Clerk and Council to set fees and
charges associated with the use of City park property, including, but not
limited to, camping fees and shelter rental fees. Such fees shall be approved
by resolution of the Council.
23.04   ACCOUNTING.
The City Administrator/Clerk or Deputy Clerk will be responsible for any and
all accounting work related to the maintenance and operations of all City
parks.
23.05   OPEN MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Park Board shall be open meetings in compliance with
Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 24
SWIMMING POOL BOARD
 
24.01 Swimming Pool Board Created     24.05 Budget Certified
24.02 Qualifications of Board Members 24.06 Records and Reports
24.03 Organization of the Board       24.07 Accounting
24.04 Powers and Duties
 
24.01   SWIMMING POOL BOARD CREATED.
A Swimming Pool Board is hereby created to operate and manage the Municipal
Swimming Pool. This Board shall consist of no more than five members to be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
24.02   QUALIFICATIONS OF BOARD MEMBERS.
Three of the members of the Board shall be citizens and residents of the City,
and shall be over the age of 18. All other members must reside in the Central
Community School District and be of the age of 18.
24.03   ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
Appointments. All appointments of the Board shall be for overlapping four-year
terms.
Vacancies. The position of any Board member shall be vacant if he or she moves
permanently from the Central Community School District or is absent from six
consecutive meetings of the Board except in the case of sickness or temporary
absence from the district. Vacancies on the Board shall be filled by
appointment of the Mayor with the approval of the Council. Names of prospective
members shall be submitted to the Mayor by the Swimming Pool Board.
24.04   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Officers. To meet and elect from its members a Chairperson and a Secretary
as it deems necessary. Such election shall take place before January 1 of each
year.
2.   Physical Plant. To have charge, control and supervision of the swimming
pool, bathhouse, concession stand, its appurtenances, fixtures, equipment, and
rooms contained in the swimming pool facility.
3.   Charge of Affairs. To direct and control all affairs, use, and operation
of the swimming pool facility.
4.   Hiring of Personnel. To employ a Swimming Pool Manager and such assistants
and employees necessary for the proper management and operation of the swimming
pool. Compensation for all employees of the swimming pool must be approved by
the Council.
5.   Removal of Personnel. To remove the Manager, by a majority vote of the
Board, and provide for procedures for the removal of the assistants and
employees for misdemeanors, incompetence, or inattention to duty.
6.   Purchases. To purchase or authorize the Manager to purchase supplies,
materials, equipment, and services for the operation and maintenance of the
swimming pool within the budgetary limits set by the Board, said budget having
been approved by the Council.
7.   Fees. Work with the City Administrator/Clerk and Council to set fees and
charges for the use of the swimming pool, including season tickets, and
procedures for collecting such fees. Such fees shall be approved by the
Council.
8.   Rules and Regulations. Work with the City Administrator/Clerk and Council
to make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal rules and regulations, not
inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and State and federal laws for care,
use, government, management, and operation of the swimming pool facility and
the business of the Board and fixing and enforcing penalties for violation.
24.05   BUDGET CERTIFIED.
Each year by December 1 the Board shall submit to the City Administrator/Clerk,
for the approval by the Council, a proposed budget for the ensuing fiscal year.
24.06   RECORDS AND REPORTS.
Records for transactions and proceedings will be run through and kept in the
City Hall. The Board shall keep minutes of all its meetings and record the vote
of the Board on each action of the Board. Those minutes must be turned into the
City for housing.
24.07   ACCOUNTING.
The City Administrator/Clerk or Deputy Clerk will be responsible for any and
all accounting work related to the maintenance and operation of the Municipal
Swimming Pool.
CHAPTER 25
ELKADER OPERA HOUSE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
25.01 Opera House Board of Trustees 25.05 Powers and Duties
25.02 Qualifications                25.06 Opera House Fund
25.03 Terms                         25.07 Annual Report
25.04 Vacancies                     25.08 Open Meetings
 
25.01   OPERA HOUSE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
The Board of Trustees for the facility known as the Elkader Opera House shall
consist of between seven and nine members to be appointed by the Mayor and
approved by the Council. The Mayor may appoint the initial Chairperson.
25.02   QUALIFICATIONS.
All Board members shall be at least 18 years of age. No more than six members
shall reside within the 52043 zip code. No less than two members shall reside
outside of the 52043 zip code.
25.03   TERMS.
All appointments shall be for three years each, except to fill vacancies. No
member shall serve more than two consecutive terms. The terms shall have the
same fiscal year as the City.
25.04   VACANCIES.
A Board position shall become vacant if the member moves permanently from the
represented area or is absent from three consecutive Board meetings, except in
the case of illness or temporary absence excused by a majority of the Board.
Vacancies shall be filled by appointment of the Mayor with Council approval,
and the new Board member shall fill the unexpired term for which the
appointment was made.
25.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have the following powers and duties subject to approval by the
Council:
1.   Officers. Meet and elect a Chairperson (if not designated by the Mayor),
Vice Chairperson, Secretary, and Financial Secretary from its members.
2.   Responsible For Opera House. Take charge, control, and supervision of the
Opera House, its appurtenances, fixtures, and rooms containing the same with
the exception of those areas used for City purposes. No material alterations
shall be made to the building without prior consent of the Council.
3.   Direct Affairs. Direct and control Elkader Opera House affairs.
4.   Use. Authorize the use of the Opera House and fix charges thereto.
5.   Gifts. Accept and control the expenditure of all gifts, devises, and
bequests to the Elkader Opera House.
6.   Rules and Regulations. Make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal rules and
regulations for the care, use, and management of the Opera House, and prescribe
penalties for rule violations.
7.   Record. Keep a record of all its proceedings.
8.   Historical Associates. May make agreements with local and regional
historical associations when applicable and set apart room for, and care for,
articles of historical or educational interest in the possession of the
association.
9.   Power To Contract. May issue contracts in reference to use of the Elkader
Opera House to individuals or other organizations; however, the Board may not
financially obligate the City in any manner.
25.06   OPERA HOUSE FUND.
The Council shall appropriate from the General Fund an Opera House account to
be used for the direction and control of the Opera House. The Opera House Board
shall submit a budget to the City Council each year by December 1. The City
shall retain financial responsibility for heating and electrical, as well as
structural capital improvements or repairs for the Elkader Opera House. The
Opera House Board shall promote and market the use of the building with the
intent of generating revenue, a portion of which will go directly to help
offset City financial responsibilities associated with the building.
25.07   ANNUAL REPORT.
The Board shall submit an annual comprehensive report to the Council after the
close of the municipal fiscal year.
25.08   OPEN MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Elkader Opera House Board of Trustees shall comply with
Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa regarding open meetings.
CHAPTER 26
CEMETERY BOARD
 
26.01 Board Created       26.06 Fees and Charges
26.02 Organization        26.07 Tax Funds and Charges
26.03 Secretary/Treasurer 26.08 Management Agreement
26.04 Bylaws and Rules    26.09 Budget Certified
26.05 Duties              26.10 Perpetual Trust
 
26.01   BOARD CREATED.
A Cemetery Board is hereby created to manage the Elkader East Side Cemetery.
26.02   ORGANIZATION.
The Cemetery Board shall consist of five members selected at large by joint
action of the Council and the Boardman Township Trustees. The Cemetery Board
shall elect officers as it deems necessary. The position of any Board member
shall be vacant if said member is absent from four consecutive regular meetings
of the Board. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointees. Board members shall serve indefinite terms. No Board member shall
receive compensation except as provided in Section
26.03. All Board members shall be residents of Boardman Township.
26.03   SECRETARY/TREASURER.
The Cemetery Board shall contract with a person (who may be a member of the
Cemetery Board) to act as Secretary/Treasurer to maintain book and records of
the Cemetery. The Secretary/Treasurer may be paid a fee to be set from time to
time by the cemetery Board.
26.04   BYLAWS AND RULES.
The Cemetery Board shall adopt and keep in force bylaws and rules pertaining to
its operation. A copy of the Cemetery Board’s current bylaws and rules shall be
filed with the City Administrator/Clerk and the Boardman Township Clerk. The
Bylaws shall provide for regular meetings of the Cemetery Board. At least once
annually the Cemetery Board shall meet in joint session with the Council and
the Boardman Township Trustees to present the Board’s annual report and to
discuss matters of mutual interest.
26.05   DUTIES.
Pursuant to the requirements of Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa, the Cemetery
Board shall supervise the care and maintenance of the East Side Cemetery, sell
graves, provide perpetual care, and otherwise operate the cemetery consistent
with law and tradition.
26.06   FEES AND CHARGES.
The Board shall have the power to set fees and charges consistent with the
Board’s duties.
26.07   TAX FUNDS AND CHARGES.
1.   Tax Funds. All taxes levied by the City and by Boardman Township for
Cemetery purposes shall be invested, managed, and disbursed by the City
Administrator/Clerk. The City shall be responsible for payment of all casualty
and liability insurance, salaries, and worker’s compensation, and any cemetery
employees shall be employees of the City.
2.   Fees and Charges. Funds collected from the sale of cemetery plots, plus
any other fees and charges, shall be collected, managed, and dispersed by the
Cemetery Board for carrying out its duties under Section
26.05 above. Any amounts paid to the Secretary/Treasurer of the Cemetery Board
shall come from these funds. In addition, the Cemetery Board shall set aside
amounts as necessary for equipment purchases and replacement.
26.08   MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT.
The Mayor and City Administrator/Clerk are hereby authorized to enter into an
agreement with Boardman Township Trustees under Section 28E of the Code of
Iowa.
26.09   BUDGET CERTIFIED.
Each year by December 1 the Cemetery Board shall submit to the Council and the
Boardman Township Trustees a proposed budget and tax levy for Cemetery purposes
for the ensuing fiscal year. The City Council and Boardman Township Trustees
shall include such tax levy or so much as they may deem necessary in the levy
for the General Fund of the City and for the Township as certified to the
County Auditor.
26.10   PERPETUAL TRUST.
1.   Trusteeship. Pursuant to section 523I.502 of the Code of Iowa, the City
and Boardman Township hereby state their willingness and intention to act as
the trustee for the perpetual maintenance of interment spaces in Elkader East
Side Cemetery.
2.   Establishment of Trust Fund. A perpetual trust is hereby established for
Elkader East Side Cemetery in accordance with Chapter 523I of the Code of Iowa,
the Iowa Cemetery Act. A restricted fund is created, to be known and designated
as the “perpetual care cemetery fund,” which shall be funded by the deposit of
an amount equal to or greater than 20 percent of the gross selling process, or
$50.00, whichever is more, for each sale of plot within the cemetery. The fund
shall be administered in accordance with the purposes and provisions of Chapter
523I of the Code of Iowa.
3.   Separation of Funds. The perpetual care cemetery fund shall be maintained
separate from all operating funds of the cemetery, and the principal of the
fund shall not be reduced voluntarily except as specifically permitted by the
Iowa Cemetery Act and applicable administrative regulations.
4.   Sale of Interment Rights. The sale or transfer of interment rights in the
cemetery shall be evidenced by a certificate of interment rights or other
instrument evidencing the conveyance of exclusive rights of interment upon
payment in full of the purchase price. The agreement for interment rights shall
disclose all information required by the Iowa Cemetery Act, including the
amount or percentage of money to be placed in the perpetual care cemetery fund.
5.   Perpetual Care Registry. The cemetery shall maintain a registry of
individuals who have purchased interment rights in the cemetery subject to the
care fund requirements of the Iowa Cemetery Act, including the amounts
deposited in the perpetual care cemetery fund.
CHAPTER 27
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
 
27.01 Board of Adjustment Created  27.05 Stay of Proceedings
27.02 Proceedings of the Board of  27.06 Conditions of Variance
Adjustment
27.03 Powers and Duties            27.07 Decisions of the Board of Adjustment
27.04 Hearings, Appeals and Notice 27.08 Appeals from the Board of Adjustment
 
27.01   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT CREATED.
A Board of Adjustment is hereby established. The Board shall consist of five
members to be appointed by the Council for overlapping terms of five years.
Members of the Board of Adjustment may be removed from office by the Council
for cause upon written charges and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be
filled by the Council for the unexpired term of the member.
27.02   PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its
affairs and in keeping with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings shall be
held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may
determine. The Chairperson, or in the absence of the Chairperson the acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel attendance of witnesses. All
meetings shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or
failing to vote indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be public record
and be immediately filed in the office of the Board.
27.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties:
1.   Administrative Review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that
there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by
the Administrative Officer in the enforcement of the Zoning Regulations set
forth in
Chapter 165 of this Code of Ordinances (the “Zoning Code”).
2.   Special Exceptions. To hear and decide only such special exceptions as the
Board of Adjustment is specifically authorized to pass on by the terms of the
Zoning Code; to decide such questions as are involved in determining whether
special exceptions should be granted; to grant special exceptions with such
conditions and safeguards as are appropriate under the Zoning Code; and to deny
special exceptions when not in harmony with the purpose and intent of the
Zoning Code. A special exception shall not be granted by the Board of
Adjustment unless and until:
   A.   A written application for a special exception has been submitted
indicating the section of the Zoning Code under which the special exception is
sought and stating the grounds on which it is requested.
   B.   Prior to final Board of Adjustment action on any special exception, the
Planning and Zoning Commission must review the request and recommend approval
or denial.
   C.   The names and addresses of all adjacent property owners of the exterior
boundaries of the property for which the special exception is required
indicating their approval or denial and so each shall be contacted by mail for
the purpose of a courtesy notice of the public hearing.
   D.   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person, or by
agent or attorney. At least four and not more than 20-days’ notice of the time
and place of hearing shall be published in a newspaper having general
circulation in the City.
   E.   The Board of Adjustment shall make a finding that it is empowered under
the section of the Zoning Code described in the application to grant the
special exception, and that the granting of the special exception will not
adversely affect the public interest.
   F.   The final decision shall include the findings of fact and the
conclusions reached by the Board of Adjustment. The decision shall be in
writing and shall include all conditions that may be associated with the
decision. The decision shall not be a mere conclusion or statement. Each
decision shall be accompanied by specific findings of fact. These findings
shall be related to the specific standards stating the ordinance which the
applicant must satisfy.
In granting any special exception, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with the Zoning Code.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the special exception is granted, shall be deemed a violation of
the Zoning Code. The Board shall prescribe a time limit within which the action
for which the special exception is required shall be begun or completed, or
both. Failure to begin or complete, or both, such action within the time limit
set shall void the special exception.
3.   Variances. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from
the terms of the Zoning Code as will not be contrary to the public interest
where, owing to the special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions
of the Zoning Code would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance from the
terms of the Zoning Code shall not be granted by the Board of Adjustment unless
and until:
   A.   A written application for a variance is submitted demonstrating:
      (1)   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land, structure, or building involved, and which are not applicable to
other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district; and
      (2)   That literal interpretation of the provisions of the Zoning Code
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of the Zoning Code; and
      (3)   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from
the action or actions of the applicant; and
      (4)   The names and addresses of all adjacent property owners of the
exterior boundaries of the property for which the variance is requested,
indicating their approval or denial, will be contacted by mail for the purpose
of a courtesy notice of public hearing; and
      (5)   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by the Zoning Code to other
lands, structures, or buildings in the same district. No nonconforming use of
neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in the same district, and no
permitted use of land, structures, or buildings in other districts, shall be
considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
   B.   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person, or by
agent or by attorney. At least four and no more than 20-days’ notice of the
time and place of hearing shall be published in a newspaper having general
circulation in the City.
   C.   The final decision shall include the findings of fact and the
conclusions reached by the Board of Adjustment. The decision shall be in
writing and include all conditions that may be associated with the decision.
The decision shall not be a mere conclusion or statement. Each decision shall
be accompanied by specific findings of fact. These findings shall be related to
the specific standards stating the ordinance which the applicant must satisfy.
   D.   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the reasons
set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and that the
variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use of
the land, building, or structure.
   E.   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the granting
of the variance shall be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the
Zoning Code, and shall not be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.
27.04   HEARINGS, APPEALS, AND NOTICE.
Appeals of the Board of Adjustment concerning interpretation or administration
of this chapter may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer or
bureau of the governing body of the City affected by a decision of the
Administrative Officer. Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time
not to exceed 30 days by filing with the Administrative Officer and with the
Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
Administrative Officer shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. The
Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeal, give
public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may appear
in person or by agent or attorney. A fee (established by the Council) shall be
paid to the Administrative Officer at the time the notice of appeal is filed,
which the Administrative Officer shall forthwith credit to the City.
27.05   STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the Administrative Officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal is filed, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in the opinion of the
Administrative Officer, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such
case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which
may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a Court of Record on
application, on notice to the Administrative Officer from whom the appeal is
taken, and on due cause shown.
27.06   CONDITIONS OF VARIANCE.
In granting any variance, the Board may prescribe appropriate conditions and
safeguards in conformity with this chapter. Violations of such conditions and
safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted,
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. Under no circumstances shall the
Board grant a variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this
chapter in the district involved, or any use expressly or by implication
prohibited by the terms of this chapter in said district.
27.07   DECISIONS OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Board of Adjustment may, so long
as such action is in conformity with the terms of this chapter, reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination as ought to be made and to that end shall have powers of the
Administrative Officer from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of
three members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of the Administrative Officer, or to
decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to
pass under this chapter, or to effect any variation in application of this
chapter.
27.08   APPEALS FROM THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
Any person or persons or any board, taxpayer, department, board, or bureau of
the community aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Adjustment may seek
review of such decision of the Board of Adjustment by a Court of Record in the
manner provided by the laws of the State and particularly by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established       30.07 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.02 Organization                 30.08 Departmental Rules
30.03 Peace Officer Qualifications 30.09 Summoning Aid
30.04 Required Training            30.10 Taking Weapons
30.05 Compensation                 30.11 Contract Law Enforcement
30.06 Peace Officers Appointed
 
30.01   DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of State laws and local ordinances for
the purposes associated with advancing public safety and solving problems
within the corporate limits of the City.
30.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full- or part-time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03   PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04   REQUIRED TRAINING.
All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law at
an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment or as
otherwise directed by the Code of Iowa and the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
Peace officers shall also meet and maintain the minimum in-service training as
required by law.
30.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such compensation
as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06   PEACE OFFICERS APPOINTED.
The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief subject to the consent of
a majority of the Council. The other members of the department shall be
selected as directed by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07   POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
The Police Chief has the following powers and duties, subject to the approval
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13 [4])
1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring all
persons committing any offense before the proper court as deemed necessary and
after considerations associated with his use of State-authorized discretion.
3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to the
State Department of Transportation, when required by the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
5.   Transport of Prisoners/Mentally Ill. Be responsible for the custody of
prisoners, including conveyance to detention facilities as may be required. Be
responsible for the conveyance of potential mentally ill subjects to proper
hospital facilities, as necessary.
6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for the
prosecution of persons alleged to have violated law or ordinance.
8.   Record of Arrests. Have the ability to provide documentation of all
arrests made in the City by showing whether said arrests were made under
provisions of State law or City ordinance, the offense charged, who made the
arrest and the disposition of the charge, as mandated by the Code of Iowa.
9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council annually or monthly
reports as well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor, City
Administrator/Clerk, or Council.
10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and be
responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment, and
materials of the department.
11.   Internal Affairs/Suspected Departmental Violations by Officer. The Police
Chief shall be responsible for internal investigations of suspected violations
of departmental standard guidelines and operational procedures by any
subordinate officer. Violations, or suspected violations, will be addressed
internally by the Police Chief based on the impact and severity of the
violation, in consideration of whether or not it can be mitigated internally.
12.   Official Disciplinary Action. Upon completion of an investigation, and in
conjunction with Subsection
18.03(7) of this Code of Ordinances, the Police Chief shall notify the City
Administrator/Clerk of any founded violation of policy deemed major by the
Police Chief. The Police Chief may invoke said Code of Ordinances and request
the assistance of the City Administrator/Clerk for recurring violations in
cases not considered major, where internal efforts have been successful.
30.08   DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
The Police Chief shall establish and be responsible for the implementation of
such rules, in accordance with and shall not be in conflict with, established
City Code of Ordinances. Such rules are established and issued pursuant to the
Police Department's Standard Operating Guidelines and Procedures (SOGP).
Certain rules outlined in the Police Department's SOGP are subject to the
approval of the Council, as may be necessary for the operation of the
department.
30.09   SUMMONING AID.
Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10   TAKING WEAPONS.
Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items
which are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have
within such person’s control to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
30.11   CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
In lieu of the appointment of a police chief by the Mayor as provided by
Section
30.06, the Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other qualified
lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City and in such
event the Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the powers and
duties of the Police Chief as provided herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
 
35.01 Establishment and Purpose 35.08 Obedience to Fire Chief
35.02 Organization              35.09 Constitution
35.03 Qualifications            35.10 Accidental Injury Insurance
35.04 Training                  35.11 Liability Insurance
35.05 Compensation              35.12 Calls Outside Fire District
35.06 Fire Chief Appointed      35.13 Mutual Aid
35.07 Duties of Fire Chief      35.14 Authority to Cite Violations
 
35.01   ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)
35.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and personnel
as may be authorized by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.03   QUALIFICATIONS.
In no case shall any person be recruited, selected, or appointed as a member of
the department unless such person:
1.   Resident Citizen. Is a citizen of the United States and is approved by the
Fire Department.
2.   Age. Is at least 18 years of age.
3.   Driver’s License. Has a current active Iowa driver’s license.
4.   Character. Has not been convicted of a felony.
35.04   TRAINING.
All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])
35.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.06   FIRE CHIEF APPOINTED.
The Council shall appoint the Fire Chief for a term of one year or to fill a
vacancy. The Council may remove the Fire Chief by written order setting out the
reasons for removal; the order shall be filed with the City Administrator/
Clerk. The Fire Chief, before entering upon the duties of office, shall qualify
for office by taking the oath prescribed in Section
5.01 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.07   DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including (but not limited to) the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Enforce Laws. Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire prevention and
the investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
2.   Technical Assistance. Upon request, give advice concerning private fire
alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits, and
development of fire emergency plans.
3.   Authority at Fires. When in charge of a fire scene, direct an operation as
necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue operation,
investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak, or other
hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the department’s duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
4.   Control of Scenes. Prohibit an individual, vehicle, or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel,
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the Fire
Department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
5.   Authority to Barricade. When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades, or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the Fire
Department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
6.   Command. Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline, and control of the Fire Department. The members of the Fire
Department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.
7.   Property. Exercise and have full control over the disposition of all fire
apparatus, tools, equipment, and other property used by or belonging to the
Fire Department.
8.   Notification. Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property damage in
excess of $200,000.00 has occurred as a result of a fire, or if arson is
suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s Division immediately. For all other
fires causing an estimated damage of $50.00 or more or emergency responses by
the Fire Department, file a report with the Fire Marshal’s Division within 10
days following the end of the month. The report shall indicate all fire
incidents occurring and state the name of the owners and occupants of the
property at the time of the fire, the value of the property, the estimated
total loss to the property, origin of the fire as determined by investigation,
and other facts, statistics, and circumstances concerning the fire incidents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 and 100.3)
9.   Right of Entry. Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
making such investigation or inspection that under law or ordinance may be
necessary to be made and that is reasonably necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.12)
10.   Recommendation. Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers, or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.13)
11.   Assist State Fire Marshal. At the request of the State Fire Marshal, and
as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of duties by
investigating, preventing, and reporting data pertaining to fires.
12.   Records. Cause to be kept records of the Fire Department personnel,
firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and apparatus, the number
of responses to alarms, their cause, and location, and an analysis of losses by
value, type, and location of buildings.
13.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report of
the status and activities of the department as well as such other reports as
may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
35.08   OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief.
35.09   CONSTITUTION.
The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated to
accomplish the object contemplated, and such constitution and bylaws and any
change or amendment to such constitution and bylaws before being effective,
must be approved by the Council.
35.10   ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City. All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61, and Sec. 410.18)
35.11   LIABILITY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or members
of the department for injuries, death, or property damage arising out of and
resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 and 517A.1)
35.12   CALLS OUTSIDE FIRE DISTRICT.
The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
Fire District if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the Fire District.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
35.13   MUTUAL AID.
Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter into
mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments. Copies
of any such agreements shall be filed with the City Administrator/Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
35.14   AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 100 of the Code of Iowa
may issue citations in accordance to Chapter 805 of the Code of Iowa, for
violations of State and/or local fire safety regulations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Liability
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal, and cleanup of
hazardous substance spills within the City limits.
36.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control, identify,
analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual, imminent,
or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance onto the
land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates an
immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
36.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection, dumping,
spilling, leaking, or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the hazardous
substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the environment
or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground
waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied by a
cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety, and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
36.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of, or
loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction, or loss.
4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents of
the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused by
that person.
36.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing of a
hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources and
the Sheriff’s Department/Clayton County Office of Emergency Management of the
occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as possible but not later than six
hours after the onset of the hazardous condition or discovery of the hazardous
condition. The Sheriff's Department/Clayton County Office of Emergency
Management shall immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources.
2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
Sheriff’s Office/Clayton County Office of Emergency Management, which shall
then notify the Department of Natural Resources.
36.06   POLICE AUTHORITY.
If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or an
authorized representative may:
1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition; and
2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
36.07   LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries, or
losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 37
AMBULANCE SERVICE
37.01   JOINT AGREEMENT.
An Agreement for Ambulance Services was entered into and approved between the
City and MercyOne Elkader Medical Center on February 24, 2020.
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault    40.03 Disorderly Conduct
40.02 Harassment 40.04 Failure to Disperse
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
No person shall commit harassment.
1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
   A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law enforcement
authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing that the
information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal act,
knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No person shall do any of the following:
1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or in
or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in athletic
contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1])
2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which causes unreasonable distress to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[2])
3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture
that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent
reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[3])
4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of authority,
disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct intended to
disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[4])
5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate a
report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such report
to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[5])
6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[6])
   A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
   B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
   C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
   D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
   E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
   F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
7.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
   A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
   B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the person
knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction by
another.
   C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral procession,
or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial
service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  41.09 Antenna and
                                                         Radio Wires
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.10 Barbed Wire and
Safety Entities                                          Electric Fences
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.14 Fireworks
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.15 Failure to
Device                                                   Assist
41.08 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any corrosive,
caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person delivers such
into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes reasonable precautions
that the substance will not be taken by children or animals from the place
where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department, a
law enforcement authority, or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or she
is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be a
peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A of
the Code of Iowa, medical examiner, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer,
or a person performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the
Code of Iowa, in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the
lawful duty or authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care
provider, medical examiner, or firefighter, or person performing bailiff
duties, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution by any
authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any court. The
terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do not include verbal
harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by a present ability and
apparent intention to execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind or
to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns, or
other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building, including
but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway, doorway, or
window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14   FIREWORKS.
The sale, use, or exploding of fireworks within the City are subject to the
following:
1.   Definition. The term “fireworks” includes any item or class of items
defined in Section 727.2(1) of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sections 727.2; 100.19)
2.   Fireworks Use Regulations. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode
any fireworks; provided the City may, upon application in writing, grant a
permit for the display of fireworks by a City agency, fair associations,
amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of individuals approved by
City authorities when such fireworks display will be handled by a competent
operator. No permit shall be granted hereunder unless the operator or
sponsoring organization has filed with the City evidence of insurance in the
following amounts:
   A.   Personal Injury:.........................   $250,000 per person.
   B.   Property Damage:......................   $50,000
   C.   Total Exposure:.........................   $1,000,000
(Code of Iowa, Sections 727.2; 364.2(6))
3.   Fireworks Sale Regulations. The City hereby adopts all standards, rules,
regulations, and the like promulgated or that will be promulgated by the State
Fire Marshal regarding the sale of fireworks pursuant to Sections 100.1;
100.19; and 727.2 of the Code of Iowa. The City specifically adopts National
Fire Protection Association standard 1124 with respect to the requirements for
the safe handling, storage, transportation, display, and retail of fireworks.
4.   All other provisions of this Code of Ordinances not in conflict with this
section or with the laws of the State remain valid and enforceable.
(Code of Iowa, Sections 727.2; 364.2(6))
5.   Exceptions. This section does not prohibit the sale by a resident, dealer,
manufacturer, or jobber of such fireworks as are not prohibited; or the sale of
any kind of fireworks if they are to be shipped out of State; or the sale or
use of blank cartridges for a show or theatre, or for signal purposes in
athletic sports, or by railroads or trucks for signal purposes, or by a
recognized military organization. This section does not apply to any substance
or composition prepared and sold for medicinal or fumigation purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
41.15   FAILURE TO ASSIST.
A person who reasonably believes another person is suffering from a risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death shall, if the person is able,
attempt to contact local law enforcement or local emergency response
authorities, if doing so does not place the person or other person at risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death. No person shall without
lawful cause violate the provisions of this section. A person shall not be
required to contact local law enforcement or emergency response authorities if
the person knows or reasonably believes that the other person is not in need of
help or assistance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.12)
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Swimming and Diving From
                                        Municipal Dam Prohibited
42.04 Unauthorized Entry                42.08 Other Public Property Offenses
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
   A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle,
or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
   B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of the
Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of the
Code of Iowa.
   C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
   D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person owning,
leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this State.
   E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property owned,
leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
   F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
      (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
      (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
      (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect of
unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
      (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing therefrom,
altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein anything animate
or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the owner, lessee, or
person in lawful possession.
      (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
      (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
   A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
   B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
(Section 42.02 – Ord. 2023-06 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down, or
destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement, or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06   THEFT.
It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07   SWIMMING AND DIVING FROM MUNICIPAL DAM PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to dive, jump, or fish from, or walk or play on,
the structure known as the “Big Dam” into the Turkey River.
42.08   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
1.   
Chapter 21 – Library
   A.   Section
21.10 – Injury to Books or Property
   B.   Section
21.11 – Theft of Library Property
2.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
   A.   Section
105.08 – Littering Prohibited
3.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
   A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
   B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
   C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
   D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
   E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
   F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
   G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
4.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
   A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
   B.   Section
136.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
   C.   Section
136.16 – Defacing
   D.   Section
136.17 – Debris on Sidewalks
   E.   Section
136.18 – Merchandise Display
   F.   Section
136.19 – Sales Stands
5.   
Chapter 151 – Trees
   A.   Section
151.07 Damaging Trees
(Section 42.08 – Ord. 2023-06 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 43
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
 
43.01 Purpose                      43.04 Determining Factors
43.02 Controlled Substance Defined 43.05 Possession of Drug Paraphernalia
43.03 Drug Paraphernalia Defined   43.06 Manufacture, Delivery, or Offering For
                                   Sale
 
43.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the use, possession with intent to
use, manufacture, and delivery of drug paraphernalia as defined herein.
43.02   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE DEFINED.
The term “controlled substance” as used in this chapter is defined as the term
“controlled substance” is defined in the Uniform Controlled Substance Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, as it now exists or is hereafter amended.
43.03   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA DEFINED.
The term “drug paraphernalia” as used in this chapter means all equipment,
products, and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use, or
designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, concealing, containing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa. It includes, but is not limited to:
1.   Growing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of
plant which is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can
be derived.
2.   Processing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substances.
3.   Isomerization Devices. Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or
designed for use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a
controlled substance.
4.   Testing Equipment. Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed
for use in identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity
of controlled substances.
5.   Scales. Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances.
6.   Diluents. Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, or lactose, used, intended for use, or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances.
7.   Separators; Sifters. Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use,
or designed for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning
or refining marijuana.
8.   Mixing Devices. Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices
used, intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled
substances.
9.   Containers. Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances.
10.   Storage Containers. Containers and other objects used, intended for use,
or designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
11.   Injecting Devices. Hypodermic syringes, needles, and other objects used,
intended for use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled
substances into the human body.
12.   Ingesting-Inhaling Device. Objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing heroin, marijuana,
cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body, such as:
   A.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with or
without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
   B.   Water pipes;
   C.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
   D.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
   E.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such as a
marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand;
   F.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
   G.   Chamber pipes;
   H.   Carburetor pipes;
   I.   Electric pipes;
   J.   Air driven pipes;
   K.   Chillums;
   L.   Bongs;
   M.   Ice pipes or chillers.
43.04   DETERMINING FACTORS.
In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia for the purpose of
enforcing this chapter, the following factors should be considered in addition
to all other logically relevant factors:
1.   Statements. Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use.
2.   Prior Convictions. Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone in
control of the object under any State or federal law relating to any controlled
substance.
3.   Proximity to Violation. The proximity of the object, in time and space, to
a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled Substance Act, Chapter 124 of the
Code of Iowa.
4.   Proximity to Substances. The proximity of the object to controlled
substances.
5.   Residue. The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object.
6.   Evidence of Intent. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an
owner or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he
or she knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate
a violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code
of Iowa.
7.   Innocence of an Owner. The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control
of the object, as to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances
Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, should not prevent a finding that the
object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
8.   Instructions. Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use.
9.   Descriptive Materials. Descriptive materials accompanying the object
explaining or depicting its use.
10.   Advertising. National and local advertising concerning its use.
11.   Displayed. The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
12.   Licensed Distributor or Dealer. Whether the owner, or anyone in control
of the object, is a legitimate supplier of like or related items to the
community, such as a licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
13.   Sales Ratios. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of
the object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise.
14.   Legitimate Uses. The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the
object in the community.
15.   Expert Testimony. Expert testimony concerning its use.
43.05   POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substance Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
43.06   MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY, OR OFFERING FOR SALE.
It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver,
manufacture with intent to deliver, or offer for sale drug paraphernalia,
intending that the drug paraphernalia will be used, or knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know that it will be used, or knowing
that it is designed for use to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform
Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.
1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a retail alcohol licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[3])
2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for the
purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from any
retail alcohol licensee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
(Section 45.01 – Ord. 2022-08 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
45.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of Iowa
and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
   B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine to
determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using devices
and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the Code
of Iowa.
   D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a public
or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer upon the
public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor
in any public place, except premises covered by a retail alcohol license. A
person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer on public
school property or while attending any public or private school-related
function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
(Subsection 2 – Ord. 2022-08 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public intoxication
under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that the person
may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense. If a device
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample of a
person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section
62.01(50) and (51) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04   SOCIAL HOST.
A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
eighteen, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Cigarettes and Tobacco      46.04 Minors In Billiard Rooms
46.02 Contributing to Delinquency 46.05 Curfew
46.03 Minors In Taverns
 
46.01   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.02   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age to
commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
46.03   MINORS IN TAVERNS.
It is unlawful for any person under legal age to enter, remain in, or frequent
a business establishment holding a retail liquor or beer permit unless over 50
percent of the dollar volume of the business establishment comes from the sale
and serving of prepared foods. The provisions of this section do not apply to
premises having a Class C beer permit.
46.04   MINORS IN BILLIARD ROOMS.
It is unlawful for any person who keeps a billiard hall where beer, liquor, or
wine is sold, or the agent, clerk, or employee of any such person, or any
person having charge or control of any such hall, to permit any minor to remain
in such hall or to take part in any of the games known as billiards or pool.
46.05   CURFEW.
1.   Purpose. The City Council hereby determines that curfew for minors is
necessary to promote the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of
the City and specifically to achieve the following purposes:
   A.   Reinforce the primary authority and responsibility of adults
responsible for minors.
   B.   Protect the public from the illegal acts of minors committed
individually and in groups and gangs after the curfew hour.
   C.   Protect minors from improper influences and criminal activity by
individuals and by groups and gangs that prevail in public places after the
curfew hour.
2.   Definitions.
   A.   “Emergency errand” means, but is not limited to, an errand relating to
a fire, natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any other situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious illness, bodily injury, loss of
life, or substantial loss of property.
   B.   “Knowingly” means knowledge which a responsible adult should reasonably
be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that responsible
adult’s custody. It is intended to continue to hold neglectful or careless
adults responsible for a minor to a reasonable community standard of adult
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, therefore, be no defense
that an adult responsible for a minor was completely indifferent to the
activities or conduct or whereabouts of the minor.
   C.   “Minor” means an unemancipated person under the age of 18 years.
   D.   “Nonsecured custody” means custody in an unlocked multi-purpose area,
such as a lobby, office, or interrogation room which is not designed, set
aside, or used as a secure detention area, and the person arrested is not
physically secured during the period of custody in the area; the person is
physically accompanied by a peace officer or a person employed by the facility
where the person arrested is being held; and the use of the area is limited to
providing nonsecure custody only while awaiting transfer to an appropriate
juvenile facility or to court, for contacting of and release to the person’s
parents or other responsible adult or for other administrative purposes; but
not for longer than six hours without the oral or written order of a judge or
magistrate authorizing the detention. A judge shall not extend the period of
time in excess of six hours beyond the initial six-hour period.
   E.   “Public place” shall include shopping centers, parking lots, parks,
playgrounds, streets, alleys, sidewalks dedicated to public use, and shall also
include such parts of buildings and other premises whether publicly or
privately owned which are used by the general public or to which the general
public is invited commercially for a fee or otherwise; or in or on which the
general public is permitted without specific invitation or to which the general
public has access. For purposes of this chapter, a vehicle or other conveyance
is considered to be a public place when in the areas defined above.
   F.   “Responsible adult” means a parent, guardian, or other adult
specifically authorized by law or authorized by a parent or guardian to have
custody or control of a minor.
   G.   “Unemancipated” means unmarried and still under custody or control of a
responsible adult
3.   Curfew Established. Unless accompanied by a responsible adult, no minor
under the age of 18 shall be in any public place during the following times:
   A.   11:00 p.m. – 5:00 a.m. Sunday night through Friday morning.
   B.   Midnight – 5:00 a.m. Friday night through Sunday morning.
4.   Exceptions. The following are exceptions to the curfew:
   A.   The minor is accompanied by a responsible adult.
   B.   When the minor is on the sidewalk or property where the minor resides,
or on either side of the place where the minor resides and the adult
responsible for the minor has given permission for the minor to be there.
   C.   The minor is present at or is traveling between home and one of the
following:
      (1)    Minor’s place of employment in a business, trade, or occupation in
which the minor is permitted by law to be engaged, or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end of work.
      (2)    Minor’s place of religious activity, or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end of the religious activity.
      (3)    Governmental or political activity, or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end of the activity.
      (4)    School activity, or, if traveling, within one hour after the end
of the activity.
      (5)    Assembly such as a march, protest, demonstration, sit-in; or
meeting of an association for the advancement of economic, political,
religious, or cultural matters; or for any other activity protected by the
First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution guarantees of free exercise of
religion, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end of the activity.
   D.   The minor is on an emergency errand for a responsible adult.
   E.   The minor is engaged in interstate travel through the City beginning,
ending, or passing through the City, when such travel is by direct route.
5.   Responsibility of Adults. It is unlawful for any responsible adult to
knowingly permit or allow a minor to be in any public place in the City within
the time period prohibited by this section, unless the minor’s presence falls
within one of the above exceptions.
6.   Enforcement Procedures. See “Juvenile” sections of Police Department
Standard Operating Guidelines and Procedures.
7.   Penalties.
   A.   Responsible Adult’s First Violation – Warning. In the case of a first
violation by a minor, the adult responsible for the minor shall, by personal
service or certified mail, be provided written or verbal notice of the
violation with a warning that any subsequent violation may likely result in
full enforcement of the curfew ordinance against both the responsible adult and
minor, with applicable penalties. A warning shall be documented in accordance
with Police Department Standard Operating Guidelines and Procedures.
   B.   Responsible Adult’s Second or Subsequent Violation – Municipal
Infraction. Any responsible adult as defined in this section who, following
receipt of a warning, knowingly allows the minor to violate any of the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a municipal infraction and upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.00 or imprisonment
not to exceed 30 days. A violation shall be documented in accordance with
Police Department Standard Operating Guidelines and Procedures.
   C.   Minor’s First Violation – Warning. In the case of a first violation by
a minor, the police may give the minor a written or verbal warning, clearly
stating that any subsequent violation may likely result in full enforcement of
the curfew ordinance against the responsible adult and the minor, with
applicable penalties. Upon giving such notice to the minor, a reasonable
attempt to contact an adult responsible for the minor in violation shall be
made, notifying them of the situation. A warning shall be documented in
accordance with Police Department Standard Operating Guidelines and Procedures.
   D.   Minor’s Second or Subsequent Violation – Municipal Infraction. For the
minor’s second and subsequent violations of any of the provisions of this
section, the minor shall commit a municipal infraction. Upon conviction, the
person shall be subject to the penalties provided for in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances, or shall be required to perform community
service as ordered by the court. A violation shall be documented in accordance
with Police Department Standard Operating Guidelines and Procedures.
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose                47.04 Littering
47.02 Use of Drives Required 47.05 Parks Closed
47.03 Fires                  47.06 Camping
 
47.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park facilities
by the general public by establishing rules and regulations governing the use
of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02   USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
No person shall drive any car, cycle, or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the City.
47.03   FIRES.
No fire shall be built, except in a place designated for such purpose, and such
fire shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be
immediately used by some other party.
47.04   LITTERING.
No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter, or foreign
substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that purpose.
47.05   PARKS CLOSED.
No person, except those camping in designated areas, shall enter or remain
within any park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
47.06   CAMPING.
No person shall camp in any portion of a park except in portions prescribed or
designated by the Council, and the City may refuse camping privileges or
rescind any and all camping privileges for cause.
CHAPTER 48
OFF-LEASH DOG FACILITY
 
48.01 Establishment of Facility      48.04 Dog at Large
48.02 Facility Rules and Regulations 48.05 Penalty for Violation
48.03 Annual Registration Required
 
48.01   ESTABLISHMENT OF FACILITY.
1.   Establishment of Facility. The City Administrator/Clerk is hereby
authorized to establish one or more authorized off-leash dog exercise
facilities within the City which meet the requirements of this chapter. Each
authorized off-leash dog exercise facility shall be hereinafter referred to as
a “facility” or as an “authorized facility.” All definitions in
Chapter 55 of this Code of Ordinances shall apply to the provisions of this
chapter.
2.   Characteristics of Authorized Facilities. Each authorized facility
established under this chapter shall meet the following criteria:
   A.   The facility shall be located within a public park or other City-owned
land;
   B.   The facility shall be appropriately and securely fenced and equipped
with at least one self-closing gate;
   C.   The rules and regulations for the use of the facility shall be posted
on a sign at each entrance to the facility; and
   D.   A box containing dog registration forms and a depository for said forms
shall be installed at or near the primary entrance gate to the facility for
owners’ use to properly register eligible dogs on an annual basis.
48.02   FACILITY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The following rules and regulations, in addition to any further rules,
regulations or guidelines to be established at the discretion of the City
Administrator/Clerk shall govern the use of each authorized facility
established under this chapter:
1.   Facility hours: 7:00 a.m. through sunset, seven days per week.
2.   No animals other than dogs may be brought into the fenced area.
3.   Dogs shall have on a collar with ID and current rabies vaccination tags at
all times while in the facility. Owners shall keep a copy of any dog
registration documentation provided by the City on their person or phone for
inspection upon request by any other facility user or City employee.
4.   All dogs must be leashed until safely inside and returned to a leash prior
to exiting. Owners must have one leash per dog at all times.
5.   Dog owners must remain in the fenced area while their dogs are using the
facility. Owners must be in view of their dogs with voice control at all times.
6.   Dog owners must be 18 years of age or older to be allowed in facility area
unsupervised. Children accompanying dog owners must be strictly supervised by
an adult and shall be at least 12 years old to be allowed inside. Spectators
should remain outside the fenced area.
7.   Vicious, dangerous, or aggressive dogs, including those defined or
adjudicated as vicious pursuant to
Chapter 55 of this Code of Ordinances, and female dogs in heat, are not allowed
inside the facility under any circumstances.
8.   Owners must immediately leash and remove dogs from the facility at the
first sign of aggressive, hostile, or combative behavior. Any dog found to have
bitten another dog or person will be subject to suspension or revocation of
facility privileges and may also be subject to citation in accordance with
Chapters
3 and
55 of this Code of Ordinances.
9.   Owners are responsible for and are required to pick up after their dogs.
All dog waste must be collected and disposed of by the owner in the dog waste
receptacles provided.
10.   Owners must fill all holes created by their dogs and are responsible for
reporting to the City Administrator/Clerk any damages to the facility, fencing,
or other equipment caused by their dog or the dog of another owner.
11.   While small, bite-sized training treats are permitted, food in bowls,
long-lasting chews, rawhides, or glass containers are not permitted.
12.   Smoking and eating are not allowed inside the facility.
13.   Sick or injured dogs are not allowed. Owners of dogs with a known
sickness or injury or displaying sick or injured behavior will be required to
remove their dog immediately.
14.   Each adult may have a maximum of two dogs at a time in the facility.
15.   Puppies less than four months old are not permitted.
16.   All dog bites or attacks must be immediately reported to the Police
Department or City Administrator/Clerk. In addition, owners are required to
assist in the investigation of incidents of aggression or biting by providing
appropriate identification and information to the responding or investigating
officials, and to other dog owners who are involved with the incident under
investigation. Failure to provide assistance and identification as requested
will result in immediate revocation of all facility privileges. Owners are
solely liable for any injury or damage caused by their dog and are fully
responsible for their dog's actions.
17.   Owners are responsible for any injury or damage caused by their dog.
Owners shall prevent injuries by supervising said owner’s dog at all times.
Owners shall never leave a dog unattended. If an owner’s dog inflicts an
injury, owner of the dog inflicting the injury shall give said owner’s name and
telephone number to the other dog owner before leaving. Owners are at all times
solely responsible for their dog's behavior and any damage their dog may cause.
18.   All dogs and owners use the facility at their own risk. The City shall
not be liable for any property, physical, or pet damage or injury occurring
within the off-leash area. In addition, by using the facility owners are
accepting full responsibility for their actions and the actions of their dogs.
19.   Strollers, bicycles, tricycles, big-wheels, wagons, rollerblades, etc.
are not permitted in the facility, except wheelchairs used by people with
disabilities.
20.   Owners and facility users must wear shoes at all times.
21.   No attendant will be on duty.
22.   Remove choke, spike, pinch, prong, or collars that may injure other dogs
BEFORE play is allowed.
23.   The off-leash dog area is for dogs, their handlers, and those
accompanying them. No other use is allowed. These areas are designated for
canine activities. It is not intended for any other purpose.
24.   Owners who fail to abide by rules and regulations are subject to loss of
facility privileges and may be subject to citation pursuant to Chapters
3 and
55 of this Code of Ordinances, where applicable.
25.   Animals or owners whose privileges have been suspended or revoked may be
posted by the City to notify other owners or facility users.
48.03   ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
Every dog owner using the facilities established under this chapter must
register their dogs before entry. Registrations must be renewed annually using
the forms provided by the City Administrator/Clerk, which forms will also be
made available to facility users at each facility established under this
chapter. Owners must keep all registration documents in their possession and
available for inspection at all times while using the facility. Registrations
must be renewed each year, and renewal registrations must be submitted on or
before January 31 of each calendar year to be considered timely. All
registration applications must contain all information requested on the
application and must be accompanied by payment of a $10.00 fee for each animal
registered.
48.04   DOG AT LARGE.
A person who brings a dog into an authorized facility and complies in all
respects with the provisions of this section, including any rules and
regulations established as provided this chapter, shall not be deemed to have
permitted or allowed the dog to be at-large within the City, within the meaning
of
chapter 55 of this Code of Ordinances.
48.05   PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, including any rules or
regulations established hereunder and posted as required herein, shall
constitute a municipal infraction, with a fine of $25.00 for the first offense
and $50.00 for any subsequent offense.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Other Conditions       50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without legal
authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of water.
4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the water
of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by fences,
buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets, alleys,
commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether erected
and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and impair the
view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway, boulevard, or
alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render dangerous the use
thereof. (See also Section
62.06) 
7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk, such
as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also
Chapter 51) 
8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other vegetation
in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within 1,000
feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or landing
place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-off and
landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or enjoyment
of the land on which the same is located.
12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, or breaches of the peace are carried
on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
13.   Attractive Nuisances and Other Hazardous Conditions. Any attractive
nuisance or any hazardous thing or condition dangerous to children or which may
contribute to injury of any person present on the property. Such attractive
nuisances or hazardous conditions include but are not limited to abandoned
vehicles, abandoned or broken equipment, hazardous pools, ponds, excavations,
materials, including building material, debris or neglected machinery, open
holes, open foundations, open wells, dangerous trees or limbs, abandoned
refrigerators, and trapping devices.
14.   Fire and Health Hazards. Any thing or condition on property creating a
fire hazard or in violation of the State Fire Code, as determined by the Fire
Chief, or any thing or condition on property creating an imminent threat to
human health or in violation of any health or sanitation law.
50.03   OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
2.   Sanitary Sewer Facilities (See Chapters
95 and
96)
3.   Drainage Connections (See
Chapter 97)
4.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
5.   Dangerous Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
6.   Building Numbering (See
Chapter 150)
7.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
50.04   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance, public
or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.07. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall contain: †
4   
   A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
   B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
   C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
   D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
   E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or condition
is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within the time
prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the property
owner.
2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or sent
by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the City Administrator/Clerk
within the time stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that
a nuisance exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before
the Council at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the
Council shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be
ordered abated within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or condition
neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the required
action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred. The
itemized expense account shall be filed with the City Administrator/Clerk, who
shall pay such expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
6.   Collection of Costs. The City Administrator/Clerk shall send a statement
of the total expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has
failed to abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the
statement has not been paid within one month, the City Administrator/Clerk
shall certify the costs to the County Treasurer and such costs shall then be
collected with, and in the same manner as, general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to abate
the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the assessment
to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same manner and
with the same interest rates provided for assessments against benefited
property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who shall
fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time required
and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
4 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery,
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery, or appliances; iron,
steel, or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass,
tinware, plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly
stacked firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the County
Treasurer or unlicensed and having any of the following characteristics:
   A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield, window,
headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
   B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel, or trunk lid.
   C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
   D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
   E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
   F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of its
defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to the
public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices moved
by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04   EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within a garage or other enclosed structure.
51.05   NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section
51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
NOISE CONTROL
 
52.01 Scope of Regulations         52.05 Excluded Sounds
52.02 Definitions                  52.06 Other Laws and Ordinances
52.03 Noise Disturbance Prohibited 52.07 Permits
52.04 Included Sounds
 
52.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
This chapter applies to the control of all noise originating within the limits
of the City, except in the following cases: (i) a State or federal agency has
adopted a different standard or rule than that prescribed within this chapter
which preempts the regulation of noise from a particular source so as to render
this chapter inapplicable; (ii) the Council has determined that, by reason of
public acceptance of the activity producing a particular noise or noises, such
noise is deemed acceptable to the residents of the City; or (iii) the person or
organization has applied for and received a noise permit from the City.
52.02   DEFINITIONS.
Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a different
intention, the following terms have the following meanings:
1.   “Emergency” means any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual
or imminent physical or psychological damage which demands immediate action.
2.   “Emergency work” means any work performed for the purpose of alleviating
or resolving an emergency.
3.   “Motorcycle” means any two- or three-wheeled motor vehicle.
4.   “Motor vehicle” means any motor-powered vehicle designed to carry at least
one passenger or driver and of type typically for use on the public highways.
“Motor vehicle” includes most motorcycles.
5.   “Noise” means any sound which disturbs humans or which causes or tends to
cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
6.   “Noise disturbance” means those sounds enumerated in Section
52.04 of this chapter.
7.   “Powered model vehicle” means any self-propelled airborne, waterborne, or
land-borne model plane, vessel, or vehicle which is not designed to carry
persons, including, but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car or
rocket.
8.   “Public right-of-way” means the traveled portion of any street or alley or
similar place which is owned or controlled by the City or other governmental
entity.
9.   “Real property boundary” means an imaginary line along the ground surface,
and its vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one
person from that owned by another person, but not including intra-building real
property divisions.
10.   “Recreational vehicle” means any motor-powered vehicle designed to carry
at least one passenger or driver and equipped for use in racing or other
recreational events or uses off of the public right-of-way on public or private
property; except, however, for the purposes of this chapter, any such vehicle
which is licensed for use on the public highway is deemed a “motor vehicle” or
“motorcycle” (if two- or three-wheeled) and not a “recreational vehicle.”
Examples of recreational vehicles include, but are not limited to, a
snowmobile, a minibike, a stock car, or motorboat.
11.   “Residential property” means any property on which is located a building
or structure used wholly or partially for living or sleeping purposes.
12.   “Sound” means an oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle
velocity, or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that
cause compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound may
include any characteristic of such sound, including duration, intensity, and
frequency.
13.   “Sound equipment” means any radio, record player, tape deck or player,
loud speaker, amplifier, sound track, or other device for producing,
reproducing, or amplifying sound, except, however, “sound equipment” does not
include: (i) sirens and other equipment used to alert persons to the existence
of an emergency; (ii) equipment used by law enforcement and other public safety
officials in the performance of their duties; (iii) church carillons, bells, or
chimes; (iv) mobile radio or telephone signaling devices; and (v) automobile
and truck radios, tape decks or players, or other such standard equipment used
and intended for the use and enjoyment of the occupants provided that the sound
emitted therefrom is not audible for more than 50 feet from such automobile or
truck.
52.03   NOISE DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to willfully make or continue or cause to allow
to be made or continued any noise disturbance within the City.
52.04   INCLUDED SOUNDS.
Except for sounds excluded in Section
52.05, the term “noise disturbance” means any of the following sounds:
1.   Injurious or Disturbing Sounds Generally. Any sound which endangers or
injures the welfare, safety, or health of a human being or disturbs a
reasonable human being of normal sensitivities or causes or tends to cause
adverse physiological or physical effect on human beings or devalues or injures
the property.
2.   Loading and Unloading. The sound made by outdoor loading, unloading,
opening, closing, or handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials,
garbage cans, trash receptacles, or similar objects between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 6:30 a.m. within any area of City zoned residential or at the real
property boundary of residential property.
3.   Engine Repairs and Testing. The sound made by the repairing, rebuilding,
modifying, or testing of a motor vehicle or recreational vehicle which is
received between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:30 a.m. at the real property
boundary of residential property.
4.   Musical Instruments. The sound made by a drum, horn, reed instrument,
string instrument, or other musical instrument or device which is received
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:30 a.m. at the real property boundary of
residential property.
5.   Off-Road Motorcycle and Recreational Vehicle Noise. The sound made on
private property or on City-owned property other than a public right-of-way by
a motorcycle or recreational vehicle and received between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 6:30 a.m. at the real property boundary of residential property;
provided however, the sound made by a motorcycle when traveling from private
property to a public right-of-way, or vice versa, in pursuance of normal
ingress or egress for purposeful transportation is not a noise disturbance
unless made so by some provisions of this section other than this subsection.
6.   Construction Noise. The sound made by tools or equipment in erection,
demolition, excavation, drilling, or other such construction work which is
received between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:30 a.m. at the real property
boundary of residential property.
7.   Sound Equipment. The sound made by sound equipment operated upon the
public right-of-way or in any building or upon any premises, public or private,
if plainly audible from any public right-of-way within the City between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:30 a.m. or upon any school grounds or in any school
zone during normal school hours.
8.   Screeching Tires. The sound made by the intentional screeching or
squealing of the tires of a motor vehicle in areas of the City zoned
residential or commercial.
9.   Noisy Exhaust System. The sound made by a motor vehicle or a recreational
vehicle whose exhaust system has been modified by the installation of a muffler
cut-out or bypass.
52.05   EXCLUDED SOUNDS.
Any other provision of Section
52.04 or other section of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, the
term “noise disturbance” does not mean or include the following sounds:
1.   Emergencies. The sound emitted in the performance of emergency work or to
alert persons to the existence of an emergency.
2.   Alarms. The sound emitted by the intentional sounding outdoors of any
fire, burglar, or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle, or similar stationary
emergency signaling device for emergency purposes, or for the essential testing
of such device, when conducted between the hours of 6:30 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
3.   Church Bells. The sound emitted by church carillons, bells, or chimes.
4.   Automobile Radios. The sound emitted by an automobile or truck radio, tape
deck or player, or other such standard equipment used and intended for the use
and enjoyment of such vehicle’s occupants while such vehicle is on the public
right-of-way, provided that the sound emitted therefrom is not audible for more
than 50 feet and which is heard continuously for a period of time exceeding 10
minutes.
5.   Snow Removal Equipment. The sound emitted by motor-powered, muffler-
equipped snow removal equipment and City-owned or hired snow removal equipment.
6.   Certain Signaling Devices. The sound emitted by mobile radio or telephone
signaling devices.
7.   Religious Ceremonies. The sound emitted in conjunction with a religious
celebration.
8.   Law Enforcement. The sounds made or caused to be made by law enforcement
officials in the performance of their official duties.
9.   Lawn and Garden Equipment. The sound emitted by motor-powered, muffler-
equipped lawn and garden equipment operated between the hours of 6:30 a.m. and
9:00 p.m.
10.   Chain Saws. The sound emitted by motor-powered tree trimming equipment
operated between the hours of 6:30 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
11.   School Activities. The sounds made by students, employees, or the general
public while in attendance at any school-sponsored event.
12.   Parades. The sound made by participants and observers of any parade that
has been approved.
13.   City Operations. The sound made or caused to be made by City-owned or
hired equipment or facilities for the conduct of City operations.
52.06   OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
No provisions of this chapter should be construed to legalize or permit sounds,
devices, or activities made unlawful by State or federal statutes or this Code
of Ordinances.
52.07   PERMITS.
Any person, organization, or business may apply for a permit to allow a noise
covered in this chapter for a specified date and time. The person,
organization, or business must complete a Noise Permit Application and return
it to City Hall a minimum of 14 calendar days before the day and time of permit
request. The fee for the permit shall be $10.00 for the first permit and $5.00
for each subsequent permit within a 12-month period. After 12 months from the
first issued permit to a person, organization, or business, the fee shall be
$10.00, as it would constitute a new 12-month period.
CHAPTER 53
MOWING OF PROPERTIES
 
53.01 Mowing Requirements 53.04 Notice
53.02 Exceptions          53.05 Failure to Comply
53.03 Violation
 
53.01   MOWING REQUIREMENTS.
Any property within the City zoned residential, commercial, or manufacturing is
required to be mowed any time the vegetation (grass and weeds) reaches a height
of more than eight inches. The property owner is responsible for mowing the
abutting space between the lot line and the curb line or edge of the traveled
portion of the street right-of-way and one half of any alley abutting the
property.
53.02   EXCEPTIONS.
This chapter does not apply to wooded areas, or areas where, due to grade or
other circumstances, the City deems it is not reasonable to mow.
53.03   VIOLATION.
Violation of the requirements of this chapter will be determined by visual
observation and measurement. Where a violation has occurred, the City will
provide notice as specified in this chapter.
53.04   NOTICE.
The notice shall: (i) specify a reasonable time for the property owner to cut
the vegetation (grass and weeds) so the height conforms to the requirements of
this chapter; (ii) be served upon the property owner either personally or by
certified mail (return receipt requested) to the last known address of the
property owner; and (iii) inform the property owner failure to comply with the
notice will result in the City abating the violation by cutting the vegetation,
with the cost to be assessed against the property in the same manner as a
property tax. The notice shall further instruct the property owner the notice
constitutes continuing notice for the balance of the growing season and no
similar notice will be issued for subsequent violations of this chapter,
provided the City shall post notice upon the property at least 24 hours prior
to its abatement of subsequent violations during the balance of the growing
season.
53.05   FAILURE TO COMPLY.
If the property owner fails to cut the vegetation so that it conforms with this
chapter within the time period set forth in the notice, the City may cause the
vegetation to be cut and the cost thereof may be collected from the property
owner, or be assessed against the property. The fee for this service will be
set by resolution.
CHAPTER 54
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE REGULATIONS
 
54.01 Purpose                   54.04 Nuisances
54.02 Authority for Enforcement 54.05 Abatement of Nuisances
54.03 Interference
 
54.01   PURPOSE.
The purposes of these regulations are to designate the responsibilities of
persons for maintenance of residential and commercial structures and buildings
within the City, whether principal or accessory, occupied or vacant
(hereinafter referred to as “structures” for purposes of this chapter); to
define nuisances to include the failure to perform such maintenance; and to
provide for the abatement of such nuisances to provide for the health, safety,
and welfare of the City’s residents.
54.02   AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall be responsible for the enforcement of this
chapter and shall have all necessary authority to carry out such enforcement.
The City Administrator/Clerk may delegate enforcement authority to a “Property
Maintenance Official.”
54.03   INTERFERENCE.
No person shall interfere with the City Administrator/Clerk or Property
Maintenance Official while engaged in the enforcement of this chapter. A
violation of this provision shall constitute a simple misdemeanor.
54.04   NUISANCES.
A failure to satisfy any one or more of the following provisions shall
constitute a nuisance:
1.   General. All structures shall be maintained in good repair and in
structurally sound and sanitary condition as provided herein, so as not to
cause or contribute to the creation of a blighted area or adversely affect
public health or safety.
2.   Rodents and Vermin. All structures shall be kept free from rodent and
vermin harborage and infestation. Where rodents or vermin are found, they shall
be promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to
human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to
eliminate rodent or vermin harborage and prevent re-infestation.
3.   Protective Treatment. All exterior surfaces, including, but not limited to
doors, windows, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, and siding
shall be maintained in good condition. Finished exterior wood surfaces, other
than decay-resistant wood, shall be protected from the elements and decay by
painting or application of other protective covering or treatment as are
appropriate under the circumstances. Peeling, flaking, and chipped paint shall
be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and masonry joints, as well as
those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors, and
skylights, shall be maintained weather resistant and watertight. Plywood
sheeting, house wrap, tar paper, insulation board, and similar construction
materials, not designed or intended to be utilized as finished exterior
surfaces, shall be covered with a finished exterior surface designed and
intended for exterior use, including but not limited to vinyl, wood, or
engineered wood siding; masonry products such as brick or stone; or
applications such as stucco.
4.   Foundation Walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and free
from open cracks and breaks, and shall be kept in such condition to prevent the
entry of rodents or vermin.
5.   Exterior Walls. All exterior walls shall be maintained plumb (unless
otherwise designed or engineered); free from cracks, holes, breaks, and loose
or rotting materials; and maintained weatherproof and properly surface coated
where required to prevent deterioration.
6.   Roofs and Drainage. All roofs and flashing of shall be sound, tight, and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters, and down spouts shall be maintained in good repair, with
proper anchorage, and free from obstructions.
7.   Stairways, Decks, Porches, and Balconies. Every exterior stairway, deck,
porch, or balcony, and all appurtenances thereto, shall be maintained in
structurally sound condition, in good repair, and with proper anchorage, and
capable of supporting normally imposed loads.
8.   Chimneys and Towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained in structurally sound condition and
in good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from
the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-
coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
9.   Handrails and Guardrails. Every handrail and guardrail shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads, and shall be
maintained in good condition.
10.   Basement Entrances. Every basement hatchway or exterior basement entrance
shall be maintained to prevent entry of rodents or vermin, and shall be
maintained so as to not allow rain or surface drainage water to enter.
11.   Broken or Boarded Doors or Windows. Broken or boarded up exterior doors
or windows shall be replaced or repaired.
12.   Standing Water. Basements, cellars, and crawl spaces shall be free of
standing water.
54.05   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
The City Administrator/Clerk or Property Maintenance Official may abate any
nuisance identified pursuant to this chapter in accordance with the procedures
for abatement of nuisances contained in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances. Any violation of this chapter shall also
constitute a municipal infraction pursuant to
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                  55.12 Vicious Dogs
55.02 Livestock                    55.13 Keeping of Dangerous Animals
                                   Prohibited
55.03 Livestock Neglect            55.14 Seizure, Impoundment, and Disposition
55.04 Animal Neglect               55.15 Rabies Vaccination
55.05 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs 55.16 Owner’s Duty
55.06 At Large Prohibited          55.17 Confinement
55.07 At Large: Impoundment        55.18 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.08 Disposition of Animals       55.19 Deer Feeding Regulations
55.09 Damage or Interference       55.20 Tampering With A Rabies Vaccination
                                   Tag
55.10 Cleaning Up After Animals    55.21 Tampering With An Electronic Handling
                                   Device
55.11 Annoyance or Disturbance
 
55.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium, including
(but not limited to) print, radio, television, sign, display, label, tag, or
articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
3.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain dogs
or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
4.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the control
of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in a
veterinary hospital or kennel.
5.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
   B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
   C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
   D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
6.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
7.   Dangerous animal” means (a) any animal which is not naturally tame or
gentle, and which is of a wild nature or disposition, and which is capable of
killing, inflicting serious injury upon or causing disease among human beings
or domestic animals and having known tendencies as a species to do so; (b) any
animal declared to be dangerous by the City Council; and (c) the following
animals, which are deemed to be dangerous animals per se:
   A.   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, skunk and mink.
   B.   Raccoons.
   C.   Bats.
   D.   Scorpions.
   E.   Opossums.
   F.   Piranhas
8.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
   C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
9.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in Section
99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
10.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an animal’s
health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or organ, or
the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
11.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
12.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring an
animal.
13.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
14.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
15.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine, veterinary
medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital, diagnostic
or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific establishment
situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or instruction
concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the cause,
prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human beings
or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
16.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169 of
the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
55.02   LIVESTOCK.
It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by written
consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations. No livestock shall be left unattended in any City park, parking
lot, or public way. No livestock can be ridden on a public sidewalk or the
Riverwalk. Horses attached to a carriage are exempt from this provision.
55.03   LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place to
fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices, or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance, or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04   ANIMAL NEGLECT.
1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
   A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
   B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably sufficient
to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.  Access to snow or ice does not satisfy this
requirement.
   C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
   D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate protection
from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age, species, and
physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a state of
good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is endangered. The
shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun and have adequate
bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and dampness. A shelter
may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
   E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent adverse
health effects or suffering.
   F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
      (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s welfare
as described in this section.
      (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal to
suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part of
the commercial establishment’s operation.
      (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as described
in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care requirements
provided in Section 162.10A[1] of the Code of Iowa, including any applicable
rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship applying
to: (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section 162.10A
[2a] or [2b] of the Code of Iowa; or (ii) a permittee operating pursuant to
Section 162.10A[2c] of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or renewed
a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa, and performs functions within the
scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the research
facility.
55.05   ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept ownership
and custody of the cat or dog.
2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or that has been issued
or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
55.06   AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.07   AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded at the impoundment facilities utilized by the City, or at the
discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served a summons to appear
before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
55.08   DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two days after impoundment, if the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal. Impounded animals may be recovered by
the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if an unvaccinated dog, by
having it immediately vaccinated. If the owner fails to redeem the animal
within 10 days from the date that the notice is mailed, or if the owner cannot
be located within seven days, the animal shall be disposed of in accordance
with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37, 351.41)
55.09   DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.10   CLEANING UP AFTER ANIMALS.
It is the duty of every person owning or having custody or control of an animal
to clean up and remove the feces deposited by such animal at all times when
said animal is not on the owner’s premises. Such animal feces shall be disposed
of in a sanitary manner.
55.11   ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles.
55.12   VICIOUS DOGS.
It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious dog within the City.
A vicious dog means a dog, while running at large, has attacked or bitten any
person without provocation, or any dog that has exhibited vicious propensities:
(i) by biting a person on two separate occasions within a 12-month period; (ii)
did bite once causing injuries above the shoulders of the person; (iii) could
not be controlled or restrained by the owner at the time of the bite; (iv) has
attacked or bitten any domestic animal or fowl on two separate occasions within
a 12-month period; or (v) which has been found to possess such a propensity by
the Council, after a hearing. After receiving a report of a vicious dog and
after investigation affirming this report, a police officer may enter the
premises of the owner (with the owner’s consent or with a search warrant) and
remove and impound the dog. The owner shall have 10 days to claim the dog and
provide proof that the dog will no longer be kept within the City limits or
request a hearing before Council to appeal the determination of “vicious dog.”
If the dog is not claimed within 10 days, the dog will be euthanized.
55.13   KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor any dangerous animal as a pet, or act
as a temporary custodian for such animal, or keep, shelter, or harbor such
animal for any other purpose or in any other capacity within the City except in
the following circumstances:
1.   The keeping of dangerous animals for exhibition to the public by a bona
fide traveling circus, carnival, exhibit, or show.
2.   The keeping of dangerous animals in a bona fide licensed veterinary
hospital for treatment.
3.   Any dangerous animals under the jurisdiction of, and in the possession of
the Iowa Department of Natural Resources, pursuant to Chapters 481A and 481B of
the Code of Iowa.
55.14   SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT, AND DISPOSITION.
1.   In the event that a dangerous animal is found at large and unattended upon
public property, park property, public right-of-way, or the property of someone
other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard to persons or property, such
animal may, in the discretion of the Mayor, City Administrator/Clerk, or Police
Chief, be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured. The City shall be
under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous animal found
at large, nor shall it have a duty to notify the owner of such animal prior to
its destruction.
2.   Upon the complaint of any individual that a person is keeping, sheltering,
or harboring a dangerous animal on premises in the City, the City
Administrator/Clerk shall cause the matter to be investigated and, if after
investigation, the facts indicate that the person named in the complaint is
keeping, sheltering, or harboring a dangerous animal in the City, the City
Administrator/Clerk shall order the person named in the complaint to safely
remove such animal from the City, permanently place the animal with an
organization or group allowed to possess dangerous animals, or destroy the
animal within three days of the receipt of such an order. Such order shall be
contained in a notice to remove the dangerous animal, which notice shall be
given in writing to the person keeping, sheltering, or harboring the dangerous
animal and shall be served personally or by certified mail. Such order and
notice to remove the dangerous animal shall not be required where such animal
has previously caused serious physical harm or death to any person, in which
case the Mayor, City Administrator/Clerk, or Police Chief shall cause the
animal to be immediately seized and impounded or killed if seizure and
impoundment are not possible without risk of serious physical harm or death to
any person.
3.   The order to remove a dangerous animal may be appealed to the Council. In
order to appeal such order, written notice of appeal must be filed with the
City Administrator/Clerk within three days after receipt of the order. Failure
to file such written notice of appeal shall constitute a waiver of the right to
appeal the order.
4.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and shall be
delivered personally or by certified mail to the City Administrator/Clerk. The
hearing of such appeal shall be scheduled within seven days of the receipt of
the notice of appeal. The hearing may be continued for good cause. After such
hearing, the Council may affirm or reverse the order. Such determination shall
be contained in a written decision and shall be filed with the City
Administrator/Clerk within three days after the hearing or any continued
session thereof.
5.   If the Council affirms the order, the Council shall order in its written
decision that the person owning, sheltering, harboring, or keeping such
dangerous animal remove such animal from the City, permanently place such
animal with an organization or group allowed to possess dangerous animals, or
destroy it. The decision and order shall immediately be served upon the person
against whom rendered in the same manner as the notice of removal. If the
original order is not appealed and is not complied with within three days, or
the order of the Council after appeal is not complied with within three days of
its issuance, the City is authorized to seize, impound, or destroy such
dangerous or vicious animal. Failure to comply with the order issued pursuant
to this chapter and not appealed, or of the Council after appeal, constitutes a
municipal infraction and violators shall be subject to the penalties provided
for in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
55.15   RABIES VACCINATION.
Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal. It is
unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession, six
months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies. Dogs kept
in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are not
subject to these vaccination requirements.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.16   OWNER’S DUTY.
It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten or
attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.17   CONFINEMENT.
If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs. If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after 10 days the board may
humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to its owner, the owner
shall pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if a police
service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the
performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.18   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
   A.   A prize for participating in a game.
   B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
   C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
   D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care, or disposition of the pet.
2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
   B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting, or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.19   DEER FEEDING REGULATIONS.
No person shall engage in the artificial feeding of deer within the City
limits.
1.   “Artificial feeding” shall be defined as the placement of shelled corn or
other types of grain, salt or minerals, or fruit or vegetable matter on the
ground or in feeders, mangers, or any other type of structure or receptacle for
the purpose of feeding or attracting deer on any private or public property.
2.   The prohibition does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   Use of bird feeders or their equivalent for the primary purpose of
feeding of birds;
   B.   Cultivation of naturally growing grains, fruits, or vegetables for
purposes other than the feeding of deer, but which inadvertently attract deer.
3.   Violation of this section shall constitute a municipal infraction and the
penalty shall be:
   A.   First Offense – written warning;
   B.   Second Offense – $25.00;
   C.   Third Offense – $50.00;
   D.   Subsequent offenses after the third offense shall carry a penalty of
$100.00.
55.20   TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag if
all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies vaccination
tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.21   TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
   B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached to
an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness, or
vest.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
CHAPTER 56
BOW HUNTING OF DEER
 
56.01 Definitions                            56.03 Hunting
56.02 Bow Hunting Allowed Within City Limits 56.04 Legal Provisions
 
56.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use of this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Arrow” shall be limited as to the arrows allowed by the Iowa Department
of Natural Resources (DNR), except a hunter with a disability may qualify under
DNR guidelines to use an alternative propelled device.
2.   “Bow” shall be limited as to the bows allowed by the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources (DNR), except a hunter with a disability may qualify under
DNR guidelines to use an alternative bow.
3.   “Elevated stand” means at a height of at least six vertical feet off the
ground in a manufactured tree stand with an approved safety harness to ensure
that the hunter’s body is not in contact with the ground and to ensure a
downward thrust of the arrow released by bow hunting, except a hunter with a
disability may qualify under DNR guidelines to use an alternative to the
elevated stand. Stands must be tagged to identify the owner. No screw-in steps
are to be used.
4.   “License” means a State hunting license issued by the DNR.
5.   “Permission form” means a document issued by the City, which requires the
hunter to receive written authorization from the property owner or property
manager for the hunter to hunt on the private property and to file the document
with the City.
6.   “Usable portion” means any part of a deer that is customarily processed
for consumption.
56.02   BOW HUNTING ALLOWED WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
1.   Bow hunting shall be allowed within the City limits.
2.   The dates for the City’s season for bow hunting of deer will be concurrent
with the State of Iowa’s legal bow season.
3.   The hunting distance separation requirements shall be:
   A.   Hunter cannot hunt within 200 feet (66.6 yards) from a home or
building.
      (1)   Except when hunting on their own property while adhering to the
distance requirement from a home or building of adjoining property owners.
      (2)   Except when a property owner waives the distance requirement in a
written statement filed with the City on a form prepared by the City.
   B.   Hunter cannot position or use an elevated stand within 100 feet (33.3
yards) from a recreation trail, street, alley, or river, and no shot shall be
taken that may cross or enter into the same.
   C.   All shots of an arrow shall be from an elevated stand, shall be on a
downward thrust no further than 75 feet (25 yards), and the hunter shall
attempt to retrieve every arrow.
56.03   HUNTING.
1.   Hunters with the license for the bow hunting of deer shall meet the
requirements established by the DNR, except when the City regulations are more
restrictive than the State regulations.
   A.   The hunter shall successfully complete an annual archery proficiency
test and provide proof prior to being able to hunt in the City’s areas.
   B.   The hunter shall successfully complete a 10-hour bow hunter safety
education course and provide proof prior to being able to hunt in the City’s
areas.
2.   The minimum age set by the City for a hunter to participate in the special
bow hunting of antlerless deer shall be 16 years old on the day of the hunt.
3.   Each hunter shall carry on his or her person when hunting:
   A.   A license for bow hunting for deer from the DNR; and
   B.   The written permission form to bow hunt on the private property from
the property owner or property manager.
4.   Hunter shall not leave a usable portion of the deer in the field. Hunter
shall not dispose of any animal part on any public property, including road-
side ditches. In the case of private property, viscera and other offal shall be
disposed of in a manner that is acceptable to the property owner and in a
location that is not visible from adjoining public or private property.
5.   In case the hunter wounds a deer under this program and the deer wanders
off the property being hunted onto other property not being hunted, the hunter
shall attempt to notify the other property owner before entering the other
property to recover the wounded deer and follow all regulations set out by the
State.
56.04   LEGAL PROVISIONS.
1.   No person shall pursue, hunt, kill, snare, net, trap, search for, shoot
at, stalk, or lie in wait for any animal with a bow and arrow, except as
provided in this chapter.
2.   Failure of a hunter to comply with City or State regulations may subject
the hunter to revocation of his or her ability to hunt within the City limits
or subject the hunter to other legal action.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic        60.08 Parades Regulated
 
60.01   TITLE.
Chapters
60 through
70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the “Elkader Traffic
Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code.”)
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including the
following designated streets:
   A.   Bridge Street from westerly end of Keystone Bridge to First Street.
   B.   South Main Street from Boardman Street SW to Spruce Street NW.
   C.   First Street NW from Boardman Street SW to Spruce Street NW.
   D.   Mulberry Street SW from the Turkey River to First Street NW.
   E.   Cedar Street NW from North Main Street to First Street NW.
   F.   Spruce Street NW from North Main Street to First Street NW.
2.   “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or vehicles organized
for marching or moving on the streets in an organized fashion or manner or any
march or procession of persons or vehicles represented or advertised to the
public as a parade.
3.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
4.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
5.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban, or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
6.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
7.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving
or discharging passengers.
8.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
9.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle, even
momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
10.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in the
business, school, or residence districts.
11.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the purpose
of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
12.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or alley.
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the Fire
Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event of an
emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading, or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08   PARADES REGULATED.
No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
1.   Permit Required. No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining a
written permit from the Police Chief. Such permit shall state the time and date
for the parade to be held and the streets or general route therefor. Such
written permit granted to the person organizing or sponsoring the parade shall
be permission for all participants therein to parade when such participants
have been invited by the permittee to participate therein. No fee shall be
required for such permit.
2.   Parade Not a Street Obstruction. Any parade for which a permit has been
issued as herein required, and the persons lawfully participating therein,
shall not be deemed an obstruction of the streets notwithstanding the
provisions of any other ordinance to the contrary.
3.   Control by Police and Firefighters. Persons participating in any parade
shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in the
performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01   INSTALLATION.
The Police Chief shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or
emergency or temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency
or temporary condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or
warn traffic. The Police Chief shall keep a record of all such traffic control
devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02   CROSSWALKS.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic control
devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such other places
as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.03   TRAFFIC LANES.
The Police Chief is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.04   STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05   COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Milling
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle      62.08 Loud Stereo or Radio
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
9.   Section 321.91 – Limitation on liability; penalty for abandonment.
10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed; operation of commercial vehicles.
15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicles with expired license.
16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits, commercial learner’s permits, and
chauffeur’s instruction permits.
17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged fourteen
through seventeen.
18.   Section 321.193 – Restrictions on licenses; penalty.
19.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ licenses.
20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order;
penalties.
21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card; penalty.
22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified; penalties.
25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
29.   Section 321.223 – Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle rental.
30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles, highway use.
33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
34.   Section 321.235B – Low-speed electric bicycles.
35.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
36.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
37.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
38.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals; unlawful
possession; traffic signal preemption devices.
39.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited; vehicle
damage only; removal of vehicles.
40.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid; leaving scene of personal injury
accident.
41.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
42.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
43.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
44.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
45.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while driving;
text-messaging.
46.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
47.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
48.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
49.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
50.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles, drivers.
51.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles, passengers.
52.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
53.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
54.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
55.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
56.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
57.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
58.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
59.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
60.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
61.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
62.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
63.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
64.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
65.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
66.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
67.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
68.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
69.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
70.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
71.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
72.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
73.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
74.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
75.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
76.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
77.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
78.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
79.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
80.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
81.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
82.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
83.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
84.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
85.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
86.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
87.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
88.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
89.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
90.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
91.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
92.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
93.   Section 321.364 – Preventing contamination of food by hazardous material.
94.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
95.   Section 321.366 – Acts prohibited on fully-controlled access facilities.
96.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
97.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
98.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
99.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
100.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
101.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils, stopping requirements; penalties.
102.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
103.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
104.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
105.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
106.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
107.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
108.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
109.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
110.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
111.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
112.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
113.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
114.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
115.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
116.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
117.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
118.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
119.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
120.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
121.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
122.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
123.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
124.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
125.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
126.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
127.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
128.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
129.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
130.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
131.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front, rear lights.
132.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
133.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
134.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
135.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
136.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, and bells prohibited.
137.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
138.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
139.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
140.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
141.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
142.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
143.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
144.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
145.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
146.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
147.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
148.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
149.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
150.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while operating a
commercial motor vehicle.
151.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
152.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
153.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
154.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
155.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
156.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
157.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
158.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
159.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
160.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight; exceptions, penalties.
161.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
162.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
The Police Chief shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a
play street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
62.07   MILLING.
It is unlawful to drive or operate a vehicle, either singly or with others, in
any processional milling or repeated movement over any street to the
interference with normal traffic use, or to the annoyance or offense of any
person.
62.08   LOUD STEREO OR RADIO.
No person shall operate any stereo (stereo, tape player, CD player, DVD player,
or radio) within a vehicle in a public place at a noise level that can be heard
at a distance of 50 feet from the stereo.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                             63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits             63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots 63.06 Controlled Access Facilities
 
63.01   GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
1.   Business District – 20 miles per hour.
2.   Residence or School District – 25 miles per hour.
3.   Suburban District – 45 miles per hour.
63.03   PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
A speed in excess of 15 miles per hour in any public park, cemetery, or parking
lot, unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
1.   Special 10 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 10 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   All alleys.
2.   Special 15 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 15 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   Reimer Street SW.
   B.   Woodland Drive NW.
   C.   Timber Court NW.
   D.   First Street NW, from Spruce Street to Willow Street.
   E.   Main Street NW, from Spruce Street to Willow Street.
   F.   Davis Street.
   G.   Pine Street, from Main Street to Second Street NW.
3.   Special 30 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 30 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   First Street SW, from Mulberry Street SW to Mechanic Street SW.
   B.   Second Street NW, from West Bridge Street to Pine Street NW.
   C.   Humphrey Street NE.
   D.   Miller Street NE.
   E.   Johnson Street NE.
4.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 35 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   Strawberry Point Road SW, from First Street SW to Station Number
727+50.
   B.   Second Street NW, from Pine Street NW to 708 Second Street NW.
   C.   High Street NE, from a spot 312 feet southwest of Johnson Street NE to
State Highway 13.
   D.   Gunder Road NE, from High Street NE to Station Number 16+70.
5.   Special 55 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 55 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   Highway 13 within the City limits.
   B.   Gunder Road within the City limits.
63.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
63.06   CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
Speed limits on controlled access facilities are as specified in
Chapter 140 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Left Turn for Parking
64.02 U-Turns
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half
of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street shall
be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way street shall be
made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street being entered upon
leaving the intersection.
The Police Chief may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions
require, that a different course from that specified above be traveled by
vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so
placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
64.02   U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the Business District at intersections
where there are automatic traffic signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
64.03   LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
No person shall make a left hand turn, crossing the centerline of the street,
for the purpose of parking on said street. No person shall back from parking
space and in so doing, cross the centerline of the street in order to proceed
in the opposite direction from which the person was parked.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Stop Required                65.05 School Stops
65.02 Three-Way Stop Intersections 65.06 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.03 Four-Way Stop Intersections  65.07 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.04 Yield Required               65.08 Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks
 
65.01   STOP REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Second Street NE.
Vehicles traveling southeast on Second Street NE shall stop at East Bridge
Street.
2.   Third Street NE.
Vehicles traveling southeast on Third Street NE shall stop at East Bridge
Street.
3.   Fourth Street NE.
Vehicles traveling southeast on Fourth Street NE shall stop at East Bridge
Street.
4.   Fifth Street NE.
Vehicles traveling southeast on Fifth Street NE shall stop at East Bridge
Street.
5.   Grape Road NE.
Vehicles traveling west on Grape Road NE shall stop at State Highway 13.
6.   Gunder Road NE.
Vehicles traveling south on Gunder Road NE shall stop at High Street NE.
7.   High Street NE.
Vehicles traveling east on High Street NE shall stop at State Highway 13.
8.   High Street NE.
Vehicles traveling southeast on High Street NE shall stop at East Bridge
Street.
9.   Humphrey Street NE.
Vehicles traveling east on Humphrey Street NE shall stop at Johnson Street NE.
10.   Humphrey Street NE.
Vehicles traveling west on Humphrey Street NE shall stop at Johnson Street NE.
11.   Johnson Street NE.
Vehicles traveling south on Johnson Street NE shall stop at High Street NE.
12.   Kristine Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling east on Kristine Avenue NE shall stop at State Highway 13.
13.   Mathew Avenue NE.
Vehicles traveling north on Mathew Avenue NE shall stop at Kristine Avenue.
14.   Miller Street NE.
Vehicles traveling west on Miller Street NE shall stop at Johnson Street NE and
Gunder Road NE.
15.   Miller Street NE.
Vehicles traveling east on Miller Street NE shall stop at Johnson Street NE.
16.   Oak Street NE.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Oak Street NE shall stop at Third Street NE.
17.   Oak Street NE.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Oak Street NE shall stop at Third Street NE.
18.   Plum Street NE.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Plum Street NE shall stop at Second Street NE,
Third Street NE and Fourth Street NE.
19.   Plum Street NE.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Plum Street NE shall stop at Fourth Street NE,
Third Street NE, Second Street NE and High Street NE.
20.   Poplar Street NE.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Poplar Street NE shall stop at Third Street NE.
21.   Poplar Street NE.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Poplar Street NE shall stop at Second Street
NE.
22.   Rainbow Drive NE.
Vehicles traveling southeast on Rainbow Drive NE shall stop at High Street NE.
23.   Sandpit Road NE.
Vehicles traveling southeast on Sandpit Road NE shall stop at High Street NE.
24.   Tara Lane NE.
Vehicles traveling east on Tara Lane NE shall stop at Gunder Road NE.
25.   First Street NW.
Vehicles traveling southeast on First Street NW shall stop at Carter Street NW
and West Bridge Street.
26.   Cedar Street NW.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Cedar Street NW shall stop at Second Street NW
and First Street NW.
27.   Cedar Street NW.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Cedar Street NW shall stop at First Street NW
and Second Street NW.
28.   Davidson Street NW.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Davidson Street NW shall stop at Carter Street
NW.
29.   Davis Street NW.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Davis Street NW shall stop at First Street NW
and North Main Street.
30.   Hill Street NW.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Hill Street NW shall stop at First Street NW.
31.   Maple Street NW.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Maple Street NW shall stop at North Main
Street.
32.   Maple Street NW.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Maple Street NW shall stop at First Street NW.
33.   McKinley Street NW.
Vehicles traveling northeast on McKinley Street NW shall stop at North Main
Street.
34.   McKinley Street NW.
Vehicles traveling southwest on McKinley Street NW shall stop at First Street
NW.
35.   Pine Street NW.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Pine Street NW shall stop at First Street NW
and Second Street NW.
36.   Spring Street NW.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Spring Street NW shall stop at North Main
Street and First Street NW.
37.   Spring Street NW.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Spring Street NW shall stop at North Main
Street.
38.   Spruce Street NW.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Spruce Street NW shall stop at Second Street
NW, First Street NW and North Main Street.
39.   Spruce Street NW.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Spruce Street NW shall stop at First Street NW
and Second Street NW.
40.   Willow Street NW.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Willow Street NW shall stop at North Main
Street.
41.   Willow Street NW.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Willow Street NW shall stop at First Street NW.
42.   Woodland Drive NW.
Vehicles traveling south on Woodland Drive NW shall stop at Second Street NW.
43.   Second Street SE.
Vehicles traveling northwest on Second Street SE shall stop at East Bridge
Street.
44.   Second Street SE.
Vehicles traveling southeast on Second Street SE shall stop at Chestnut Street
SE.
45.   Third Street SE.
Vehicles traveling northwest on Third Street SE shall stop at East Bridge
Street.
46.   Third Street SE.
Vehicles traveling southeast on Third Street SE shall stop at Chestnut Street
SE.
47.   Fourth Street SE.
Vehicles traveling northwest on Fourth Street SE shall stop at East Bridge
Street.
48.   Fourth Street SE.
Vehicles traveling southeast on Fourth Street SE shall stop at Chestnut Street
SE.
49.   Fifth Street SE.
Vehicles traveling northwest on Fifth Street SE shall stop at East Bridge
Street.
50.   Chestnut Street SE.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Chestnut Street SE shall stop at High Street
SE.
51.   High Street SE.
Vehicles traveling south on High Street SE shall stop at State Highway 13.
52.   Mascara Road SE.
Vehicles traveling west on Mascara Road SE shall stop at High Street SE.
53.   Roberts Road SE.
Vehicles traveling west on Roberts Road SE shall stop at High Street SE.
54.   First Street SW.
Vehicles traveling northwest on First Street SW shall stop at West Bridge
Street.
55.   Second Street SW.
Vehicles traveling northwest on Second Street SW shall stop at West Bridge
Street.
56.   Second Street SW.
Vehicles traveling southeast on Second Street SW shall stop at Strawberry Point
Road SW.
57.   Boardman Street SW.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Boardman Street SW shall stop at First Street
SW and South Main Street.
58.   Boardman Street SW.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Boardman Street SW shall stop at First Street
SW and Second Street SW.
59.   Mechanic Street SW.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Mechanic Street SW shall stop at First Street
SW and South Main Street.
60.   Mulberry Street SW.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Mulberry Street SW shall stop at South Main
Street.
61.   Mulberry Street SW.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Mulberry Street SW shall stop at First Street
SW and South Main Street.
62.   Oak Avenue SW.
Vehicles traveling northwest on Oak Avenue SW shall stop at Mulberry Street SW.
63.   Oak Avenue SW.
Vehicles traveling southeast on Oak Avenue SW shall stop at Mulberry Street SW.
64.   Old Volga Road SW.
Vehicles traveling northeast on Old Volga Road SW shall stop at Strawberry
Point Road SW.
65.   Reimer Street SW.
Vehicles traveling east on Reimer Street SW shall stop at Strawberry Point Road
SW.
66.   East Bridge Street. Vehicles traveling east on East Bridge Street shall
stop at State Highway 13.
67.   East Bridge Street. Vehicles traveling southwest on East Bridge Street
shall stop at High Street and Main Street.
68.   West Bridge Street. Vehicles traveling northeast on West Bridge Street
shall stop at First Street and Main Street.
69.   High Street SE.
Vehicles traveling on High Street SE shall stop at Mascara Road SE when the
temporary stop sign is in place during pool hours.
65.02   THREE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
The following intersections are designated three-way stop intersections:
1.   East Bridge Street and High Street. Vehicles approaching the intersection
of East Bridge Street and High Street from the northwest, southwest, and
southeast shall stop before entering such intersection.
2.   Cedar Street NW and North Main Street. Vehicles approaching the
intersection of Cedar Street NW and North Main Street from the northwest,
southwest, and southeast shall stop before entering such intersection.
65.03   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Intersection of West Bridge Street and Main Street.
2.   Intersection of Second Street SW and Mulberry Street SW.
3.   Intersection of Carter Street NW, Havens Drive NW and Davidson Street NW.
4.   Intersection of West Bridge Street and First Street.
65.04   YIELD REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   West Bridge Street. Vehicles traveling southwest on West Bridge Street
shall yield at Oak Avenue.
2.   Cedar Street NW.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Cedar Street NW shall yield at Oak Avenue NW.
3.   Spruce Street NW.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Spruce Street NW shall yield at Oak Avenue NW.
4.   Pine Street NW.
Vehicles traveling southwest on Pine Street NW shall yield at Oak Avenue NW.
5.   Second Street SW.
Vehicles traveling northerly on Second Street SW shall yield at Mechanic Street
SW.
65.05   SCHOOL STOPS.
At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
1.   Intersection of North Main Street and Pine Street NW.
2.   Intersection of North Main Street and Davis Street NW.
3.   Intersection of First Street NW and Pine Street NW.
4.   Intersection of First Street NW and Davis Street NW.
65.06   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.07   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.08   YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or
within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.05 Truck Routes
66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 and 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The Police Chief may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a
special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 321E)
66.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 475)
- NONE -
66.04   LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
Where there has been a finding that a City bridge does not meet established
standards set forth by state and federal authorities, the City may impose
weight limitations for an indefinite period of time on the weight of vehicles
upon bridges located within the City; in which event the Police Chief may cause
to be posted and maintained signs on said bridge and at suitable distances
ahead of the entrances thereof to warn drivers of such maximum load limits, and
no person shall drive a vehicle upon said bridge weighing, loaded or unloaded,
in excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471).
1.   The City Council in passing this ordinance finds the Bridge Street Bridge
does not meet such established standards and the maximum allowable weight on
the Bridge Street Bridge shall be five tons.
2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction or a guilty
plea, be subject to a fine determined in accordance with Iowa Code Section
321.471(2)(b).
3.   The City may determine the weight of the vehicle by the weight stated on
the vehicle registration, by weighing the vehicle, or by any other competent
means.
4.   This chapter shall not apply to Fire Department vehicles or equipment or
ambulances responding to an emergency, or vehicles or equipment owned by the
City, County or State that are engaged in maintenance activities, snow/ice
removal efforts, or storm/natural disaster clean-up efforts.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
66.05   TRUCK ROUTES.
Truck route regulations are established as follows:
1.   Truck Routes Designated. Every motor vehicle weighing five tons or more,
when loaded or empty, having no fixed terminal within the City or making no
scheduled or definite stops within the City for the purpose of loading or
unloading shall travel over or upon the following streets within the City and
none other:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   A.   From City limits on Second Street NW, southerly to West Bridge Street,
on West Bridge Street to First Street SW, on First Street SW to Strawberry
Point Road, thence southerly to State HWY 13.
   B.   High Street NE and High Street SE in their entirety.
2.   Deliveries Off Truck Route. Any motor vehicle weighing five tons or more,
when loaded or empty, having a fixed terminal, making a scheduled or definite
stop within the City for the purpose of loading or unloading shall proceed over
or upon the designated routes set out in this section to the nearest point of
its scheduled or definite stop and shall proceed thereto, load or unload, and
return by the most direct route to its point of departure from said designated
route.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
3.   Employer’s Responsibility. The owner or any other person employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle shall not require or knowingly
permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to
this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
4.   Any person who violates this section shall, upon conviction or a guilty
plea, be subject to a fine of $250 for the first offense and $500 for the
second offense.
5.   The City may determine the weight of the vehicle by the weight stated on
the vehicle registration, by weighing the vehicle, or by any other competent
means.
6.   This chapter shall not apply to Fire Department vehicles or equipment or
ambulances responding to an emergency, or vehicles or equipment owned by the
City, County or State that are engaged in maintenance activities, snow/ice
removal efforts, or storm/natural disaster clean-up efforts.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
(Section 66.05 – Ord. 2023-12 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking       67.04 Use of Sidewalks
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
67.04   USE OF SIDEWALKS.
Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent street.
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
1.   Davis Street NW.
On Davis Street NW from Second Street NW to North Main Street, the vehicular
traffic shall move only in an easterly direction.
2.   Pine Street NW.
On Pine Street NW from North Main Street to Second Street NW, the vehicular
traffic shall move only in a westerly direction.
3.   Alley. On the alley between North Main Street and First Street NW, between
Cedar Street NW and Mulberry Street SW, vehicular traffic shall move only in a
southerly direction.
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb             69.10 Parking Limited to 15 Minutes
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets        69.11 Parking Limited to 30 Minutes
69.03 Angle Parking                     69.12 Snow Emergency Parking
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking           69.13 Street Cleaning – No Parking
                                        Zones
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes      69.14 Controlled Access Facilities
Illegal
69.06 Parking Prohibited                69.15 Trailer Parking and Use
69.07 Persons with Disabilities Parking 69.16 Truck Parking Limited
69.08 Municipal Parking Lots            69.17 Penalty
69.09 No Parking Zones
 
69.01   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   ANGLE PARKING.
Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
1.    Cedar Street NW on the northwest side, from North Main Street to Second
Street NW.
2.   Main Street on the westerly side, from Mechanic Street SW to Spruce Street
NW.
3.   Main Street on the easterly side, from Mulberry Street SW to Cedar Street
NW.
4.   West Bridge Street on the northwest side, from Main Street to First
Street.
5.   Third Street NE on the southwest side, from Poplar Street NE to Oak Street
NE.
6.   Mulberry Street SW on the northwest side, from the Turkey River to South
Main Street.
7.   Pine Street NW on the northerly side, from North Main Street to First
Street NW.
69.04   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load thereon, when
said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into
the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to
the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 48 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a duly
established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code of
Ordinances.
69.06   PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an intersection
of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
9.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
10.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction
when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
11.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at
the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
12.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
13.   Churches, Nursing Homes, and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
14.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the width
of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
15.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
16.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line. That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
17.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any part
of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.07   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval. Parking spaces for persons with disabilities are established
at the following locations:
   A.   The first space in the southeast corner of the parking lot north of the
Opera House, adjacent the building.
   B.   On the easterly side of North Main Street, the first space north of the
stop sign at the intersection of North Main Street and Cedar Street NW.
   C.   On the southerly side of Cedar Street NW, the third space west of the
intersection of North Main Street and Cedar Street NW.
   D.   On the westerly side of North Main Street, the first space north of the
intersection of Main Street and Bridge Street.
   E.   On the easterly side of South Main Street, the first space south of the
intersection of Bridge Street and Main Street.
   F.   On the southerly side of West Bridge Street, the fifth space west of
the intersection of Main Street and Bridge Street.
   G.   On the northerly side of Mulberry Street SW, the first space east of
the intersection of Mulberry Street SW and South Main Street.
   H.   On the westerly side of South Main Street, the fourth space south of
the intersection of Mulberry Street SW and South Main Street.
   I.   (Repealed by Ordinance No. 2023-13 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
   J.   On the northerly side of Spruce Street NW, the three spaces west of the
intersection of North Main and Spruce Street NW, at the side of 301 North Main
Street to the alley.
(Paragraph J – Ord. 2022-04 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
   K.   On the westerly side of Third Street NE, the fourth space south of the
intersection of Oak Street NE and Third Street NE in front of 307 Third Street
NE.
   L.   On the easterly side of High Street SE, south of the intersection of
Chestnut Street SE and High Street SE, at the side of 200 Chestnut Street SE.
   M.   (Repealed by Ordinance No. 2023-08 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
   N.   Around Central Community School Buildings:
      (1)   By the kindergarten building located at 201 Davis Street NW, in the
alley (the alley between First Street NW and Second Street NW from Pine Street
NW to Davis Street NW) one space on the westerly side of the alley immediately
adjacent to the school building, the first space from Davis Street NW.
      (2)   The area on Davis Street NW between 1st Street NW and N. Main
Street from 1st Street NW to the alley on the northerly side.
(Subsection 1 – Ord. 2023-13 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
   A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
   B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with disabilities
parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or being
transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
   C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section 321L.8
of the Code of Iowa.
3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
   A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must comply
with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when utilizing
a wheelchair parking cone.
   B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08   MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS.
Any vehicle left in a municipal parking lot unmoved for seven consecutive days
or more will be ticketed and considered abandoned in accordance with
Chapter 80 of this Code of Ordinances. No truck tractor or semitrailer, and no
trailer detached from its towing vehicle, including but not limited to a
detached travel trailer, boat trailer, or utility trailer, may be parked in a
municipal parking lot for any period of time. This provision shall not apply to
government-owned vehicles, truck tractors or trailers, or vehicles, truck
tractors, or trailers used in the performance of a contract with the City.
Permission may be granted by the City to allow truck tractors or semitrailers,
trailers detached from towing vehicles, including but not limited to a detached
travel trailer, boat trailer, or utility trailer, to be parked in a municipal
parking lot if it is related to construction activities on private property and
parking in a municipal lot provides an alternative to parking on the street.
69.09   NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following specifically
designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer or traffic
control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Within the alleys in Blocks 3, 4, and 5 (the alley between First Street NW
and Second Street NW from Spruce Street NW to Mulberry Street NW) and the alley
between First Street NW and Second Street NW between Pine Street NW and Davis
Street NW, except for loading and unloading.
2.   Second Street NE on the northeast side, from East Bridge Street to Oak
Street NE.
3.   Third Street NE on the northeast side, from East Bridge Street to Oak
Street NE.
4.   Fourth Street NE on the northeast side, from East Bridge Street to Poplar
Street NE.
5.   Gunder Road NE on both sides, from High Street NE to the City limits.
6.   High Street NE on both sides, from East Bridge Street to State Highway 13,
except for 15-minute parking zones in front of the courthouse.
7.   Maxie Street NE on the northwest side.
8.   Oak Street NE on the southeast side, from Third Street NE to Kristine
Avenue NE.
9.   Plum Street NE on the southeast side, from High Street NE to Second Street
NE.
10.   Poplar Street NE on the northwest side, from Third Street NE to Fourth
Street NE.
11.   First Street NW on the easterly side, from Spruce Street NW to Carter
Street NW.
12.   First Street NW on both sides, from Cedar Street NW to Spruce Street NW,
and First Street NW on the easterly side, 38 feet from the intersection of
Cedar Street NW.
13.   Second Street NW on the easterly side, from West Bridge Street to a spot
256 feet northwest of Davis Street NW.
14.   Second Street NW on the westerly side, from West Bridge Street to mile
marker 23.
15.   Carter Street NW on the northerly side, from First Street NW to the City
limits.
16.   Davidson Street on the northeast side.
17.   Davis Street NW on the southeast side, from First Street NW to North Main
Street.
18.   Davis Street NW on the northwest side, from Second Street NW to First
Street NW.
19.   Pine Street NW on the southeast side, from First Street NW to Second
Street NW.
20.   Spring Street NW on the southeast side, from First Street NW to Second
Street NW.
21.   Willow Street NW on the southeast side, from First Street NW to Second
Street NW.
22.   Second Street SE on the northeast side, from Chestnut Street SE to East
Bridge Street.
23.   Third Street SE on the northeast side, from Chestnut Street SE to East
Bridge Street.
24.   Fourth Street SE on the northeast side, from Chestnut Street SE to East
Bridge Street.
25.   Chestnut Street SE on the northwest side, from Fourth Street SE to Fifth
Street SE.
26.   High Street SE on both sides, from State Highway 13 to a point 163 feet
from the intersection of High Street SE and Chestnut Street SE, measured in a
southeasterly direction.
27.   First Street SW on both sides, from Mechanic Street SW to Mulberry Street
SW.
28.   Second Street SW on the northeast side, from Mechanic Street SW to West
Bridge Street.
29.   Mulberry Street SW on the northwest side, from First Street SW to Second
Street SW.
30.   Mulberry Street SW on the southeast side, from Oak Avenue SW to Second
Street SW.
31.   Mulberry Street on the southwest side, from the Turkey River to South
Main Street.
32.   Strawberry Point Road SW on both sides, to the City limits.
33.   East Bridge Street on the southeast side, from High Street to State
Highway 13.
34.   West Bridge Street on both sides, from First Street SW to Second Street
SW.
35.   Boardman Street SW on the southeast side, from South Main Street to First
Street SW.
36.   North Main Street on the westerly side, from Spruce Street NW to Davis
Street NW from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on school days.
37.   Pine Street NW on the southerly side, from North Main Street to First
Street NW.
38.   Spruce Street NW on the northwesterly side, from First Street NW to Oak
Avenue NW.
69.10   PARKING LIMITED TO 15 MINUTES.
It is unlawful to park any vehicle for a continuous period of more than 15
minutes upon the following designated streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   High Street NE in front of the courthouse.
2.   First Street NW on the easterly side in front of Central Community
Schools; and on the westerly side in front of Central Community Schools from 8:
00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on school days.
3.   Davis Street NW on the southerly side in front of the Central Community
School building located at 201 Davis Street NE, from the alley (the alley
between First Street NW and Second Street NW) to Second Street NW, on school
days between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
69.11   PARKING LIMITED TO 30 MINUTES.
It is unlawful to park any vehicle for a continuous period of more than 30
minutes upon the following designated streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Mulberry Street, in front of the post office.
2.   North Main Street, in front of the library (130 N. Main Street) – with the
following restrictions: 30-minute parking Monday through Friday between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
69.12   SNOW EMERGENCY PARKING.
The purpose of this section is to improve public safety during times when
significant amounts of snow or ice accumulate on or are expected to accumulate
on City streets.
1.   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following are defined:
   A.   “Business District” shall have the same meaning set forth in Section
60.02(1) of this Code of Ordinances.
   B.   “Park” or “Parking” shall have the same meaning set forth in Section
60.02(3) of this Code of Ordinances.
   C.   “Mayor,” for purposes of this section, shall include, but shall not be
limited to, designees such as the City Administrator/Clerk, Public Works
Director, or Chief of Police.
   D.   “Vehicle” shall have the same meaning set forth in Section
60.02(12) of this Code of Ordinances.
2.   Declared Snow Emergencies.
   A.   The Mayor may declare a snow emergency any time the Mayor, in his sole
discretion, determines the declaration of a snow emergency is necessary or
desirable for purposes of facilitating the maintenance of public streets or
preserving public health, safety, and welfare.
   B.   The Mayor may declare a snow emergency based upon actual or predicted
snow, sleet, freezing rain, or ice.
3.   Public Notification. The Mayor, upon declaring a snow emergency, shall
utilize, at his discretion, all available communications media in the community
to give notice to the public that a snow emergency is in effect, but failure of
a person to receive such notice shall not constitute a defense to any
prosecution for violation of the rules, regulations, and procedures prescribed
by this chapter if snow has accumulated on any portion of the paved roadway.
4.   Effective Times of Emergency.
   A.   A snow emergency shall commence immediately upon its declaration and
shall last for 24 hours from the effective start time, unless otherwise
indicated by the Mayor.
   B.   In no event shall the parking restrictions set forth in this section be
enforced until two hours following the provision of notice to local media
outlets as herein required.
5.   Restrictions During Snow Emergency.
   A.   In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this section and
any other section or provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provisions of
this section shall control.
   B.   During a snow emergency no vehicle shall be parked on any City street.
   C.   During the effective period of a declared snow emergency, the
identified portions of the following streets shall be shut down and made
inaccessible for vehicle parking:
      (1)   Main Street (all portions within Business District).
      (2)   Mulberry Street (all portions within Business District).
      (3)   Bridge Street (all portions within Business District).
      (4)   Cedar Street (all portions within Business District).
      (5)   Spruce Street (all portions within Business District).
      (6)   First Street (between Bridge Street and Cedar Street NW).
6.   Towing and Impounding of Illegally Parked Vehicles. During a snow
emergency, members of the Police Department are authorized to tow and impound
any vehicle parked on a City street in violation of this section. When such
vehicle is reclaimed by its owner, there shall be assessed to said owner, in
addition to any court-imposed fine and costs, a reasonable fee for towing and
storage. Neither the City nor its employees or agents designated to move
vehicles in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be responsible
for any damage to such vehicle occasioned by such moving, towing, or storage.
Any person who removes an impounded vehicle from any police-designated
impounding area without first paying all fines, costs, towing, and storage
charges, is guilty of a municipal infraction.
7.   Violations and Penalties. In addition to or in lieu of having the vehicle
towed, the owner of the vehicle or the person otherwise entitled to possession
thereof found to be in violation of this section may be ticketed pursuant to
the provisions of Section
70.03 of this Code of Ordinances. Each two-hour period a vehicle remains parked
in violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense. The ticket shall be placed on a conspicuous place on the
offending vehicle or presented to the owner or operator of the vehicle, if that
person is available.
8.   Termination of Snow Emergency Parking Restrictions. Whenever the Mayor
shall find that the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
declaration no longer exist, the Mayor is authorized to declare the termination
of the snow emergency parking restrictions set forth above, in whole or in
part, effective immediately upon announcement. When the termination is
announced, it shall then be lawful to park on those streets in accordance with
the regular parking provisions. The Mayor shall request the cooperation of the
local press, radio, and television media to announce the termination of the
snow emergency parking restrictions.
9.   Parking Restrictions During Snowfall Where No Snow Emergency Declared. In
the event no snow emergency is declared, no person shall park, abandon, or
leave unattended any vehicles on any public street, alley, or City-owned or
operated off-street parking area between 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. if snow has
accumulated on any portion of the paved roadway.
69.13   STREET CLEANING – NO PARKING ZONES.
In order to remove all vehicles and other obstructions from the streets in
order to facilitate the cleaning of the same, no parking is allowed on certain
sides of certain streets between the hours of 2:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. on each
Friday and Monday as designated below:
1.   On the Monday hours as set forth above, parking is prohibited as follows:
   A.   The northerly side of Bridge Street, from High Street to First Street.
   B.   The westerly side of Main Street, from Boardman Street SW to Pine
Street NW.
   C.   The westerly side of First Street, from Pine Street NW to Mulberry
Street SW.
   D.   The northerly side of Cedar Street NW, from North Main Street to Second
Street NW.
   E.   The northerly side of Mulberry Street SW, from the Turkey River to
First Street SW.
2.   On the Friday hours as set forth above, parking is prohibited as follows:
   A.   The southerly side of Bridge Street, from High Street to First Street.
   B.   The easterly side of Main Street, from Boardman Street SW to Pine
Street NW.
   C.   The southerly side of Cedar Street NW, from North Main Street to Second
Street NW.
   D.   The easterly side of First Street, from Pine Street NW to Mulberry
Street SW.
   E.   The southerly side of Mulberry Street SW, from the Turkey River to
First Street SW.
69.14   CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
Parking restrictions on controlled access facilities are as specified in
Chapter 140 of this Code of Ordinances.
69.15   TRAILER PARKING AND USE.
No trailer detached from its towing vehicle, including but not limited to a
semitrailer, travel trailer, boat trailer, or utility trailer, may be parked on
any public right-of-way, including but not limited to public streets and any
area adjacent to public streets and dedicated to public use, such as utility
easement or sidewalk. It is also unlawful to occupy a recreational vehicle or a
travel trailer as a dwelling or sleeping quarters for any period of time,
whether detached from its towing vehicle or otherwise, while it is parked on
any public right-of-way or municipal parking lot.
69.16   TRUCK PARKING LIMITED.
No person shall park a motor truck, truck trailer, or other motor vehicle with
or without a trailer attached in violation of the following regulations. The
provisions of this section shall only apply to pick-up, light delivery, or
panel delivery trucks while engaged in the delivery or receiving of merchandise
or cargo or construction activities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Deliveries. Except only when such vehicles are actively engaged in the
delivery or receiving of merchandise or cargo, no person shall park or leave
unattended such vehicle on any public right-of-way, including not only public
streets, but also any area adjacent thereto dedicated to public use, such as a
utility easement or sidewalk. When actively receiving or delivering merchandise
or cargo such vehicle shall be stopped or parked in a manner which will not
interfere with other traffic.
2.   Construction Activities. Excepting only when such vehicles or trailers are
actually actively engaged in construction activities and off-street parking is
not available, no person shall park or leave unattended such vehicle on any
public right-of-way including, but not limited to public streets and any area
adjacent to public streets and dedicated to public use, such as a utility
easement or sidewalk. When actively engaged in construction activities, such
vehicle shall be stopped or parked in a manner which will not interfere with
other traffic and shall be secured in a safe manner. No such vehicles shall be
parked in the Business District beginning sun-down Friday evening until sun-up
Monday morning whether actively engaged in construction activities or
otherwise.
3.   Noise. No vehicle shall be left standing or parked upon any public right-
of-way, including, but not limited to public streets and any area adjacent to
public streets and dedicated to public use, such as a utility easement or
sidewalk, municipal or private parking lot, or drive of any service station
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. with the engine, auxiliary
engine, air compressor, refrigerating equipment, or other device in operation
giving off audible sounds unless actively being serviced in the drive of a
service station, and then in no event for more than 30 minutes.
4.   Livestock. No such vehicle containing livestock shall be parked on any
public right-of-way, including, but not limited to public streets and any area
adjacent public streets and dedicated to public use, such as a utility easement
or sidewalk for a period of time of more than 30 minutes.
69.17   PENALTY.
Any vehicle in violation of this chapter may be towed at the owner’s expense.
The City shall not be liable for any damages incurred by said towing. In
addition, a violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine as stated
in section
70.03.
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate a
combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner of
Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of the
Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of those
violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
70.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
office of the City Administrator/Clerk in the amount of $20.00 for all
violations except as otherwise provided herein. If such fine is not paid within
30 days, it shall be increased by $5.00. For violations of the following
parking restrictions, the simple notice of fine shall be:
1.   Snow Emergency Parking - $30.00 (plus any and all towing and/or impound
fees imposed in accordance with Section
69.12 of this Code of Ordinance.)
2.   Improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit - $100.00
If a parking violation is not paid within 60 days of the date upon which the
violation occurred, the City may charge the owner of the vehicle, or the person
otherwise entitled to possession thereof, and proceed before a court in the
same manner as other traffic violations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b] and 321L.4[2])
70.04   PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information was
parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot, or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
3.   Snow Removal/Snow Emergencies. When any vehicle is left parked in
violation of a ban on parking during snow removal operations, including but not
limited to vehicles parked in violation of Section
69.12 of this Code of Ordinances.
4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can be
located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or driver
of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, OFF-ROAD UTILITY VEHICLES, AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                  75.05 Operation of Snowmobiles on City Streets
75.02 Definitions              75.06 Operation of ATVs and UTVs
75.03 General Regulations      75.07 Negligence
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles 75.08 Accident Reports
 
75.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat or
saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” or “UTV” means a motorized vehicle, with not
less than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks,
that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled
by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road
utility vehicle” or “UTV” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” includes vehicles with a total dry
weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
   B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” includes vehicles, other than Type
1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of 65
inches or less.
   C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” includes vehicles with a total dry
weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or both.
An operator of an UTV is also subject to the provisions of this chapter
governing the operation of ATVs.
(Subsection 3 – Ord. 2022-06 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000 pounds,
that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a width of 48
inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and is designed
for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-terrain vehicle
that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type tracks, or
treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle, or UTV within the City in
violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a snowmobile within the City
in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of the Code of Iowa or in
violation of rules established by the Natural Resource Commission of the
Department of Natural Resources governing their registration, equipment, and
manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G and Ch. 321I)
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or who fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the
following Iowa statutory laws relating to operation of snowmobiles is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
1.   Section 321G.3   Residential registration/non-resident registration user
permit required
2.   Section 321G.5   Display of identification number
3.   Section 321G.9   Improper operation on roadways/highways
4.   Section 321G.11   Mufflers
5.   Section 321G.12   Lights and brakes required
6.   Section 321G.13(1a)   Operate at rate of speed greater than reasonable/
proper
7.   Section 321G.13(1b)   Operate in a careless/reckless/negligent manner
8.   Section 321G.13(1d)   Lights
9.   Section 321G.13(1e)   Operate in a tree nursery or planting damaging
growing stock
10.   Section 321G.13(1f)   Operate on public land/ice/snow in violation of
official signs
11.   Section 321G.13(1g)   Operate in prohibited park/wildlife areas /
preserves / streambeds
12.   Section 321G.13(1h2)   Operate or ride with a loaded or uncased firearm
13.   Section 321G.13(1h3)   Operate snowmobile on public land without
measurable snow cover
14.   Section 321G.17   Violation of stop signal
15.   Section 321G.19   Rented snowmobiles
16.   Section 321G.20   Operations by persons under 16 years of age or allowing
operation by persons under 16 years of age
17.   Section 321G.21   Violation by manufacturer/distributor/dealer
18.   Section 321G.24(1)   Safety certificate violation
75.04   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets which have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])
2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only under
the following circumstances:
   A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an emergency
during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the roadway
renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
   B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a prohibited
street provided all of the following occur:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
      (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
3.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4 g])
4.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any park,
playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express permission
of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land without a snow
cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
5.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
6.   Most Direct Route. Snowmobiles may be operated on such streets which
provide the shortest and most direct route from the premises of the operator to
a designated trail head.
75.05   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES ON CITY STREETS.
1.   No snowmobile shall be operated under any circumstances upon the property
of another person without the express consent of the owner of said property.
2.   All snowmobile operators shall be required to observe all traffic control
devices on public streets.
3.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a snowmobile to leave or
allow a snowmobile to remain unattended on public property while the motor is
running or with keys for starting the vehicle left in the ignition.
4.   All snowmobiles operating on City streets shall at all times have a
lighted headlight and taillight.
75.06   OPERATION OF ATVS AND UTVS.
The operators of ATVs and UTVs shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where ATVs and UTVs may be operated within the City:
1.   Streets. ATVs and UTVs may be operated on roadways or highways in
accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa. A City may regulate the
operation of registered ATVs and UTVs and may designate streets under the
jurisdiction of the City within its corporate limits, and two-lane primary and
secondary road extensions in the City, which may be used for the operation of
such vehicles. In designating such streets, the City may authorize ATVs and
UTVs to stop at service stations or convenience stores along a designated
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 and 3])
2.   Trails. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except
where designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
3.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated in any
park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City.
4.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
5.   Direct Crossing. An ATV or UTV may make a direct crossing of a highway
that is not part of the interstate road system provided all of the following
occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
   A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing.
   B.   The ATV or UTV is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
   C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
   D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
   E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway on which the
ATV or UTV is authorized to operate to a street, roadway, or highway on which
such vehicle is authorized to operate.
(Section 75.06 – Ord. 2022-06 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
75.07   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile are liable for any injury
or damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile.
The owner of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or
damage only if the owner was the operator of the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the
time the injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent
to operate the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage
occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 and 321I.19)
75.08   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in
injury or death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more,
either the operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify
a law enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 and 321I.11)
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.09 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.10 Towing
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.11 Improper Riding
76.04 Single File Riding              76.12 Parking
76.05 Bicycle Paths                   76.13 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Speed                           76.14 Special Penalty
76.07 Emerging From Alley or Driveway 76.15 Skateboarding
76.08 Carrying Articles
 
76.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or
upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to those provisions that by their nature can have no application. Whenever
such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be subject to all
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03   DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04   SINGLE FILE RIDING.
Bicycles shall be ridden single file in the Business District and upon
sidewalks in residential districts. Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway
shall not ride more than two abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway
shall be kept to the right and shall be operated as near as practicable to the
right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [10])
76.05   BICYCLE PATHS.
Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a roadway,
bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [10])
76.06   SPEED.
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07   EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08   CARRYING ARTICLES.
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article that
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09   RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
1.   Residential Districts. Bicycles may be operated upon the sidewalks in the
residential district, but not on sidewalks adjoining any school premises except
those permitted by local officials.
2.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within
the Business District, as defined in Section
60.02(1) of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
3.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
4.   Yield Right-of-Way. Pedestrians upon sidewalks have the right-of-way at
all times over persons using or operating bicycles upon any sidewalks, and any
person using or operating a bicycle upon any sidewalk shall turn off of said
sidewalk at any time when meeting or passing pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.10   TOWING.
It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any other
vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured for
such use.
76.11   IMPROPER RIDING.
No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.12   PARKING.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13   EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped
with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a distance of at
least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except that a red reflector on
the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet
to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a
motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.14   SPECIAL PENALTY.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second
offense, and 30 days for a third offense.
76.15   SKATEBOARDING.
It is unlawful for anyone to ride or use a skateboard upon any City street. It
is also unlawful for anyone to ride or use a skateboard upon any sidewalk
adjacent to the following streets:
1.   Main Street, from Spruce Street NW to Mulberry Street SW.
2.   First Street, from Mulberry Street SW to Spruce NW.
3.   Bridge Street, from First Street to High Street.
CHAPTER 77
BICYCLE LICENSING
 
77.01 License Required 77.03 Lost License Tags
77.02 License Transfer 77.04 Alteration Unlawful
 
77.01   LICENSE REQUIRED.
Every person living within the City who owns a bicycle shall cause the
ownership thereof to be registered at the office of the Police Department in
the City. Upon such registration and passage of an examination as to such
person’s knowledge of the law regulating the operation of bicycles in the City,
and payment of $3.00, the Police Department will issue a license tag or sticker
which thereafter shall be kept permanently attached to said bicycle. It is the
duty of all bicycle owners in the City, on or before April 1 of each year, to
register their bicycles with the Police Department and to secure an
identification tag or sticker and to pay the annual fee of $3.00. The Police
Department shall keep a book of registrations and issue identification tags or
stickers and account to the City Administrator/Clerk for all license fees
collected. The cost of all license tags or stickers shall be paid out of the
City treasury and from funds collected for registration fees so far as said
fund will permit. No such registration shall be made unless the bicycle is in
proper condition for safe operation.
77.02   LICENSE TRANSFER.
In the event that a licensed bicycle is sold or transferred, the license tag or
sticker shall pass to the new owner or transferee and the sale or transfer of
said bicycle shall be reported to the Police Department by the former owner
within five days after the sale or transfer of the bicycle, and the Police
Department shall make a record of said sale or transfer together with the name
of the new owner or transferee of said bicycle. In addition, every bicycle
dealer in the City shall file with the Police Department, on the first day of
each month, a report of all bicycles sold or transferred during the preceding
month.
77.03   LOST LICENSE TAGS.
In the event that an owner loses his license tag or sticker, or should the same
be destroyed or stolen, such owner shall report same immediately to the Police
Department, which shall then issue to such owner a new license tag or sticker
at a cost of 50 cents.
77.04   ALTERATION UNLAWFUL.
It is unlawful for any person to alter or counterfeit any license tag or
sticker issued in conformity with this chapter.
CHAPTER 78
GOLF CARTS
 
78.01 Operation of Golf Carts 78.02 Other Laws and Ordinances
 
78.01   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
1.   Golf carts may be operated on City streets by persons possessing a valid
driver’s license and proof that the golf cart owner has liability insurance
covering the golf cart in the same limits required of automobiles by Chapter
321 of the Code of Iowa.
2.   Persons operating golf carts on the City streets shall use turn signals
and brake lights to indicate turns and stopping.
3.   A golf cart shall not be operated upon Iowa HWY 56 Iowa HWY 13, or and
Clayton County HWY X16, but shall be allowed to cross those highways.
4.   The golf cart shall be equipped with adequate brakes, a slow moving
vehicle sign, and a bicycle safety flag, and shall be operated on the streets
only from sunrise to sunset and between the months of February and November.
5.   Golf carts operated on City streets need not be registered under Chapter
321 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
(Section 78.01 – Ord. 2022-07 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
78.02   OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
No provisions of this chapter should be construed to legalize or permit sounds,
devices, or activities made unlawful by State or federal statutes or this Code
of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [10])
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                       80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of   80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                      Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                    80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Reclamation of Abandoned Vehicles 80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] and Sec. 321.90)
1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
   A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
   B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more than
24 hours.
   C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private property
without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property for more
than 24 hours.
   D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
   E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority to
create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
   F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap, or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person in control of
private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to dispose
of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody the
abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
1.   A police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall send notice by certified mail that the vehicle has been taken
into custody, no more than 20 days after taking custody of the vehicle. Notice
shall be sent to the last known address of record of the last known registered
owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant
to the vehicle.
2.   Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice shall include all of
the following:
   A.   A description of the year, make, model and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle.
   B.   The location of the facility where the vehicle is being held.
   C.   Information for the persons receiving the notice of their right to
reclaim the vehicle and personal property contained therein within 10 days
after the effective date of the notice. Persons may reclaim the vehicle or
personal property upon payment of all towing, preservation, and storage charges
resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of
the notice required pursuant to this section.
   D.   A statement that failure of the owner, lienholders, or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders, and claimants
of all right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle or personal property.
   E.   A statement that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is
deemed consent for the police authority or private entity to sell the vehicle
at a public auction or dispose of the vehicle to a demolisher and to dispose of
the personal property by sale or destruction.
3.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity
without a police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the
private entity may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90,
Subsection 1, of the Code of Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the
vehicle.
4.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or
by a private entity hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that
any person claiming rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who
disputes the planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police
authority or private entity, or of the assessment of fees and charges provided
by this section, may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority
to contest those matters.
5.   If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing or exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the 10-day reclaiming
period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer have any right,
title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal property.
6.   A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right, title,
claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the expiration
of the 10-day reclaiming period.
7.   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identities
and addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Subsection 2 of this section. The published notice may contain multiple
listings of abandoned vehicles, but shall be published within the same time
requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed notice
in Subsection 2 of this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3])
80.04   RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
Prior to driving an abandoned vehicle away from the premises, a person who
received (or who is reclaiming the vehicle on behalf of a person who received)
notice under Section
80.03 shall present to the police authority or private entity, as applicable,
the person’s valid driver’s license and proof of financial liability coverage
as provided in Section 321.20B of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost, or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification required, in
accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner of the motor
vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited in the
State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize the
amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply for
reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Connection Permit Required; Bond 90.11 Boilers and Pressure Vessels
Required
90.02 Application for Permit           90.12 Right of Entry
90.03 Hookup Fee                       90.13 Special Terms of Use
90.04 Mandatory Connections            90.14 Service Interruptions
90.05 Service Outside the City         90.15 City Liability Limited
90.06 Abandoned Connections            90.16 Customer’s Liability
90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code    90.17 Use of Water Restricted
90.08 Tapping Mains                    90.18 Easements
90.09 Responsibility for Service Line  90.19 Line Extensions
90.10 Failure to Maintain              90.20 Service Refused
 
90.01   CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED; BOND REQUIRED.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or openings
into, use, alter, or disturb the waterworks or appurtenances thereof without
first obtaining a written permit. Before a permit is issued, the person
applying for such permit shall have executed unto the City and deposited at
City Hall a corporate surety bond in the minimum sum of $1,000.00, conditioned
that such person will perform faithfully all work with due care and skill, and
in accordance with the laws, rules, and regulations established under the
authority of any ordinances pertaining to plumbing, waterworks, or
appurtenances. The bond shall state that the person will indemnify and save
harmless the City and the owner of the premises against all damages, costs,
expenses, outlays, and claims of every nature and kind arising out of
unskillfulness or negligence on the part of such person in connection with
plumbing, waterworks, or appurtenances as prescribed herein. Such bond shall
remain in force and must be executed for a period of a minimum of one year,
except that on such expiration, it shall remain in force as to all penalties,
claims, and demands that may have accrued thereunder prior to such expiration.
In lieu of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $1,000.00 may be filed with the
City.
90.02   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
There are two classes of permit applications: one for residential service and
the second for commercial and industrial service. A property owner or duly
authorized agent of a property owner must make written application for water
service and file such written application with the City. The permit application
shall state the name and address of the property owner and the agent making the
application, the street address of the property to be served, the type, size,
and location of corporation stop, curb stop, and water service valve in the
building, average depth, and such other information as may be required by the
City. Work under any permit must be completed within 60 days after the permit
is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or unfair due to
conditions beyond the control of the person making the application, an
extension of time within which to complete the work may be granted. The permit
may be revoked at any time for any violation of these chapters.
90.03   HOOKUP FEE.
The City shall assess a one-time fee for the initial hookup of a water line to
offset line construction costs. Residential properties shall pay a $250.00 fee
for the initial connection and commercial or industrial properties shall pay a
$350.00 fee.
1.   Said hookup fee is due and payable to the City at the time the connection
permit is obtained.
2.   Special allowances will be made to this fee when a developer has paid for
the water main construction. In developments and subdivisions where a developer
has paid to install a water main, and where a water main was stubbed for
service lines into the development as part of the water main project, the above
connection fees may not be assessed.
3.   If the property to be connected to a City water line is outside of the
corporate limits, and for some reason is unable to be annexed into the
corporate limits, all fees will be doubled.
4.   All water mains and lines shall be constructed as to meet all requirements
of City ordinances or resolutions and State Code regulations and requirements.
90.04   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or structures used for human occupancy,
employment, or use, situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley,
or right-of-way in which there is located a public water main, are hereby
required to connect such facilities to the City’s public water system in
accordance with the provisions of these Water Service chapters within 60 days
after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said public water
main is located within 100 feet of the property line of such owner.
90.05   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City water system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public water upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council. Once connected, they cannot disconnect
without express, written permission from the City Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
90.06   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned off
at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight.
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural, or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.
90.08   TAPPING MAINS.
All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building, or premises shall
be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained from the
Superintendent and unless provision is made so that each house, building, or
premises may be shut off independently of the other.
2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter shall
receive no larger than a three-fourths inch tap. All mains of over six inches
in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Superintendent shall order. All taps in the mains shall
be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main shall be
tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Superintendent, shall be inserted in every tap in the main. The
corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service pipe.
4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Superintendent in such form as the
Superintendent shall require.
90.09   RESPONSIBILITY FOR SERVICE LINE.
The City shall install and maintain, at its expense, water mains and required
support and supply equipment. The customer shall install and maintain, at the
customer’s expense, service from the main point of usage, including necessary
tap, fittings, valves, curb stop, and waste cock at the end of the house side
of the customer’s service. All costs and expenses incident to the installation,
connection, and maintenance of the water service pipe shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation or maintenance of said
water service pipe. Water main shut-off for maintenance of private lines shall
be determined at the discretion of the City. The minimum earth cover of the
customer’s service line shall be five feet. The City shall determine the size
and kind of service to be installed. Property owners shall maintain their water
service from freezing and this is not the responsibility of the City.
90.10   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property. If the property owner fails to maintain the curb stop in good working
order, the City shall give a 10- day notice to the owner to install same and if
the owner does not install, the City shall cause a new one to be installed and
assess the property for the costs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.11   BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS.
Customers having boilers or pressure vessels receiving a supply of water from
the City must have an approved backflow prevention device. Water pressure
regulator valves are required on incoming water service lines. Insulation is
required on all replacement water lines.
90.12   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The premises receiving a supply of water and all service lines, meter and
fixtures, including any and all fixtures within the said premises, shall at all
reasonable hours be subject to inspection by duly authorized employees of the
City or its agents.
90.13   SPECIAL TERMS OF USE.
Special terms and conditions may be made where water is used by the City or
community for public purposes such as fire extinguishment, public parks, etc.
90.14   SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS.
The City shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruption of
service, and when such interruptions occur will endeavor to reestablish service
with the shortest possible delay. Whenever the service is interrupted for the
purpose of working on the distribution system or the station equipment, all
customers affected by such interruption will be notified in advance whenever it
is possible to do so.
90.15   CITY LIABILITY LIMITED.
The City shall in no event be held responsible for claims made against it by
reason of the breaking of any main or service pipe or by reason of any other
interruption of the supply of water caused by the breaking of machinery or
stoppage for necessary repairs; and no person shall be entitled to damages or
have any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption or service which,
in the opinion of the City, may be deemed necessary.
90.16   CUSTOMER’S LIABILITY.
If any loss or damage to the property of the City or any accident or injury to
persons or property is caused by or results from the negligence or wrongful act
of the customer, member of the customer’s household or agent or employee of the
customer, the cost of the necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by
the customer to the City and any liability otherwise resulting shall be that of
the customer.
90.17   USE OF WATER RESTRICTED.
Water furnished by the City may be used for domestic consumption by the
customer, members of the customer’s household and employees only. The customer
shall not sell or give the water to any other person.
90.18   EASEMENTS.
Each customer shall grant or convey or shall cause to be granted or conveyed to
the City a permanent easement and right-of-way across any property owned or
controlled by the customer wherever said easement or right-of-way is necessary
for the municipal water facilities and lines, so as to be able to furnish
service to the customer.
90.19   LINE EXTENSIONS.
1.   The City will construct extensions to its water lines to points within its
service area, but the City is not required to make such installations unless
the customer pays to the City the entire cost of the installation, engineering,
permits and inspections. All installations must comply with State regulations.
2.   All line extensions shall be evidenced by a contract signed by the City
and the person advancing funds for said extension, but each contract shall be
null and void unless approved by the governing bodies.
3.   All decisions in connection with the manner of installation of any
extension and maintenance thereof shall remain in the exclusive control of the
City and such extension shall be the property of the City and no other person
shall have any right, title or interest therein.
90.20   SERVICE REFUSED.
The City may refuse service to persons not presently customers when in the
opinion of the City the capacity of the facilities will not permit such
service.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Meters                 91.07 Meter Setting
91.02 Meter Tests            91.08 Meter Costs
91.03 Estimated Readings     91.09 Access
91.04 Construction Use       91.10 Requirements
91.05 Meter Installation Fee 91.11 Remote Readers
91.06 Meter Repairs
 
91.01   METERS.
All meters shall be obtained, installed, maintained and renewed by and at the
expense of the City, and the City shall determine the size and type of water
meter used. Water meters shall be installed in every building which is served
by a water service.
91.02   METER TESTS.
Upon written request of any customer, the meter serving said customer shall be
tested by the City. Such test will be made without charge to the customer if
the meter has not been tested within 12 months preceding the requested test;
otherwise, a charge equal to the cost of testing, as determined by the City,
shall be made on the customer’s account, and then only if the test indicates
meter accuracy within the limits of five percent. Meter accuracy shall be
determined by the actual reading of the inside meter and not by any remote
device.
91.03   ESTIMATED READINGS.
Where a meter has ceased to register or meter reading could not be obtained,
the quantity of water consumed for billing purposes will be based upon an
average of the prior six months’ consumption, and the conditions of water
service prevailing during the period in which the meter failed to register.
91.04   CONSTRUCTION USE.
Water for building or construction purposes will be furnished by meter
measurement, only after suitable deposit has been made, the minimum deposit
being $20.00 and the amount determined by the City depending upon the size of
the construction work contemplated. All water for building or construction
purposes, as set forth in the permit, must pass through one and the same meter.
Water so supplied shall be discharged through a hose or pipe directly upon
material to be wet, or into a barrel or other container, and in no case upon
the ground or into or through a ditch or trench, and all use of water by other
than the applicant or use of water for any purpose or upon any premises not so
stated or described in the application must be prevented by the applicant, or
water service may be discontinued without notice. When required by the City,
necessary backflow prevention devices shall be used.
91.05   METER INSTALLATION FEE.
There shall be a fee charged to the property owner for each new installation of
a water meter requested or required by the customer in an amount set by
resolution of the Council.
91.06   METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Superintendent shall have it repaired. If it is found that damage to the meter
has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property
owner, including freezing, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the
property owner shall be liable for the cost of repairs.
91.07   METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the supply and discharge side of the
meter. Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent and
shall be of a design and construction approved by the Superintendent.
91.08   METER COSTS.
The full cost of any meter larger than that required for a single-unit
residence (three-fourths inch) shall be paid to the City by the property owner
or customer prior to the installation of any such meter by the City, or, at the
sole option of the City, the property owner or customer may be required to
purchase and install such meter in accordance with requirements established by
the City.
91.09   ACCESS.
Water meters shall be installed and maintained to have reasonable access to the
meter for repair or replacement. Reasonable access shall be determined by the
City. If reasonable access is not maintained by owner, all costs associated in
obtaining access will be the responsibility of owner.
91.10   REQUIREMENTS.
All residential meters three-fourths inch or smaller will be provided at City
expense. Customer shall provide and maintain an environment for the meter and
necessary parts and fittings as to keep it from freezing, flooding, extreme
heat, electrical current, or any other condition which may damage the meter or
meter system. If damage occurs, the cost of repair or replacement will be at
the customer’s expense for parts and labor. Water meter shall be removed from
the system if measures are taken by owner to thaw a frozen water service.
91.11   REMOTE READERS.
All remote meter reading devices, when required by City, shall be installed no
less than 36 inches above ground and no higher than 54 inches above the ground.
These devices shall be placed and maintained for easy access for reading,
repair or replacement. Owner shall maintain a clear path to the water meter
remote or owner shall be charged the highest 12-month billing as an estimated
bill for that and all subsequent billing until pathway is made accessible to
remote. Remote shall be maintained in its original condition for ease of
identification. Painting of remote is not allowed. Remote shall be securely
fastened to building by means of screws, anchors or other approved device.
Customer will be responsible for replacement cost if needed.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES AND BILLING
92.01 Application for Service; 92.09 Lien Exemption
Administrative Fee
92.02 Service Charges          92.10 Lien Notice
92.03 Rates For Service        92.11 Requested Discontinuance of Service
92.04 Billing Procedures       92.12 Temporary Vacancy
92.05 Payment for Service      92.13 Administrative Fee
92.06 Delinquent Accounts      92.14 Waterworks Fund Account
92.07 Service Discontinued     92.15 Records Shall Be Kept
92.08 Lien for Nonpayment
 
92.01   APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
Applications for utility service shall be filed with the City Administrator/
Clerk upon a form supplied by the City. The application shall state the name of
the applicant, the social security number, driver’s license number, date of
birth, a current phone number, and the premises served. All applications filed
shall be accompanied by an administrative fee of $50.00 and signature of
applicant. Service may be refused for failure to provide any of the items
required herein.
92.02   SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters. Each location, building, premises, or
connection shall be considered a separate and distinct customer whether owned
or controlled by the same person or not.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.03   RATES FOR SERVICE.
Water service supplied by the Municipal Water Utility shall be furnished at the
following monthly rates:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   There shall be a base rate for each water utility account in the amount of
$18.30, payable monthly.
2.   There shall also be a $1.00 charge for meter rent payable each month.
3.   The rate based upon the meter readings of the amount of water consumed
shall be $5.36 per 100 cubic feet of water used. The rate will increase up to
2% thereafter on July 1st of each year if it is deemed necessary for the
budget.
Any property which receives municipal water and is outside the corporate limits
shall pay twice the rate.
(Section 92.03 – Ord. 2023-03 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
92.04   BILLING PROCEDURES.
Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account. Bills for
combined service accounts shall be sent monthly and shall be mailed to the
customer at the address listed on the application unless the customer files
with the Clerk’s office a written notification of change of address at least 30
days before said billing period. The City shall not otherwise be responsible
for delivery of any bill or notice, nor will the customer be excused from
payment of a bill or from any performance required in any notice concerning
water services.
92.05   PAYMENT FOR SERVICE.
Payment for combined service accounts shall be in accordance with the
following:
1.   Bills Issued. Bills shall be issued for combined service accounts within
the first full week of the month.
2.   Bills Payable. Bills are payable on the last day of the month and shall be
paid at the office of the Clerk.
3.   Late Payment Administrative Fee. Bills not paid when due shall be
considered delinquent and an administrative fee of $5.00 shall be added to each
delinquent bill.
92.06   DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued in accordance with
the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Notice. The City shall notify each delinquent customer that service will
be discontinued if payment of the combined service account, including late
payment charges, is not received by the fifteenth day of the following month.
Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail and shall inform the customer of the
nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the opportunity for a hearing
prior to the discontinuance.
2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
3.   Hearing. The customer has seven days from the date of the notice to submit
a written request for a hearing to dispute the outstanding bill or to challenge
placement of the debt in the State Setoff Program. Upon receipt of the request,
a hearing with the City Administrator/Clerk will be held within 48 hours. The
customer has the right to appeal the City Administrator/Clerk’s decision to the
Council, and if the Council finds that disconnection or placement of debt in
the State Setoff Program is justified, then such disconnection shall be made or
debt placed with the State Setoff Program, unless payment has been received.
4.   The City may take action to collect the amount of the delinquent account
by filing the case in small claims court or by employing the services of a
collection agency, or by referring the account to the State Setoff Program
administered by the Iowa Department of Revenue. The customer shall pay all
court costs or administrative fees incurred by the City in these collection
procedures.
(Subsections 3-4 – Ord. 2023-10 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
5.   The City may accept a payment arrangement of past due account from
customer. The arrangement must follow the prescribed outline.
   A.   Payments cannot exceed 12 monthly installments of one-twelfth of the
delinquent amount.
   B.   All current and preceding water/sewer bills must be maintained in good
standing during the agreement period.
   C.   Only one agreement per 12 months may be entered into per account.
   D.   If account relapses into delinquency during the agreement, the account
shall be paid in full or service shall be disconnected without notice.
6.   Fees. An administrative fee of $5.00 shall be charged to all customers
receiving a delinquent notice. An administrative fee of $50.00 shall be charged
before service is restored to a delinquent customer. Reconnection will not be
made until after all delinquent bills and other charges owed to the City by the
customer, if any, have been paid.
92.07   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
Application may be canceled or water service discontinued by the City for any
violation of any rule, regulation, or condition of service and especially for
any of the following reasons:
1.   Misrepresentation. Misrepresentation in the application as to the property
or fixtures to be supplied or use to be made of water.
2.   Failure to Report Use. Failure to report to the City addition to the
property or fixtures to the supplies or additional use to be made of water.
3.   Sale of Water. Resale or giving away of water.
4.   Misuse. Waste or misuse of water due to improper or imperfect service
pipes or fixtures, or failure to keep same in suitable state of repair.
5.   Tampering. Tampering with meter, meter seal, service, or valves or
permitting such tampering by others.
6.   Cross Connection. Connection, cross connection, or permitting same of any
separate water supply to premises which receive water from the utility.
7.   Delinquency. Nonpayment of bills including bad checks. A returned check
will equal nonpayment.
8.   Protection. Not properly or reasonably protecting the water supply.
92.08   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the City
Administrator/Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner
as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09   LIEN EXEMPTION.  
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply to
the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, stormwater drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for nonpayment
of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section shall not
be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or manufactured
home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is owned by a
tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home community and
the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or manager is the
account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the tenant is
responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed to the
account holder.
92.10   LIEN NOTICE.
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.11   REQUESTED DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
Any customer desiring to discontinue water service to his or her premises for
any reason must give notice of discontinuance in writing at the business office
of the City; otherwise, the customer shall remain liable for all water used and
service rendered by the City until said notice is received by the City and
service will be scheduled to be discontinued within 30 days of request.
Customer must provide access to an exposed properly working curb stop. City
will not be responsible for water that leaks by curb stop valve for any reason.
92.12   TEMPORARY VACANCY.
A property owner may request water service be temporarily discontinued and shut
off at the curb valve when the property is expected to be vacant for an
extended period of time. There shall be a $50.00 administrative fee collected
to shut off at the curb valve and restore service for the same customer. During
a period when service is temporarily discontinued as provided herein there
shall be no minimum service charge. The City will not drain pipes or pull
meters for temporary vacancies. Temporary vacancies should not exceed six
months.
92.13   ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
The owner of the premises served, the occupant thereof, and the user of the
water service shall all be jointly and severally liable for the water service
provided said premises. A non-refundable administrative fee of $50.00 shall be
required when:
1.   Water service is disconnected or restored, except for customers moving in
or out of a premises.
2.   Any reading requested by the customer beyond the normal reading cycle.
Readings taken for the purpose of a customer moving out or moving in are
exempted from this fee.
92.14   WATERWORKS FUND ACCOUNT.
All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the water system shall be
paid to and held by the City separate and apart from all other funds of the
City and all of said sums and all other funds and moneys incident to the
operation of said system, as may be delivered to the City, shall be deposited
in a separate fund designated the “Waterworks Fund Account,” and the Council
shall administer said fund in every respect in the manner provided by the Code
of Iowa and all other laws pertaining thereto.
92.15   RECORDS SHALL BE KEPT.
The City shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep proper
records, books and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall be made
of all transactions relative to the water system.
CHAPTER 93
BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
 
93.01 Purpose        93.04 Water System Requirements
93.02 Responsibility 93.05 Policy On Cross Connections
93.03 Definitions
 
93.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is as follows:
1.   To control the potential of a cross connection from a potable water supply
to a non-potable water supply.
2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between a customer’s in-plant potable water system and
non-potable water system, plumbing fixtures, and industrial piping system.
3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross connection
control that will systematically and effectively prevent the contamination or
pollution of all potable water systems.
93.02   RESPONSIBILITY.
The City and the public are responsible for the protection of the public water
supply from contamination or pollution due to the backflow of contaminants or
pollutants through the water service connection. If it is determined that an
approved backflow-prevention assembly is required for the safety of the water
system, the City shall give notice in writing to the water customer that such
customer needs to install an approved backflow prevention assembly at specific
location premises. The customer will have the unit tested according to this
chapter or recommendation by the Superintendent. Failure to comply with this
chapter will result in termination of the water service until the customer
complies. All backflow preventers will be tested at least once a year.
93.03   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for this chapter:
1.   “Air gap” means the unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet conveying water
or waste to a tank, plumbing fixture, receptor, or other assembly and the flood
level rim or the receptacle. These vertical, physical separations must be at
least twice the diameter of the water supply outlet, never less than one inch.
2.   “Auxiliary water supply” means any water supply on or available to the
premises other than the purveyor’s approved public water supply. These
auxiliary waters may include water from another purveyor’s public potable water
supply.
3.   “Backflow” means the undesirable reversal of flow in a potable water
distribution system as a result of a cross connection.
4.   “Backflow preventer” means an assembly or means designated to prevent
backflow.
5.   “Back-pressure” means a pressure higher than the supply pressure, caused
by a pump, elevated tank, boiler, or any other means that may cause backflow.
6.   “Back-siphonage” means a backflow caused by negative or reduced pressure
in the water supply piping.
7.   “Contamination” means an impairment of a potable water supply by the
introduction or admission of any foreign substance that degrades the quality
and creates a health hazard.
8.   “Cross connection” means a connection or potential connection between any
part of a potable water system and any other environment containing other
substances in a manner that, under any circumstances, would allow such
substances to enter the potable water system. Other substances may be gasses,
liquids, or solids, such as chemicals, waste products, steam, water from other
sources (potable or non-potable), or any matter that may change the color or
add odor to the water supply system.
9.   “Cross connection, controlled” means a connection between a potable water
supply system and a non-potable water system with an approved backflow
prevention assembly properly installed and maintained so that it will
continuously afford protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
10.   “Cross connection control by containment” means the installation of an
approved backflow prevention assembly at the water service connection to any
customer’s premises, where it is physically and economically unfeasible to find
and permanently eliminate or control all actual or potential cross connections
within the customer’s water system; or it means the installation of an approved
backflow prevention assembly on the service line leading to and supplying a
portion of a customer’s water system where there are actual or potential cross
connections that cannot be effectively eliminated or controlled at the point of
the cross connection.
11.    “Degree of hazard” is derived from an evaluation of the potential risk
to the public health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable
water system.
12.   “Double check valve assembly” means the approved double check valve
assembly which consists of two internally loaded check valves, either spring or
internally weighted, installed as a unit between two tightly closing resilient
seated shutoff valves and fittings with properly located resilient seated test
cocks. This assembly shall only be used to protect against a non-health hazard.
13.   “Health hazard” means a cross connection or potential cross connection
involving any substance that could, if introduced in the potable water supply,
cause death, illness or disease, or have a high probability of causing such
effects.
14.   “Hose bib aerator/dual check valves” means devices which are a general
protection on all interior and exterior locations. These apparatuses are for
non-hazard locations only. The life will be based on the factory specifications
or when deemed nonfunctional. These devices do not serve as a main backflow
prevention device, but will be mandatory on all new and existing residential
locations.
15.   “Industrial fluids system” means any system containing a fluid or
solution that may be chemically, biologically, or otherwise contained or
polluted in a form or concentration, such as would constitute a health, system,
pollution, or plumbing hazard. This includes, but is not limited to, polluted
or contaminated waters, all types of process waters and used waters originated
from the public potable water system that may have deteriorated in sanitary
quality. Chemicals in a fluid form are plating acids, alkalis, circulating
cooling waters connected to an open cooling tower, cooling tower, toxic and
nontoxic substances, wells, springs, streams, rivers, bays, harbors, seas,
irrigations, oils, gases, glycerin, paraffin, caustic acid solutions, and other
liquids and gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes or for fire-
fighting purposes that service the premises.
16.   “Non-health hazard” means a cross connection or potential cross
connection involving any substance that generally would not be a health hazard,
but would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable, if
introduced into the potable water supply.
17.   “Non-potable water” means water that is not safe for human consumption or
that is of questionable quality.
18.   “Plumbing hazard” means a plumbing type cross connection in a customer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by an approved air
gap or an approved backflow prevention assembly.
19.   “Pollution” means the presence of any foreign substance in water that
tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a health hazard or impair the
usefulness of the water.
20.   “Potable water” means water that is safe for human consumption as
described by the public health authority having jurisdiction.
21.   “Reduced-pressure backflow prevention assembly” means the approved
reduced-pressure principle backflow prevention assembly which consists of two
independently acting approved check valves together with a hydraulically
operating, mechanically independent pressure differential relief valve located
between the check valves and below the first check valve. These units are
located between two tightly closing resilient shutoff valves as an assembly and
equipped with properly located resilient test cocks.
22.   “Service connection” means the terminal end of a service connection from
the public potable water system, that is, where the water purveyor loses
jurisdiction and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to
the customer’s water system. The City is responsible for the main only and the
owner is responsible for the main corporation to the house or structure. The
City still has ownership of the water meter that is located on the customer’s
line. The backflow assembly will be located after the water meter.
23.   “System hazard” means an actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the customer’s
potable water system or a pollution or contamination that would have a
protracted effect of the quality of the potable water in the system.
93.04   WATER SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
1.   The water system shall be considered as two parts, the water utility
system (City water mains, hydrants, valves, etc.) and the customer system.
2.   Utility system shall consist of the source facilities and distribution
system, and shall include all those facilities of the water system under the
complete control of the utility, up to the point where the customer’s system
begins.
3.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in the
production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the distribution
system.
4.   The distribution system shall include the network of piping, valves, and
hydrants used for the delivery of water from the source to the customer’s
system.
5.   The customer’s system shall include those parts of the facilities beyond
the termination of the utility distribution system that are utilized in
conveying delivered domestic water to points of use.
93.05   POLICY ON CROSS CONNECTIONS.
1.   No water service connections to any premises shall be installed or
maintained until the Superintendent agrees the site is a non-hazard location.
The water purveyor will not turn the water supply on until an approved backflow
preventer is in place for a site that is deemed as a high-risk location. The
water supply must be protected as required by the State of Iowa rules and
regulations on cross connections. Service of water to any premises shall be
discontinued by the water purveyor if a backflow prevention assembly is
required by the City. Water service will be terminated if the customer removes
the backflow preventer, bypasses the assembly, or fails to comply with the
rules. The customer may be allowed to have water restored after paying for all
costs to bring the backflow preventer assembly back to factory condition.
2.   All new home service connections will have a dual check valve installed
after the water meter. The house will also have anti-siphon faucets located on
the exterior of the house. All dual check valves will be replaced every time
the meter is replaced. This will be at the homeowner’s expense and the City
will pay for the water meter according to the City ordinance in place. This
system will only be approved for non-hazard locations.
3.   The customer’s system shall be open for inspection at all reasonable times
for the City. The owner is responsible for notifying the City of any cross
connection or defective assemblies that are out of service for repair. The City
will not be liable for homeowner’s neglect and responsibility to notify the
City of the cross connections. Failure to comply with the City’s water supply
cross connection program will result in termination of water supply to the
premises in which the violation is occurring.
4.   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on each
service line to a customer’s water system at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being serviced, but in some cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service line wherever the following
conditions exist.
   A.   In the case of premises having an auxiliary water supply that is not or
may not be of safe bacteriological or chemical quality and that is not
acceptable as an additional source by the City. The public water system shall
be protected against backflow from the premises by installing an approved
backflow prevention assembly in the service line, appropriate to the degree of
hazard.
   B.   In the case of premises on which any industrial fluids or any
objectionable substances are handled in such a fashion as to create an actual
or potential hazard to the public water system. The public system shall be
protected against backflow from the premises by installing an approved backflow
prevention assembly in the service line, appropriate to the degree of hazard.
This shall be subject to the handling of process waters originating from the
utility system that have been subject to deterioration in quality.
   C.   In the case of premises having internal cross connections that cannot
be permanently corrected and controlled, or intricate plumbing and piping
arrangements, or where entry to all portions of the premises is not readily
accessible for inspection purposes, making it impractical or impossible to
ascertain whether or not dangerous cross connections exist. The public water
system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by installing an
approved backflow prevention assembly in the service line.
5.   The type of protective assembly required under Paragraphs A, B, and C of
Subsection 4 shall depend upon the degree of hazard that exists as follows:
   A.   In the case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water supply as
stated in this section and it is not subject to any of the following rules, the
public water system shall be protected by an approved air gap separation or an
approved reduced-pressure principle backflow prevention assembly.
   B.   In the case of any premises where there is water or substance that
would be objectionable, but not hazardous to health, if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
double check valve assembly.
   C.   In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous to
health that is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or potential
hazard to the public water system, the public system shall be protected by an
approved air gap separation or an approved reduced-pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly. Examples of premises where these conditions will exist
include sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, chemical
manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries, and plating plants.
   D.   In the case of any premises where there are “uncontrolled” cross
connections, either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air gap separation or an approved reduced-pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly at the service connection.
   E.   In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements or
other prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete in-plant cross connection survey, the public water system shall be
protected against backflow from the premises by either an approved air gap
separation or an approved reduced-pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly on each service to the premises.
   F.   In the case of any premises where, in the opinion of the Superintendent
or Public Health Department, an undue health threat is posed because of the
presence of extremely toxic substances, the Superintendent or Public Health
Department may require an air gap at the service connection to protect the
public water system. This requirement will be at the discretion of the
Superintendent or Public Health Department and is dependent on the degree of
hazard.
6.   Any backflow prevention assembly required shall be a model and size
approved by the Superintendent or City Engineer. The required assembly will
follow the American Water Works Association standard and specifications that
are approved for the backflow preventer assembly.
7.   It shall be the duty of the customer or user at any premises where
backflow prevention assemblies are installed to have certified inspections and
operational tests made at least once per calendar year. In those instances
where the Superintendent deems the hazard to be great enough, the
Superintendent may require the assembly to be tested more frequently or at
different intervals. All tests completed on any assembly will be completed by a
State of Iowa certified Backflow Preventer Tester. All repairs made will be
completed and inspected by a certified Backflow Preventer Tester. All paperwork
will include a copy of the certified tester certification and all inspection
forms will be properly filed with the City before the water is restored to the
premises.
8.   All properly installed backflow prevention assemblies already installed
will be allowed to stay in operation as long as the assembly passes all code
requirements, specifications, and testing requirements. If the unit does not
comply with all tests, it will have to be replaced or rebuilt to meet all
requirements in this chapter.
CHAPTER 94
OPERATION OF PRIVATE WELLS
 
94.01 Private Wells or Water Supplies 94.02 Plugging of Existing Wells and
                                      Connection to Public Water Supply
 
94.01   PRIVATE WELLS OR WATER SUPPLIES.
It is unlawful for any person to drill, operate, or otherwise maintain a
private well or water supply on public or private property within the City or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.
94.02   PLUGGING OF EXISTING WELLS AND CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the owners of any property
located wholly or partially within the City are required at each owner’s
expense to plug any existing private wells in accordance with Section 455B.190
of the Code of Iowa and to cease utilizing any private water supplies to the
extent that such wells or water supplies are located within the City or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the City or supply water to property located
within the City. Such owners are further required to connect their houses,
buildings, or other facilities on the property (to the extent the structure
requires a potable water supply) to the public water system. Connection shall
be made within 120 days of the effective date of annexation of the affected
property into the City. This requirement does not apply to any property located
within the City prior to the date of Ordinance No. 2003-10 codified in this
chapter (grandfathered property). Any property owner electing to connect to the
public water supply shall comply with all requirements of this chapter and
become a full requirements water customer of the public water supply system.
(Chapter 94 – Ord. 2023-01 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.06 Service Outside the City
95.02 Definitions               95.07 Right of Entry
95.03 Superintendent            95.08 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.09 Special Penalties
95.05 Sewer Connection Required
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20?, expressed in milligrams per liter or
parts per million.
2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the public
sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
or other body of surface or groundwater.
10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary conveniences
of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings,
factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and industrial
waste.
14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees levied
against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of said
customers by said sewer system.
20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
22.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of sewage works and/or of water
pollution control of the City or any authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable by
laboratory filtering.
24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   SUPERINTENDENT.
The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections, and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on public
or private property within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage except
as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City, or
in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 60 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so. Billing for sanitary sewer
service will begin the date of official notice to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
(Section 95.05 – Ord. 2023-01 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
95.06   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council. Once connected, they cannot disconnect
without express, written permission from the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
95.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.08   USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation of
this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                  96.06 Interceptors Required
96.02 Connection Fee          96.07 Sewer Tap
96.03 Plumber Required        96.08 Inspection Required
96.04 Excavations             96.09 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.05 Connection Requirements 96.10 Abatement of Violations
 
96.01   PERMIT.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the City. The application for the permit shall
set forth the location and description of the property to be connected with the
sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be used, and shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent. The permit shall require the owner to complete construction and
connection of the building sewer to the public sewer within 60 days after the
issuance of the permit, except that when a property owner makes sufficient
showing that due to conditions beyond the owner’s control or peculiar hardship,
such time period is inequitable or unfair, an extension of time within which to
comply with the provisions herein may be granted. Any sewer connection permit
may be revoked at any time for a violation of these chapters.
96.02   CONNECTION FEE.
The City shall assess a one-time fee for the initial connection of a sewer line
to offset the sewer main construction costs. Residential properties will pay a
$250.00 fee for the initial connection and commercial or industrial properties
will pay a $350.00 fee.
1.   Said hookup fee is due and payable to the City at the time a connection
permit is obtained.
2.   Special allowances will be made when a developer has paid for the sewer
main construction. In developments and subdivisions where a developer has paid
to install a sewer main, and where sewer main was stubbed for service lines
into the development as part of the sewer main project, the above connection
fees will not be assessed.
3.   If the property to be connected to a City sewer line is outside of the
corporate limits and for some reason is unable to be annexed into the corporate
limits, all fees will be doubled.
96.03   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer shall
be made by a State-licensed plumber. The plumber shall provide proof of
liability insurance.
96.04   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
96.05   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
1.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted by
the owner and observed by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
2.   Separate Building Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer shall
be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway. In such cases the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
3.   Installation. The installation and connection of the building sewer to the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code and
applicable rules and regulations of the City. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
4.   Water Lines. When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service. The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer.
5.   Size. Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
6.   Alignment and Grade. All building sewers shall be laid to a straight line
to meet the following:
   A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot.
   B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot.
   C.   Minimum velocity of two feet per second with the sewer half full.
   D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the written
approval of the Superintendent and shall be made only with approved fittings.
7.   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth of cover above the
sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
8.   Sewage Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building
sewer.
9.   Pipe Specifications. Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws, splits,
or breaks. Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code except
that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public sewer, shall
comply with the current edition of one of the following:
   A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
   B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74.
   C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
   D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
10.   Bearing Walls. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within
three feet of any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened.
11.   Jointing. Fittings, type of joint and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Superintendent. Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
12.   Unstable Soil. No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is exposed
when crossing any watercourse. Where an old watercourse must of necessity be
crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement, cast iron
soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete shall be
required for such crossings. Such encasement shall extend at least six inches
on all sides of the pipe. The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe shall rest on
firm, solid material at either end.
13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space. No connection for any residence,
business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made unless the
basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab or crawl
space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to the
foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled. The backfill
shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from the
foundation. Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the first floor
is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the
plug shall be sealed by the Superintendent. Any accumulation of water in any
excavation or basement during construction and prior to connection to the
sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other than draining into the sanitary
sewer.
14.   Cleanout Access. All new sewer service shall have installed a cleanout
access which will use a “Y” in the service line, a 45 degree elbow, and pipe
extending to ground level with a removable cap or plug the same diameter as the
pipe. The cap or plug access shall be at ground level and secured by a concrete
slab 8 inches by 8 inches by 3½ inches thick in order to prevent cleanout from
being moved. Cleanout access shall be no closer than three feet from the
building and not more than 10 feet from the building. Sewer service which have
a running length of more than 150 feet from the building to the main shall have
a cleanout placed at 75-foot intervals.
15.   Backwater/Check Valves and Insulation. When and where required by the
City, property owners shall install an approved backwater valve when drainage
piping serving fixtures which have a flood level rim located below the
elevation of the next/closest upstream manhole cover rim of the public or
private sewer. Fixtures above such elevation shall not discharge through the
backwater valve.
96.06   INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, sludge, and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and service
stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities when,
in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand, or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required,
such interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
1.   Design and Location. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity as
specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Superintendent, and
shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight.
3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at the
owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at all
times.
96.07   SEWER TAP.
Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the “Y”
branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent. The public sewer shall be tapped with
a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer shall be
glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the sewer. At no
time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a manhole unless
special written permission is received from the Superintendent and in
accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is approved.
96.08   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Superintendent. As soon as all pipe
work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and
before any backfilling is done, the Superintendent shall be notified and the
Superintendent shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material;
no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or trenches filled until after
the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Superintendent refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the
work.
96.09   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
96.10   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date of
official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Stormwater               97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                               Superintendent
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01   STORMWATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
that are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02   SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where such
discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but any
permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to be
in the best interests of the sewer system.
97.03   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil,
or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides (CN) in excess of two milligrams per
liter as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities or
of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
   A.   Any waters or wastes: (i) having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand
greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or (ii) containing more than 350
parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or (iii) having an average
daily flow greater than two percent of the average sewage flow of the City,
shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent.
   B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to: (i) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight; or (ii) reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
or (iii) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150? (65?).
2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32? and 150? (0? to 65?).
4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to such
a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
inch in any dimension.
5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or
odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life
or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
   A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
   B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
   C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
   D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting “slugs”
as defined herein.
11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration, or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are not
amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed,
or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent
may:
1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the
provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06   SPECIAL FACILITIES.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary treatment or
flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner’s expense.
97.07   CONTROL MANHOLES.
When required by the , the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together
with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at the owner’s expense, and shall be maintained by the
owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
97.08   TESTING OF WASTES.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.06 Maintenance of System
98.02 When Required               98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.08 Disposal of Septage
98.04 Permit Required             98.09 Minimum Lot Area
98.05 Discharge Restrictions
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(567 IAC 69.1[3 and 4])
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch, stream, pond,
lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the surface of the
ground.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall operate
and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to
the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an on-
site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
98.09   MINIMUM LOT AREA.
No permit shall be issued for any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system employing sub-surface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 15,000 square feet.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01 Sewer Service Charges Required 99.05 Payment of Bills
99.02 Rate                           99.06 Lien For Nonpayment
99.03 Special Rates                  99.07 Special Agreements Permitted
99.04 Private Water Systems
 
99.01   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.
Every customer shall pay to the City sewer service charges as hereinafter
provided.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.02   RATE.
1.   There shall be a base rate for each sewer utility account in the amount of
$46.50, payable monthly.    
(Subsection 1 – Ord. 2024-02 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
2.   The consumption rate for sewer usage will be based upon the meter readings
of the amount of water consumed and shall be $6.68 per 100 cubic feet. The rate
will increase up to 2% thereafter on July 1st of each year if it is deemed
necessary for the budget.
3.   Any property which uses municipal sewer service and is outside the
corporate limits shall pay twice the rate.
(Section 99.02 – Ord. 2023-03 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
99.03   SPECIAL RATES.
Where, in the judgment of the Superintendent and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer charges
provided in Section
99.02 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the customer, a
special rate shall be proposed by the Superintendent and submitted to the
Council for approval by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.04   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
Customers whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay sewer
charges based upon the water used as determined by the City either by an
estimate agreed to by the customer or by metering the water system at the
customer’s expense. Any negotiated or agreed-upon sales or charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.05   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Sewer service may be discontinued or
disconnected in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.07 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.10 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
99.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.09 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for sewer
service charges to the premises. Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and
delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and
shall be certified by the City Administrator/Clerk to the County Treasurer for
collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.07   SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
105.01 Purpose                    105.09 Open Burning Restricted
105.02 Definitions                105.10 Open Burning
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required 105.11 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.04 Health Hazard              105.12 Waste Storage Containers
105.05 Hazardous Materials        105.13 Separation of Yard Waste Required
105.06 Littering Prohibited       105.14 Prohibited Practices
105.07 Protection Required        105.15 Recycling Program
105.08 Fire Hazard                105.16 Construction Waste: Temporary
                                  Dumpsters
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and recyclables and, thereby, to
protect the citizens of the City from such hazards to their health, safety, and
welfare as may result from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste and
recyclables.
105.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
1.   “Agreement” means the contract or agreement between City and hauler for
the collection and hauling of refuse and recyclables.
2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a building
and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or are
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating. Each unit of a
two-unit dwelling shall be considered a separate dwelling unit for purposes of
billing.
4.   “Hauler” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from public and
private places, by contract or permit with the City.
5.   “Hazard” means a danger or risk lurking in a situation which by change or
fortuity develops into an active agency of harm.
6.   “Hazardous materials” includes explosive materials; materials contaminated
by infectious or contagious disease; fly ash or other fine or powdery material;
and other material which may present a special hazard to sanitary landfill
personnel, equipment or to the public.
7.   “Heavy commercial customers” shall mean non-residential customers who
select commercial dumpsters for refuse pickup as opposed to totes.
8.   “Light commercial customers” shall mean non-residential customers who
select totes for refuse pickup as opposed to a commercial dumpster.
9.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris. Litter includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers,
cigarette butts, food waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills,
empty cartons, or boxes.
10.   “Open burning” means any burning of combustible materials where the
products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passage through a
chimney or stack.
11.   “Open dumping” means the depositing of solid waste on the surface of the
ground or into a body or stream of water.
12.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person residing
in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating, or transacting business in any
premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association, trust or other legal entity, and includes a
trustee, receiver, assignee or similar representative thereof, but does not
include a governmental body.
14.   “Recyclable material” shall mean designated consumer wastes which are
collected and marketed for resource recovery, including cardboard, newspaper,
tin and steel cans, aluminum beverage containers, and plastic containers #1 and
#2 or any other items which are accepted by the recycling center or designated
by hauler.
15.   “Refuse” shall mean solid waste, such as food waste, trash, rags,
ceramics, non-recyclable glass, paper (except newspaper), obsolete household
goods, non-recyclable plastic and similar items. Recyclables shall be treated
as refuse if not properly disposed of as set forth herein. Refuse does not
include toxic and hazardous water.
16.   “Residential customers” shall mean customers at dwelling units.
17.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes yard waste grown on the
premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes, and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
18.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and
non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
19.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
20.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
21.   “Sanitary landfill” means a method of disposing of refuse on land by
utilizing the principles of engineering to confine the refuse to the smallest
practical area, to reduce it to the smallest practical volume, and to cover it
with a layer of earth at the conclusion of each day’s operation or at such more
frequent intervals as may be necessary so that no nuisance or hazard to the
public health is created.
22.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar discarded
solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such materials
resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic activities.
Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of the Code of
Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
   A.   Hazardous materials or hazardous waste regulated under the Federal
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
   B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
   C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
   D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
   E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
   F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A of
the Code of Iowa.
   G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
      (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
      (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing to
ensure production is not interrupted.
23.   “Solid waste collection” means the gathering of solid waste from public
and private places.
24.   “Solid waste transportation” means the conveying of solid waste from one
place to another by means of a vehicle, rail car, water vessel, conveyor or
other means.
25.   “Toxic and hazardous waste” means waste materials, including (but not
limited to) poisons, pesticides, herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological
waste, flammable or explosive materials, and similar harmful waste that
requires special handling and that must be disposed of in such a manner as to
conserve the environment and protect the public health and safety.
26.   “Yard waste” shall mean grass clippings, non-woody dead plants, weeks,
flowers, and twigs less than one-half (1/2) inch in diameter.
105.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all
refuse, yard waste, and recyclable material accumulating on owner’s premises
before it becomes a nuisance. Any such accumulation remaining on any premises
for a period of more than 30 days shall be deemed a nuisance and the City may
proceed to abate such nuisances in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in district court.
105.04   HEALTH HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste or yard
waste, either in containers or not, that constitute a health or sanitation
hazard.
105.05   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
hauler collection any hazardous solid waste. Hazardous materials shall be
transported by the owner or other responsible person or agent to a place of
safe deposit or disposal as prescribed by the health officer, which place of
deposit or disposal may in exceptional cases be a place other than an agency-
operated site or otherwise subject to special conditions or limitations.
However, hazardous materials may be deposited upon the receipt of written
permission of a responsible official or attendant of the hauler and subject to
any special instructions issued with said permission.
105.06   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall throw, rake, deposit, place, drop or spill litter onto or in
any water or land, waste material or foreign material upon the streets,
sidewalks or other public right-of-way or into drainage systems or waterways
within the City, except that nothing in this section shall be construed to
affect the authorized collection and discarding of such litter in or on areas
or receptacles provided for such purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor
vehicle, the driver of the motor vehicle shall be responsible for the act in
any case where doubt exists as to which occupant of the motor vehicle actually
discarded the litter.
105.07   PROTECTION REQUIRED.
No person shall haul any solid waste upon the streets, alleys or public places
of the City in any manner except in a vehicle or container so equipped as to
prevent the blowing or leakage or dropping off of any of the contents on the
public streets or ways of the City or private property therein.
105.08   FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate quantities of solid waste
within or close to any building, unless same is stored in containers in such a
manner as to not create a fire hazard.
105.09   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
No person shall allow, cause, or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape waste,
for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an officially
declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of any
structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings at
a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in compliance
with the rules established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
3.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
4.   Yard Waste. The disposal by open burning of yard waste originating on the
premises. However, the burning of yard waste produced in clearing, grubbing,
and construction operations shall be limited to areas located at least one-
fourth mile from any building inhabited by other than the landowner or tenant
conducting the open burning. Rubber tires, or similar items or material, shall
not be used to ignite yard waste.
5.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources. Refuse,
rubber tires, or similar items or material, shall not be burned in a
recreational fire.
6.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide training
of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided that the
training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by the State
Department of Natural Resources.
7.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of a
demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
8.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
105.10   OPEN BURNING.
1.   No person shall allow, cause, or permit open burning of combustible
materials, except yard waste or leaves which originated on the premises. Leaves
and yard waste are not to be burned in the public way.
2.   Burning cannot occur if the County Supervisors have declared a burning
ban.
3.   The burning of garbage, refuse, building materials, trade wastes, rubber
tires, material left from demolition of any structure, yard waste originating
from a different location, or furniture is prohibited.
4.   Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation and ceremonies are permitted
if contained, such as in a rock-lined ring.
5.   Open fires shall be constantly attended by an adult until such fire is
extinguished. This person shall have a hose connected to the water supply or
other fire-extinguishing equipment readily available for use.
6.   Yard waste fires may not be started before sunrise and must be completely
extinguished by sunset.
7.   If a City official deems any fire to be a nuisance as defined in Municipal
Code Section
50.01, the offender (and the property owner if the offender is not the owner)
shall be given verbal or written notification to immediately abate the
nuisance. In addition, the offender and/or property owner shall receive a
written municipal infraction in accordance with
Chapter 3 of the Municipal Code. For purposes of enforcing this provision of
the Code, “City official” means the Mayor, City Administrator/Clerk, Police
Chief or designee, Fire Chief or designee and Public Works Director.
A violation of this section is considered a municipal infraction and penalties
as outlined in Chapter 3 are applicable.
105.11   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources.
105.12   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
Solid waste containers shall be provided by the hauler. Residential solid waste
containers shall be stored upon the residential premises. Commercial solid
waste containers shall be stored upon private property, unless the owner has
been granted written permission from the City to use public property for such
purposes. The storage site shall be well drained and fully accessible to
collection equipment, public health personnel, and fire inspection personnel.
All owners shall be responsible for proper storage of all refuse and yard waste
to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around neighboring yards and
streets.
105.13   SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other solid
waste accumulated on the premises.
105.14   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste containers
not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of such
containers.
2.   Interfere with Haulers. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste haulers in the lawful performance of
their duties as such.
3.   Unlawful Disposal. Dispose of refuse at any facility or location which is
not an approved sanitary disposal site.
4.   Unlawful Collection. Engage in the business of collecting, transporting,
processing or disposing of refuse within the City without a contract with the
City. This subsection does not prohibit an owner from transporting solid waste
accumulating upon premises owned, occupied or used by such owner, provided such
refuse is disposed of properly.
5.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or refuse except in incinerators designed for
high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, in amounts deemed
acceptable under appropriate regulations of the State Department of Natural
Resources, Federal Environmental Protection Commission, or other State or
federal agency with jurisdiction.
6.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out for
collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
hauler.
105.15   RECYCLING PROGRAM.
The City shall provide for the collection of recyclable material in accordance
with the provisions of a contract between the City and the hauler. All
recyclable materials shall be separated and prepared for collection in
accordance with the rules and regulations established by the hauler.
105.16   CONSTRUCTION WASTE: TEMPORARY DUMPSTERS.
It is the duty of owners to provide for the safe and sanitary disposal of all
construction related debris. In no event shall such debris be permitted to
accumulate on an owner’s property outside of a dumpster or other customary
trash receptacle for any period of more than 24 hours. Owners using dumpsters
(for purposes of this section “roll-off” containers are considered dumpsters)
for a temporary use, such as a construction related project or using dumpsters
on a temporary basis for any other purpose, shall be subject to the following
requirements.
1.   Provide for space on the owner’s property for placement of the dumpster no
closer than 10 feet from any building on a neighboring property.
2.   In the event no space is available on the owner’s property, owners shall
obtain a permit from the City to place a dumpster upon a public right-of-way,
including, but not limited to public streets and areas adjacent to public
streets and dedicated to public use, such as a utility easement. In no event
shall a dumpster be permitted upon a public sidewalk.
   A.   The issuance of a permit for such a dumpster requires a deposit to the
City in the sum of $100.00. Any such permit shall be valid for a period of 14
days from the date of issuance. Upon timely removal of the dumpster, the
deposit shall be returned to the owner less an administrative charge of $25.00.
If the dumpster is not removed prior to the expiration of the 14 day permit,
and owner does not take appropriate steps to secure an extension of the permit
(which shall carry an additional administrative charge of $25.00), the City has
the right to remove the dumpster and retain owner’s entire deposit.
   B.   Placement of such dumpsters shall not interfere with traffic, shall be
placed as close to the curb as possible, and shall further be subject to the
provisions of Section
69.06 of this Code of Ordinances.
   C.   Owner shall secure such dumpster(s) to prevent persons from entering
into or removing items from the dumpster.
   D.   If a dumpster is located in the General Office and Retail District as
defined by Section
165.07(7) of this Code of Ordinances, it may not remain over a weekend unless
prior approval appearing on the face of the permit is obtained from the City.
Violation of this section may result in the City causing the dumpster(s) with
all costs being assessed against owner, and/or fines being assessed against
owner in the amount of $50.00 per day of violation, each day constituting a
separate violation. The City may take steps to assess costs and fines against
owner, owner’s property, and/or seek to collect unpaid costs and fines through
the State of Iowa Income Offset Program.
(Chapter 105 – Ord. 2023-04 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Purpose            106.05 Collection Rates
106.02 Definitions        106.06 Payment of Invoices
106.03 Hauler Collection  106.07 Lien for Nonpayment
106.04 Hauler Disposition
 
106.01 PURPOSE.
The City shall provide by contract for the collection of solid waste as set
forth within
Chapter 105 of this Code of Ordinances.
106.02 DEFINITIONS.
The terms and provisions defined within
Chapter 105 shall, by this reference, be adopted, incorporated herein, and made
applicable to this chapter.
106.03 HAULER COLLECTION.
By virtue of an agreement entered into between the City and hauler, hauler has
agreed to provide refuse and recycling collection and hauling services for and
on behalf of the City subject to the following conditions:
1.   Collections shall be made not less than once a week, at such times and in
such areas of the City as set out in schedules agreed upon by the City and
hauler, as set forth in the agreement.
2.   City and hauler are authorized and empowered jointly to change or amend
such schedules from time to time as deemed necessary, consistent with agreement
terms and provisions.
3.   Collection may be made either from streets or alleys at hauler discretion.
4.   Totes shall be placed at the collection point or other location if and as
agreed to by hauler. Hauler shall provide totes and owner shall be responsible
for the placement of the tote(s) at the collection point.
106.04 HAULER DISPOSITION.
Pursuant to the agreement between City and hauler, it is mandatory that all
residential customers and light commercial customers utilize the services of
hauler for all solid waste and recyclable collection and transportation.
Pursuant to said agreement, heavy commercial customers will be required to
utilize the services of hauler for all solid waste, and cardboard recycling
from and after January 1, 2026, throughout the agreement term and any extension
or continuation thereof. At the discretion of hauler, certain materials may be
excluded from solid waste collected and transported by hauler. Excluded
materials may include junk automobile bodies and similar bulky objects which
may require special processing prior to disposal; trees and tree limbs; burning
materials or materials containing hot or live coals; hazardous materials; and
other materials which hauler deems necessary to exclude.
106.05 COLLECTION RATES.
Every customer now or hereafter served by hauler shall pay fees to the City at
the rate and in the manner provided below.
1.   Schedule of Fees. The monthly fee for solid waste and recyclables
collection and disposal service, used or available, are:
   A.   For each residential customer, per dwelling unit:
   Refuse:
   Year 1 (January 1, 2024-December 31, 2024) - $22.24/month
   Year 2 (January 1, 2025-December 31, 2025) - $23.12/month
   Year 3 (January 1, 2026-Decmeber 31, 2026) - $24.05/month
   Year 4 (January 1, 2027-Decmeber 31, 2027) - $25.01/month
   Year 5 (January 1, 2028-Decmeber 31, 2028) - $26.01/month
   Year 6 (January 1, 2029-December 31, 2029) - $27.05/month
   The above fees are based upon the collection of refuse from one 65-gallon
tote. If more than one 65-gallon tote is provided, the monthly fee will be
increased at the same per tote rate times the number of totes provided. Any
customer who requests and is provided an additional tote, or totes, will be
required to keep and pay for the extra tote(s) for a minimum of six months.
   Recyclable Materials:
   Year 1 (January 1, 2024-December 31, 2024) - $10.55/month
   Year 2 (January 1, 2025-December 31, 2025) - $10.97/month
   Year 3 (January 1, 2026-December 31, 2026) - $11.41/month
   Year 4 (January 1, 2027-December 31, 2027) - $11.86/month
   Year 5 (January 1, 2028-December 31, 2028) - $12.34/month
   Year 6 (January 1, 2029-December 31, 2029) - $12.83/month
   The above fees are based upon the collection of recyclable materials from
one 65-gallon tote. If more than one 65-gallon tote is provided, the monthly
fee will be increased at the same per tote rate times the number of totes
provided. Any customer who requests and is provided an additional tote, or
totes, will be required to keep and pay for the extra tote(s) for a minimum of
six months.
   B.   For each light commercial customer
   Refuse:
   Year 1 (January 1, 2024-December 31, 2024) - $27.57/month
   Year 2 (January 1, 2025-December 31, 2025) - $28.67/month
   Year 3 (January 1, 2026-Decmeber 31, 2026) - $29.82/month
   Year 4 (January 1, 2027-Decmeber 31, 2027) - $31.01/month
   Year 5 (January 1, 2028-Decmeber 31, 2028) - $33.25/month
   Year 6 (January 1, 2029-December 31, 2029) - $33.54/month
   The above fees are based upon the collection of refuse from one 65-gallon
tote. If more than one 65-gallon tote is provided, the monthly fee will be
increased at the same per tote rate times the number of totes provided. Any
customer who requests and is provided an additional tote, or totes, will be
required to keep and pay for the extra tote(s) for a minimum of six months.
   Recyclable Materials:
   Year 1 (January 1, 2024-December 31, 2024) - $13.07/month
   Year 2 (January 1, 2025-December 31, 2025) - $13.60/month
   Year 3 (January 1, 2026-December 31, 2026) - $14.14/month
   Year 4 (January 1, 2027-December 31, 2027) - $14.71/month
   Year 5 (January 1, 2028-December 31, 2028) - $15.29/month
   Year 6 (January 1, 2029-December 31, 2029) - $15.91/month
   The above fees are based upon the collection of recyclable materials from
one 65-gallon tote. If more than one 65-gallon tote is provided, the monthly
fee will be increased at the same per tote rate times the number of totes
provided. Any customer who requests and is provided an additional tote, or
totes, will be required to keep and pay for the extra tote(s) for a minimum of
six months.
   C.   For heavy commercial customers:
   Year 1 (January 1, 2024-December 31, 2024) - $26.00 per cubic yard per
pickup per week of dumpster volume and pickup frequency selected in advance by
customer.
   Year 2 (January 1, 2025-December 31, 2025) - $27.04 per cubic yard per
pickup per week of dumpster volume and pickup frequency selected in advance by
customer.
   Year 3 (January 1, 2026-December 31, 2026) - $28.12 per cubic yard per
pickup per week of dumpster volume and pickup frequency selected in advance by
customer.
   Year 4 (January 1, 2027-December 31, 2027) - $29.25 per cubic yard per
pickup per week of dumpster volume and pickup frequency selected in advance by
customer.
   Year 5 (January 1, 2028-December 31, 2028) - $30.42 per cubic yard per
pickup per week of dumpster volume and pickup frequency selected in advance by
customer.
   Year 6 (January 1, 2029-December 31, 2029) - $31.64 per cubic yard per
pickup per week of dumpster volume and pickup frequency selected in advance by
customer.
   Heavy commercial cardboard:
   Year 1 (January 1, 2024-December 31, 2024) – 2-yard dumpster - $104/month;
3-yard dumpster - $130/month; 4-yard dumpster - $156/month; 6-yard dumpster -
$208/month
   Year 2 (January 1, 2025-December 31, 2025) – 2-yard dumpster - $108.16/
month; 3-yard dumpster - $135.20/month; 4-yard dumpster - $162.24/month; 6-yard
dumpster - $216.32/month
   Year 3 (January 1, 2026-December 31, 2026) – 2-yard dumpster - $112.49/
month; 3-yard dumpster - $140.61/month; 4-yard dumpster - $168.73/month; 6-yard
dumpster - $224.97/month
   Year 4 (January 1, 2027-December 31, 2027) – 2-yard dumpster - $116.99/
month; 3-yard dumpster - $146.23/month; 4-yard dumpster - $175.48/month; 6-yard
dumpster - $233.97/month
   Year 5 (January 1, 2028-December 31, 2028) – 2-yard dumpster - $121.67/
month; 3-yard dumpster - $152.08/month; 4-yard dumpster - $182.50/month; 6-yard
dumpster - $243.33/month
   Year 6 (January 1, 2029-December 31, 2029) – 2-yard dumpster - $126.53/
month; 3-yard dumpster - $158.16/month; 4-yard dumpster - $189.80/month; 6-yard
dumpster - $253.06/month
   D.   Fees for bulky waste:
   Sofa      $20.00
   Hide-a-bed   $35.00
   Recliner   $10.00
   Small chair   $5.00
   Mattress   $10.00
   Box spring   $10.00
   Toilet      $7.50
   Storm door   $30.00
   E.   Administrative Fee. The City shall assess an administrative fee to
offset expenses associated with billing and administering the refuse and
recycling service within the City. The administrative fee is $1.00.
106.06 PAYMENT O F INVOICES.
All fees are due and payable under the same terms and conditions provided for
payment of a combined service account as contained in Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Solid waste collection service may be
discontinued in accordant with the provisions contained in Section
92.07 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.10 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account. The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter
are declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served
and there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with
the following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449)
106.07   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.09 of this Code of Ordinances, the customer served and any lessee or tenant
thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for solid waste collection
and disposal. Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the City
Administrator/Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner
as property taxes.
(Chapter 106 – Ord. 2023-04 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
 
110.01 Franchise Granted               110.07 Relocation of Company Facilities
110.02 Term                            110.08 Confidential Information
110.03 Governing Rules and Regulations 110.09 Force Majeure
110.04 Franchise Fee                   110.10 Hold Harmless
110.05 Construction and Maintenance of 110.11 Non Waiver
Company Facilities
110.06 Extension of Company Facilities 110.12 Repeal Conflicting Ordinances
 
110.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
The City (hereinafter referred to as “Grantor”) hereby grants a non-exclusive
franchise to Aquila, Inc, d/b/a Aquila Networks, a Delaware corporation,
(hereinafter called “Grantee”), its lessees, successors, and assigns. Grantee
is hereby granted the right, privilege, franchise, permission, and authority to
lay, construct, install, maintain, operate, and extend in, along, over, or
across the present and future streets, alleys, avenues, bridges, public rights-
of-way, and public places as are now within the present or future limits of
said Grantor, a natural gas distribution system and all facilities necessary
for the purpose of supplying natural gas or processed gas for all purposes to
the inhabitants of said Grantor and consumers in the vicinity thereof, and for
the distribution of natural gas from or through said Grantor to points beyond
the limits thereof. Such facilities shall include, but not be limited to, all
mains, services, pipes, conduits, and appliances necessary or convenient for
transmitting, transporting, distributing, and supplying natural gas for all
purposes for which it may be used, and to do all other things necessary and
proper in providing natural gas service to the inhabitants of Grantor and in
carrying on such business.
110.02   TERM.
The rights and privileges granted by this chapter shall remain in effect for a
period of 25 years† 5  from the effective date of the ordinance codified by
this chapter subject to cancellation at the end of the tenth year. Grantor,
through its City Administrator/Clerk, shall notify Grantee in writing at least
180 days before the expiration of the initial term that Grantor desires to not
renew the franchise.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 2005-07, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
5 City, was passed and adopted on September 26, 2005.
   
110.03   GOVERNING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
1.   This franchise is granted subject to all conditions, limitations, and
immunities now provided for, or as hereafter amended, and applicable to the
operations of a public utility, by State or federal law. The rates to be
charged by Grantee for service within the present or future corporate limits of
Grantor and the rules and regulations regarding the character, quality, and
standards of service to be furnished by Grantee shall be under the jurisdiction
and control of such regulatory body or bodies as may, from time to time, be
vested by law with authority and jurisdiction over the rates, regulations, and
quality and standards of service to be supplied by Grantee. Provided however,
should any judicial, regulatory, or legislative body, having proper
jurisdiction, take any action that precludes Grantee from recovering from its
customers any cost associated with services provided hereunder, then Grantee
and Grantor shall renegotiate the terms of this franchise in accordance with
the action taken, so as to allow Grantee to be made whole economically. In
determining the rights and duties of the Grantee, the terms of the franchise
ordinance codified in this chapter shall take precedence over any conflicting
terms or requirements contained in any other ordinance enacted by the Grantor.
2.   If an energy supplier is unable to furnish an adequate supply of energy
due to an emergency, an order or decision of a public regulatory body, or other
acts beyond the control of the Grantee, then the Grantee shall have the right
and authority to adopt reasonable rules and regulations limiting, curtailing,
or allocating extensions of service or supply of energy to any customers or
prospective customers, and withholding the supply of energy to new customers,
provided that such rules and regulations shall be uniform as applied to each
class of customers or prospective customers, and shall be non-discriminatory as
between communities receiving service from the Grantee.
110.04   FRANCHISE FEE.
1.   In exchange for the franchise granted herein, the Company shall collect
from its gas customers located within the corporate limits of the City (but not
from the City) and pay to the City an amount equal to five percent of gross
receipts the Company derives from the sale, distribution, or transportation of
gas delivered within the present or future limits of the City. Gross receipts
as used herein are revenues received from the sale, distribution, or
transportation of gas, after adjustment for the net write-off of uncollectible
accounts and corrections of bills theretofore rendered. The amount paid by the
Company shall be in lieu of, and the Company shall be exempt from, all other
fees, charges, taxes, or assessments which the City may impose for the
privilege of doing business within the City, including without limitation
excise taxes, occupation taxes, licensing fees, or right-of-way permit fees,
and in the event the City imposes any such fee, charge, tax or assessment, the
payment to be made by the Company in accordance with this section shall be
reduced in an amount equal to any such fee, charge, tax, or assessment imposed
upon the Company. Ad valorem property taxes imposed generally upon all real and
personal property within the City shall not be deemed to affect Company’s
obligations under this section.
2.   The Company shall report and pay any amount payable under this section on
a monthly basis. Such payment shall be made no more than 30 days following the
close of the period for which payment is due. Initial and final payments shall
be prorated for the portions of the periods at the beginning and end of the
term of this franchise.
3.   The Company shall list the franchise fee collected from customers as a
separate item on bills for utility service issued to its customers. If at any
time the Iowa Utility Board or other authority having proper jurisdiction
prohibits such recovery, the Company will no longer be obligated to collect and
pay the franchise fee. In addition, the Company may reduce the franchise
payable for gas delivered to a specific customer when such reduction is
required to attract or retain the business of that customer.
4.   If at any time the Iowa Utility Board or other authority having proper
jurisdiction allows the Company to choose whether to collect the franchise fee
from its customers, the Company will nevertheless continue to collect the
franchise fee and may pay same to the City, as provided for herein.
5.   The City shall provide copies of annexation ordinances to the Company on a
timely basis to ensure appropriate franchise fee collection from customers
within the City’s corporate limits. The Company’s obligation to collect and pay
the franchise fee from customers within an annexed area shall not commence
until the later of: (i) 60 days after the Company’s receipt of the annexation
ordinance pertaining to such area; or (ii) such time as is reasonably necessary
for the Company to identify the customers in the annexed area obligated to pay
the franchise fee.
6.   The City shall have access to and the right to examine, during normal
business hours, such of the Company’s books, receipts, files, records, and
documents as is necessary to verify the accuracy of payments due hereunder. If
it is determined that a mistake was made in the payment of any franchise fee
required hereunder, such mistake shall be corrected promptly upon discovery,
such that any under-payment by the Company shall be paid within 30 days of
recalculation of the amount due, and any over-payment by the Company shall be
deducted from the next payment of such franchise fee due by the Company to the
City. Upon giving 60-days’ notice to the Company, the City may increase the
amount of the franchise fee to be collected from the Company’s customers;
provided, however, that: (i) the City shall not increase the franchise fee more
than four times during the initial and any renewal term of the franchise; and
(ii) the City shall not increase the franchise fee to more than five percent of
gross receipts the Company derives from the sale, distribution, or
transportation of gas delivered within the present or future limits of the
City.
110.05   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
1.   Any pavements, sidewalks, or curbing taken up, and any and all excavations
made, shall be done in such a manner as to cause only such inconvenience to the
inhabitants of Grantor and to the general public as is reasonably necessary;
and repairs and replacements shall be made promptly by Grantee, leaving such
properties in as good a condition as existed immediately prior to excavation.
2.   Grantee agrees that for the term of this grant, it will maintain
facilities and equipment sufficient to meet the current and future energy
requirements of Grantor, its inhabitants and industries. While maintaining its
facilities and equipment, Grantee shall obtain permits as required by
ordinance, except that in emergency situations, Grantee shall take immediate
unilateral actions as it determines are necessary to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare; in which case, Grantee shall notify Grantor as soon as
reasonably possible.
3.   Grantor will give Grantee reasonable notice of plans for street
improvements where paving or resurfacing of a permanent nature is involved that
affect Grantee’s facilities. The notice shall contain the nature and character
of the improvements, the rights-of-way upon which the improvements are to be
made, the extent of the improvements and the time when the Grantor will start
the work, and, if more than one right-of-way is involved, the order in which
this work is to proceed. The notice shall be given to the Grantee a sufficient
length of time, considering seasonable working conditions, in advance of the
actual commencement of the work to permit the Grantee to make any additions,
alterations, or repairs to its facilities.
110.06   EXTENSION OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
Upon receipt and acceptance of a valid application for service, Grantee shall,
subject to its own economic feasibility criteria, make reasonable extensions of
its distribution facilities to serve customers located within the current or
future corporate limits of Grantor.
110.07   RELOCATION OF COMPANY FACILITIES.
If Grantor elects to change the grade of or otherwise alter any street, alley,
avenue, bridge, public right-of-way, or public place for a public purpose,
Grantee, upon reasonable notice from Grantor, shall remove and relocate its
facilities or equipment situated in the public rights-of-way, if such removal
is necessary to prevent interference and not merely for the convenience of the
Grantor, at the cost and expense of Grantee. If Grantor orders or requests
Grantee to relocate its facilities or equipment for the primary benefit of a
commercial or private project, or as a result of the initial request of a
commercial or private developer or other non-public entity, and such removal is
necessary to prevent interference and not merely for the convenience of the
Grantor or other right-of-way user, Grantee shall receive payment for the cost
of such relocation as a precondition to relocating its facilities or equipment.
Grantor shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works
projects so as not arbitrarily to cause Grantee unreasonable additional expense
in exercising its authority under this section. Grantor shall also provide a
reasonable alternative location for Grantee’s facilities. Grantor shall give
Grantee written notice of vacating of a public right-of-way. Vacating of a
public right-of-way shall not deprive the Grantee of its right to operate and
maintain existing facilities, until the reasonable cost of relocating the same
is first paid to the Grantee. Any person or corporation desiring to move a
building or other structure along, or to make any unusual use of any street,
alley, avenue, bridge, public right-of-way, or public place which shall
interfere with the facilities or equipment of the Grantee, shall first give
notice to the Grantor and the Grantee and a pay a sum sufficient to cover the
expense and damage incident to the moving of Grantee’s facilities and
equipment.
110.08   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
Grantor acknowledges that certain information it might request pursuant to this
franchise may be of a proprietary and confidential nature. If Grantee requests
that any information provided by Grantee to Grantor be kept confidential due to
such proprietary or commercial value, Grantor and its employees, agents, and
representatives shall maintain the confidentiality of that information, to the
extent allowed by law. If Grantor is requested or required by legal or
administrative process to disclose any such confidential information, Grantor
shall promptly notify Grantee of such request or requirement so that Grantee
may seek an appropriate protective order or other relief. Grantor shall use all
reasonable efforts to ensure that the confidentiality of Grantee’s confidential
information is maintained.
110.09   FORCE MAJEURE.
It shall not be a breach or default under this franchise if either party fails
to perform its obligations hereunder due to Force Majeure. Force Majeure shall
include, but not be limited to, the following: (i) physical events such as acts
of God, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, freezing, storms, floods,
washouts, explosions, breakage or accident, or necessity of repairs to
machinery, equipment, or distribution or transmission lines; (ii) acts of
others such as strikes, work-force stoppages, riots, sabotage, insurrections,
or wars; (iii) governmental actions such as necessity for compliance with any
court order, law, statute, ordinance, executive order, or regulation
promulgated by a governmental authority having jurisdiction; and (iv) any other
causes, whether of the kind herein enumerated or otherwise not reasonably
within the control of the affected party to prevent or overcome. Each party
shall make reasonable efforts to avoid Force Majeure and to resolve such event
as promptly as reasonably possible once it occurs in order to resume
performance; provided, however, that this provision shall not obligate a party
to settle any labor strike.
110.10   HOLD HARMLESS.
Grantee, during the term of this franchise, agrees to save harmless Grantor
from and against all claims, demands, losses, and expenses arising directly out
of the negligence of Grantee, its employees or agents, in the constructing,
operating, and maintaining of distribution and transmission facilities or
appliances of Grantee; provided, however, that Grantee need not save harmless
Grantor from claims, demands, losses, and expenses arising out of the
negligence of Grantor, its employees, or agents.
110.11   NON WAIVER.
Any waiver of any obligation or default under this franchise shall not be
construed as a waiver of any future defaults, whether of like or different
character.
110.12   REPEAL CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
This chapter, when accepted by Grantee, shall constitute the entire agreement
between the Grantor and the Grantee relating to this franchise and the same
shall supersede all prior ordinances pertaining to this franchise agreement,
and any terms and conditions of such prior ordinances or parts of ordinances in
conflict herewith are hereby repealed. Ordinance No. 1980-1 of the City is
hereby repealed as of the effective date hereof.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
111.01 Franchise Granted            111.07 Applicable Regulations
111.02 Placement of Facilities      111.08 Uninterrupted Service
111.03 Excavations                  111.09 Franchise Fee
111.04 Construction and Maintenance 111.10 Term of Franchise
111.05 Utility Easements            111.11 Entire Agreement
111.06 Pruning and Vegetation
 
111.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to Interstate Power and Light Company, hereinafter
referred to as the “Company,” its successors and assigns, the right and non-
exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, reconstruct, erect, maintain and
operate in the City, works and plants for the manufacture and generation of
electricity and a distribution system for electric light, heat and power and
the right to erect and maintain the necessary poles, lines, wires, conduits and
other appliances for the distribution of electric current along, under and upon
the streets, alleys and public places in the said City to supply individuals,
corporations, communities, and municipalities both inside and outside of said
City with electric light, heat and power for the period of 25 years with a
limited right of cancellation as stipulated in Section
111.10 of this agreement; also the right of eminent domain as provided in
Section 364.2 of the Code of Iowa. † 6
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 2021-01, adopting a telephone franchise for the
6 City, was passed and adopted on August 23, 2021.
   
111.02   PLACEMENT OF FACILITIES.
The poles, lines, wires, circuits, and other appliances shall be placed and
maintained so as not to unnecessarily interfere with the travel on said
streets, alleys, and public places in said City nor unnecessarily interfere
with the proper use of the same, including ordinary drainage, or with the
sewers, underground pipe and other property of the City. Notwithstanding any
tariff’s filed with State regulators, and in consideration for this franchise,
the said Company, its successors and assigns shall defend, indemnify and hold
the City free and harmless from all damages to the extent arising from the
negligent acts or omissions of the Company in the erection, use or maintenance
of said system.
111.03   EXCAVATIONS.
In making any excavations in any street, alley, or public place, Company, its
successors and assigns, shall protect the site while work is in progress by
guards, barriers or signals, shall not unnecessarily obstruct the use of the
streets, and shall back fill all openings in such manner as to prevent settling
or depressions in surface, pavement or sidewalk of such excavations with same
materials, and shall replace surface, pavement or sidewalk of such excavation
with same materials, restoring the condition as nearly as practical and if
defects are caused shall repair the same within reasonable time of completion
of the work. The Company shall not be required to restore or modify public
right-of-way, sidewalks, or other areas in or adjacent to the Company project
to a condition superior to its immediate previously existing condition.
111.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
The Company shall, at its cost, locate and relocate its existing facilities or
equipment in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in such
a manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley or any public improvement thereof, in or about any such street
or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such
improvement. If the City requires the Company to relocate facilities in the
public right-of-way that have been relocated at Company expense at the
direction of the City during the previous five years, the reasonable costs of
such relocation will be paid by the City. If the City orders or requests the
Company to relocate its existing facilities or equipment for any reason other
than as specified above, or as the result of the initial request for a
commercial, private or other non-public development, the Company shall receive
payment for the cost of such relocation as a precondition to City for a
commercial, private, or other non-public development, the requesting entity
shall pay the Company in advance for the cost of relocating such facilities. If
the request to relocate existing Company facilities or equipment is made to the
City for a commercial, private, or other non-public development, the requesting
entity shall pay the Company in advance for the cost of relocating such
facilities. The City shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its
public works projects so as not arbitrarily to cause the Company unreasonable
additional expense in exercising its authority under this section. The City
shall also provide a reasonable alternative location for the Company’s
facilities as part of its relocation request.
111.05   UTILITY EASEMENTS.
Prior to the City abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley, or public
ground where the Company has electric facilities, the City shall grant the
Company a utility easement for said facilities. If the City does not grant the
Company a utility easement for said facilities prior to abandoning or vacating
a street, avenue, alley or public place, the City shall at its cost and expense
obtain easements for existing Company facilities.
111.06   PRUNING AND VEGETATION.
The Company is authorized and empowered to prune or remove at Company expense
any tree extending into any street, alley or public grounds to maintain
electric reliability, safety, to restore utility service and to prevent limbs,
branches or trunks from interfering with the wires and facilities of the
Company. The pruning and removal of trees shall be performed in accordance with
Company’s then current line clearance vegetation plan as filed and approved by
the Iowa Utilities Board, as well as all applicable codes and standards
referenced therein.
111.07   APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish electric energy in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board and the
Company’s tariffs. The Company will maintain compliance with Iowa Utilities
Board regulatory standards for reliability.
111.08   UNINTERRUPTED SERVICE.
Service to be rendered by the Company under this franchise shall be continuous
unless prevented from doing so by fire, acts of God, unavoidable accidents or
casualties, or reasonable interruptions necessary to properly service the
Company’s equipment, and in such event service shall be resumed as quickly as
is reasonably possible.
111.09   FRANCHISE FEE.
There is hereby imposed, at this time, a franchise fee of one percent upon the
gross revenue generated from sales of electricity by the Company within the
corporate limits of the City. The City reserves the right, at the City’s
discretion, to amend or revoke the franchise fee as provided by Iowa law. The
Company shall begin collecting the franchise fee upon receipt of written
approval of the required tax rider tariff from the Iowa Utilities Board.
1.   The amount of the franchise fee shall be shown separately on the utility
bill to each customer. The Company shall remit franchise fee receipts to the
City no more frequently than on or before the last business day of the month
following each calendar year quarter.
2.   The City shall provide to the Company’s Iowa franchise manager, by
certified mail, copies of annexation ordinances and all new property addresses
to which the franchise fee will be applied. The Company shall commence
collecting the franchise fee in the annexed areas 60 days thereafter.
3.   The Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or
refund any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted
to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall
reimburse the Company for the reasonable expenses incurred by the Company to
provide such data or information.
111.10   TERM OF FRANCHISE.
The term of the franchise granted by this chapter and the rights granted
thereunder shall continue for the period of 25 years from and after written
acceptance by the Company, except that the City may cancel this franchise on
the 15th anniversary of the Date of this franchise by notifying Company in
writing of its desire to do so, said notification to be given within 60 days of
the 15th anniversary of this franchise. If Company is not notified of the
cancellation by the 15th anniversary, then this franchise shall continue
without cancellation until the 25th year. The acceptance shall be filed with
the City Clerk within 90 days from passage of this chapter.
111.11   ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
This chapter sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be supplemented, superseded, modified, or otherwise amended without the written
approval and acceptance of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no
event shall the City enact or maintain any Ordinance or place any limitations,
either operationally or through the assessment of fees other than franchise
fees or those approved and accepted by the Company within this chapter, that
create additional burdens upon the Company, or which delay utility operations.
CHAPTER 112
TELEPHONE FRANCHISE
 
112.01 Franchise Granted 112.03 Construction
112.02 Appurtenances     112.04 Indemnification of City
 
112.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
In consideration of the benefits to the City and the public thereof to be
derived from the installation and operation of a telephone and other
telecommunications system in the City, the right, power, privilege, and
authority are hereby granted to the Alpine Communications L.C., its successors,
lessees, and assigns (herein designated “Grantee”) to construct, install,
lease, operate, and maintain a telephone and other telecommunications system
for 25 years from and after the final passage, approval, publication, and
acceptance by the Grantee of the ordinance codified in this chapter,† 7  and to
use the streets, avenues, alleys, bridges, parks, highways, and public places
of the City for the purpose of constructing, installing, erecting, laying down,
and maintaining poles, wires, lines, services, appliances, and equipment
necessary or suitable for the operation of said system in the City.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 1997-3, adopting a telephone franchise for the
7 City, was passed and adopted on September 22, 1997.
   
112.02   APPURTENANCES.
All poles, wires, lines, appliances, and equipment installed or maintained
under this chapter shall be so located as to not obstruct or interfere with any
sewers, water pipes, drains, poles, or other structures heretofore installed.
In performing any work in connection with its poles, wires, lines, or
appliances, the Grantee, insofar as practicable, shall avoid interference with
the use of any street, alley, bridge, or public place, and wherever the surface
of any street or alley is disturbed in the performance of such work, Grantee,
at its own expense, shall replace such service in condition equally as good as
before the commencement of such work. In the event the City lawfully changes
the grade of any streets, alleys, or public places, the Grantee, at its own
expense, shall relocate its poles, lines, or appurtenances wherever necessary
by reason of said change of grade. In the event the City undertakes any
excavation or work which affects any of Grantee’s poles, wires, lines, and
equipment, the Grantee shall remove or protect said poles, wires, lines, and
equipment at its own expense upon being notified by the City of said proposed
excavation or work.
112.03   CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of the system hereby authorized, the Grantee shall utilize
good and sufficient materials and equipment so that said system shall be in all
respects modern and conform to approved industry standards.
112.04   INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY.
The Grantee shall save harmless and indemnify the City from and against all
loss, damage, or expense arising from injuries to persons or damage to property
due to the negligence of the Grantee, its agents, or employees in the
construction, installation, maintenance, or operation of said system.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale, possess,
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a retail alcohol license, the Clerk may
forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an investigation and
submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred in the
application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine if they
conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve an
application for a license for any premises that does not conform to the
applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
(Section 120.03 – Ord. 2022-08 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a retail alcohol
license, shall endorse its approval or disapproval on the application, and
shall forward the application with the necessary fee and bond, if required, to
the Alcoholic Beverages Division.    
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32(2))
(Section 120.04 – Ord. 2022-08 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person holding a retail alcohol license and the person’s agents or employees
shall not do any of the following:
1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(1))
2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and
6:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(b))
3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona fide
credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its members,
to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to retail sales
by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(c))
4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(f))
5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the mixing
or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any other
beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(i))
6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(a))
7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(j))
8.   Keep on premises covered by a retail alcohol license any alcoholic liquor
in any container except the original package purchased from the Alcoholic
Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except mixed drinks
or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption. However, mixed
drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the premises and are not for immediate
consumption may be consumed on the licensed premises, subject to rules adopted
by the Alcoholic Beverages Division.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(d))
9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or receptacle
used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or adulterate, by the
addition of any substance, the contents or remaining contents of an original
package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly possess any original
package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(e))
10.   Allow any person other than the licensee or employees of the licensee to
use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic liquor in any bottle or
other container that is designed for the transporting of such beverages, except
as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(2)(g))
11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49(21))
(Section 120.05 – Ord. 2022-08 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
120.06   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa. (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a retail alcohol license, as
specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical or
mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation of
a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under the
age of 21.
(Section 120.06 – Ord. 2022-08 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco,
or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and irrespective
of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored, adulterated, or mixed
with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper or cover made of paper
or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be construed to include
cigars.
3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes, or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement, or
storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of the
product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or employee of
the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access location.
6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars; cheroots;
stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other
smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other
chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings
of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such manner as to
be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for both chewing
and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee shall be filed with the City Administrator/Clerk. Renewal
applications shall be filed at least five days prior to the last regular
meeting of the Council in June. If a renewal application is not timely filed,
and a special Council meeting is called to act on the application, the costs of
such special meeting shall be paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:    FEE:
July, August, or September     $ 75.00
October, November, or December $ 56.25
January, February, or March    $ 37.50
April, May, or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The City Administrator/Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any
application for a permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department
of Commerce within 30 days of issuance of a permit.
121.06   REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty in
the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under this
subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period of
14 days.
2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall be
assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s permit
shall be revoked.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer
by mailing a copy of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the
application for a permit. The notice shall state the reason for the
contemplated action and the time and place at which the retailer may appear and
be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22, and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The City Administrator/Clerk shall report the revocation or
suspension of a retail permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the
Department of Commerce within 30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
HOUSE MOVERS
 
122.01 House Mover Defined 122.07 Public Safety
122.02 Permit Required     122.08 Time Limit
122.03 Application         122.09 Removal by City
122.04 Bond Required       122.10 Protect Pavement
122.05 Insurance Required  122.11 Overhead Wires
122.06 Permit Issued
 
122.01   HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or similar
structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the building or
structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks, dollies, or
any other specialized moving equipment.
122.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building,
or similar structure to be moved. Buildings of less than 100 square feet are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
122.03   APPLICATION.
Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the City
Administrator/Clerk. The application shall include:
1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the Police Chief, Street
Superintendent, and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the
shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
122.04   BOND REQUIRED.
The applicant shall post with the City Administrator/Clerk a penal bond in the
minimum sum of $5,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such
bonds in the State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any
damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of moving the building or structure.
122.05   INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration of
the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
122.06   PERMIT ISSUED.
Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate, and
payment of the required fee, the City Administrator/Clerk shall issue a permit.
122.07   PUBLIC SAFETY.
At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag persons
at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to the
sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind, and ahead of the
building or structure.
122.08   TIME LIMIT.
No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to remain
upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours without
having first secured the written approval of the City.
122.09   REMOVAL BY CITY.
In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section
122.08, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and assess
the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
122.10   PROTECT PAVEMENT.
It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
122.11   OVERHEAD WIRES.
The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone, cable
television, and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 123
TRANSIENT FOOD VENDOR
 
123.01 Definitions           123.05 Transient Food Vendor Locations
123.02 Transient Food Vendor 123.06 Fees
Registration Required
123.03 Transient Food Vendor 123.07 Failure to Register
Registration Form
123.04 Transient Food Vendor
Registration Fees
 
123.01   DEFINITIONS.
1.   Prepared food – food prepared and served for individual portion service
intended for consumption.
2.   Transient food vendor – any food vendor who sets up temporarily in a
location (public or private) to sell prepared food to the public.
3.   Sponsor – any business with a store front hosting a transient food vendor.
4.   Transient food vendor district – the street right-of-way of South Main
Street between Boardman Street SW and Mechanic Street SW.
123.02   TRANSIENT FOOD VENDOR REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the sale of prepared food as a
transient food vendor without first registering with the City of Elkader on a
form provided by the City.
1.   A transient food vendor registration is required each time a vendor
operates in Elkader.
2.   Each transient food vendor unit shall be registered separately.
Registration is not transferable.
3.   All transient food vendors must register. Transient food vendors operating
in a City park during an approved event sponsored by a registered tax exempt or
not-for-profit organization must register, however no fee will be required.
123.03   TRANSIENT FOOD VENDOR REGISTRATION FORM.
1.   Filing. Registration forms shall be filed with the City Administrator/
Clerk. No registration form shall be accepted for filing and processing unless
it conforms to the requirements of this chapter and is accompanied by the
required fees as set pursuant to Section
123.04.
2.   Timely Submittal. Unless otherwise provided herein, registration must be
submitted not less than ten (10) calendar days prior to the proposed start date
of the transient food vendor activities. The City reserves the right to reject
any registration forms that have not been fully completed and timely submitted.
3.   Registration Form Contents. Registration shall be made on a form provided
by the City and shall include:
   A.   Full name of the owner.
   B.   Owner’s contact information including mailing address, phone numbers
and e-mail address.
   C.   Full name of the onsite operator.
   D.   Onsite operator’s phone number.
   E.   Food license number.
   F.   Location of operation.
   G.   Dates of operation.
   H.   Description of operation.
   I.   Sales tax permit number.
   J.   Acknowledgement of proper sales tax distribution.
   K.   Sponsor name (if applicable).
   L.   Acknowledgement of access to restroom.
4.   Term. All registrations are for a period of 48 hours or less. If the
vendor requires a registration that exceeds 48 hours they must receive approval
from the City Administrator/Clerk for such a registration. Registrations that
exceed 48 hours may incur more fees as outlined in Section
123.04 if they are utilizing public parking.
5.   Fraudulent Registration. Any registrant that provides intentionally false
or misleading information on a registration form will be subject to an
additional fee as set by resolution of the City Council. The registrant will be
prohibited from registering as a transient food vendor for up to one year at
the discretion of the City Administrator/Clerk. In the event of a prohibition
by the City Administrator/Clerk, the City Administrator/Clerk shall notify the
transient food vendor owner/operator in writing, by personal delivery or
certified mail, of the prohibition and the reasons for the prohibition. The
notification will also inform the owner of their right to appeal by filing a
written appeal and delivering same to the City Administrator/Clerk’s office
within seven (7) days of their receipt of said notice. Upon receipt of a timely
appeal, a hearing shall be set before the City Council. The City Council shall
consider the appeal during an open meeting within fourteen (14) days of
receipt. The decision of the City Council shall be final.
123.04   TRANSIENT FOOD VENDOR REGISTRATION FEES.
All fees associated with the registration of a transient food vendor will be
set by resolution of the City Council and may be amended from time to time in
the sole discretion of the City Council.
123.05   TRANSIENT FOOD VENDOR LOCATIONS.
1.   Transient Food Vendors On Public Property.
   A.   Any registered transient food vendor may set up in the parking area of
a public street provided they are sponsored by a business that operates in a
location that is adjacent to the setup location.
   B.   Any registered transient food vendor may occupy a maximum of two
diagonal parking spots or one parallel parking spot.
   C.   Any registered transient food vendor utilizing public parking space is
allowed to maintain their parked location for up to 48 hours provided the
public street is open during that period, and a snow emergency has not been
declared.
   D.   Registered transient food vendors may also park in the transient food
vendor district.
2.   Rules of Operation.
   A.   Transient food vendors must not block street access or sidewalk access.
Reasonable precautions must be made to make sure that the sidewalk is safe and
accessible if the utilities of the sponsoring business are used.
   B.   Transient food vendors must provide an adequately sized waste
receptacle for their patrons. They must carry this trash out with them or
dispose of it with the sponsor business. The receptacle may be placed adjacent
to the transient food vendor on the street or on the sidewalk but shall not be
placed in a manner that obstructs vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   C.   Transient food vendors must be able to offer access to a functioning
restroom within walking distance. The restroom may be located inside of any
business that has sponsored the transient food vendor and must be available at
all times that the transient food vendor is actively open for service.
   D.   Transient food vendors are prohibited from the use of any signage but
for signage attached to the food truck/cart or located on the premises. No off-
premise signage is permitted.
   E.   If the transient food vendor utilizes public parking for operation,
ordering and serving of food must be towards the adjacent sidewalk or in the
case of diagonal parking, to the adjacent parking space that is reserved as
part of the registration. Operators are responsible for making sure that
patrons are not blocking the sidewalk, traveled portion of the street, or other
parking stalls not reserved for transient food vendor operations while
ordering, waiting to order, or waiting to be served. When serving to the
sidewalk, the line must proceed from the service window directly to the
sidewalk and then form a single file line adjacent to the curb line. When
serving to an adjacent reserved parking stall, the line must proceed from the
service window in a single file line directly towards the sidewalk and then
continue in a single file line along the curb line extending across the front
of the stall in which the transient food vendor is parked. The line may not
form on the roadway or any parking space that is not part of the registration
nor may it impede the normal flow of traffic on the sidewalk.
   F.   If a generator is used no exhaust can be directed towards a sidewalk or
public walkway, and the generator must not produce noise that can be heard from
a block away.
   G.   Awnings may extend over the sidewalk so long as they do not impede the
normal use of the sidewalk, do not extend over more than one-half of the
sidewalk and clear the surface of the sidewalk by at least seven feet (7’).
Awnings may extend over parking stalls that are reserved as part of the
registration.
   H.   Improper Operation. Any registrant that operates in a manner that is
inconsistent with this chapter or other laws, City or State, shall be assessed
a fee, set by resolution of the City Council, and ordered to cease operations
until operating in full compliance with all applicable City and State Codes and
regulations.
   I.   No transient food vendor may use or employ any device that plays or
creates audible music or noise with the exception of a simple microphone/device
used to announce that orders are ready to be picked up.
3.   Registration Denial. The City Administrator/Clerk will not approve any
registration from a transient food vendors for one year if the vendor has
failed to comply with any applicable City or State Code related to the
operation as a transient food vendor. The vendor will be notified in writing,
by personal delivery or certified mail, of the denial of registration and the
reasons for this denial. Vendors will have the right to appeal by filing a
written appeal and delivering same to the City Administrator/Clerk within seven
(7) days of their receipt of said denial. Upon receipt of a timely appeal, a
hearing shall be set before the City Council. The City Council shall consider
the appeal during an open meeting within fourteen (14) days of receipt. The
decision of the City Council shall be final.
123.06   FEES.
Registered transient food vendors who operate in the transient food vendor
district, must pay a registration fee, as established by resolution, per
registration and an additional fee per day for every day over 48 hours.
Registered transient food vendors who operate in public parking outside of the
transient food vendor district must pay a fee, as established by resolution,
per registration and an additional fee per day over 48 hours.
Registered transient food vendors who operate on private property, with consent
of the property owner, will not be assessed any fee.
123.07   FAILURE TO REGISTER.
Transient food vendors that operate without first registering will be given an
opportunity to finalize the registration process on site. If registration
cannot be completed on-site the transient food vendor owner/operator will be
directed to cease operations and move from the public right-of-way until such
time as their registration has been completed and approved.
Any registration that is not submitted and approved prior to the commencement
of operations, a “delinquent registration,” will incur an additional delinquent
registration fee, set by Council resolution, and an additional fee for a second
offense in addition to the standard registration fees. Upon a third offense of
delinquent registration the vendor will be required to cease operations, move
from the public right-of-way, and will not be allowed to register for one (1)
calendar year from the date of the third offense.
The City Administrator/Clerk, or designed, is authorized to enforce the terms
of this provision. Transient food vendors who are found to be operating without
an approved registration on City property or right-of-way who do not rectify
the registration as allowed herein shall move all of their property from City
property and/or right-of-way immediately or be subject to having their property
towed or otherwise removed, the costs associated therewith to be assessed
against and the responsibility of the owner.
(Ch. 123 – Ord. 2022-01 – Apr. 22 Supp.)
 
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.09 Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.04 Playing In                 135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling On Barricaded    135.12 Dumping of Snow
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.07 Washing Vehicles           135.14 Mailboxes
 
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy, or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard, or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or alley
in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass, or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal, or vehicle. This includes material used for construction on private
property. In addition to a municipal infraction, in the event of a violation of
this section, the City may remove any material and assess the cost to the
property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer, or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale, or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking, or
alley except in accordance with the following:
1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first obtaining
a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with the City
and shall contain the following:
   A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
   B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is to
be made;
   C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
   D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner that
will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the uninterrupted
passage of water along the gutter on the street.
3.   Barricades, Fencing, and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing, and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing, or warning lights shall be paid to
the City by the permit holder/property owner.
4.   Bond Required. The applicant shall post with the City a penal bond in the
minimum sum of $1,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such
bonds in the State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any
damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of administration of this section. In lieu
of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $1,000.00 may be filed with the City.
5.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
   A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
6.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
7.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City. Backfill
shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved street or
alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and approved by the
City. The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City with notice at
least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is desired.
8.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder/property owner.
9.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
10.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
11.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application and filing of bond and
insurance certificate, a permit shall be issued. A separate permit shall be
required for each excavation.
12.   Permit Exemption. Utility companies are exempt from the permit
application requirement of this section. They shall, however, comply with all
other pertinent provisions.
135.10   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 8
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section
8 136.04 relating to property owner’s responsibility for maintenance of
  sidewalks.
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be thrown,
pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the Business District it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
135.14   MAILBOXES.
In order to prevent congestion in the streets, preserve and enhance the beauty
of the City, protect and preserve the value of property, and promote the
general welfare of the City, the following regulations shall apply to the
installation, erection and use of mailboxes within the City limits:
1.   The City shall not be responsible for maintenance of said boxes or for
snow removal around them.
2.   Boxes shall not be set closer than 25 feet to an intersection, or closer
than 10 feet from an alley or driveway approach. Mailboxes may be placed in the
street right-of-way provided that the support thereof is at least 16 inches
behind the curb or the edge of the traveled way, and no portion of the box or
support shall extend into the traveled way. The face of the box shall be even
with the back of the curb. The minimum clearance distance from the street
surface to the bottom of the mailbox or support shall be 46 inches.
3.   Mailboxes shall not obstruct a paved sidewalk for pedestrians, and where
the roadway has a shoulder to be maintained, said boxes and supports shall be
placed so as not to interfere with road maintenance or snow removal.
4.   All approaches to the mailboxes shall be maintained by the individual
owners of the boxes at said approaches, and the City shall not be responsible
for surfacing, grading, or maintaining said approaches.
5.   The City assumes no risk and shall have no liability for damage to any
mailboxes as a result of street maintenance or snow removal if said boxes are
not erected and placed as required by this section.
6.   If snow removal near a mailbox cannot be satisfactorily accomplished
during snow removal operations, it shall be the duty of the property owner to
remove the snow obstruction near such owner’s mailbox structure.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.12 Failure to Repair or
                                             Barricade
136.02 Definitions                           136.13 Interference with Sidewalk
                                             Improvements
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.14 Awnings
Accumulations
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.15 Encroaching Steps
Maintenance
136.05 Repairing Defective Sidewalks         136.16 Openings and Enclosures
136.06 City May Order Repairs                136.17 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.07 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.18 Defacing
136.08 Permit Required for Construction or   136.19 Debris on Sidewalks
Removal
136.09 Inspection of Private Work; Remedies  136.20 Merchandise Display
136.10 Sidewalk Standards                    136.21 Sales Stands
136.11 Barricades and Warning Lights
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
2.   “Defective sidewalk” means any public sidewalk exhibiting one or more of
the following characteristics:
   A.   Vertical separations equal to three-fourths inch or more.
   B.   Horizontal separations equal to one inch or more.
   C.   Holes or depressions equal to three-fourths inch or more and at least
four inches in diameter.
   D.   Spalling over 50 percent of a single square of the sidewalk with one or
more depressions equal to one-half inch or more.
   E.   Spalling over less than 50 percent of a single square of the sidewalk
with one or more depressions equal to three-fourths inch or more.
   F.   A single square of sidewalk cracked in such a manner that no part
thereof has a piece greater than one square foot.
   G.   A sidewalk with any part thereof missing to the full depth.
   H.   A change from the design or construction grade equal to or greater than
three-fourths inch per foot.
3.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
4.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete is
placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
5.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
6.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
7.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
8.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling, or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
9.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing the
surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly
from sidewalks. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or accumulations
within a reasonable time, the City may do so and assess the costs against the
property owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove
snow, ice, and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b and e])
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition
any sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines or,
in the absence of a curb, any sidewalk between the property line and that
portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to maintain
the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
136.05   REPAIRING DEFECTIVE SIDEWALKS.
It is the duty of the abutting proper owner at any time or upon receipt of 30-
days’ notice from the City to repair, replace or reconstruct, or cause to be
repaired, replaced or reconstructed, all broken or defective sidewalks in the
street right-of-way abutting said owner’s property. If, upon the expiration of
30 days as provided in said notice, the required work has not been done or is
not in the process of completion, the officer authorized by the Council may
proceed to repair, replace or reconstruct said sidewalk or cause the same to be
repaired, replaced or reconstructed. There shall be returned to the Council an
itemized and verified statement of expenditures of material and of the labor
used in doing such work and of the location where the work was performed. The
cost thereof shall be assessed to the property fronting thereon.
136.06   CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d and e])
136.07   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.08   PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION OR REMOVAL.
No person shall make any sidewalk improvements, whether ordered by the Council
or not, unless such person obtains a permit from City Hall, and such person
shall agree in writing that he or she will, in making the sidewalk
improvements, comply with this Code of Ordinances and with the specifications
for sidewalks approved by the Council and on file in City Hall and that the
work shall be done under the direction and supervision of the Public Works
Director and subject to the approval of that officer. Said persons also agree
to hold the City free from all liability for damages on account of injuries
received by anyone through the negligence of such person or any agents or
employees in making the sidewalk improvements or by reason of such person’s
failure to properly guard the premises. All such permits shall be issued and a
copy thereof, together with the written agreement referred to above, shall be
filed and preserved in City Hall. Before granting any permit to make sidewalk
improvements, the Public Works Director shall determine the propriety of the
same and shall state in all permits issued when the work is to be commenced and
when the sidewalk work is to be completed. The time of completion for the
sidewalk improvements may be extended by the Public Works Director when in the
judgment of such official it is deemed necessary. All permits for Council-
ordered sidewalk improvements shall be issued in compliance with the resolution
of the Council ordering the improvements. All permits for sidewalk improvements
not ordered by resolution of the Council shall be issued in compliance with
this chapter. The Public Works Director may withhold the issuance of any permit
for any sidewalk improvements for a sufficient period to determine the
necessity for the proposed improvements or when weather conditions will
adversely affect the sidewalk improvements.
136.09   INSPECTION OF PRIVATE WORK; REMEDIES.
All sidewalk improvements shall be done under the direction and supervision of
the Public Works Director and subject to the inspection and approval of the
Public Works Director. Whenever any sidewalk improvements are made which do not
conform to the provisions of this chapter and with the specifications herein
referred to, or where any sidewalk improvements are made without obtaining a
permit as required by this chapter, or the work is not performed within the
time stated in the permit, the Public Works Director shall serve upon the
property owner or agent and upon the contractor doing the work a notice to
obtain a permit, if not already obtained, or, if the sidewalk is in the course
of construction, to stop until a permit is obtained or work is corrected in
compliance with the specifications. If the sidewalk work has been completed,
the owner shall obtain a permit immediately and perform any needed sidewalk
improvement within five (5) days from the receipt of said permit, in the proper
manner and of proper materials as required by the specifications herein
referred to. In case any owner fails to do so, the officer authorized by the
Council shall cause the sidewalk to be constructed, reconstructed or repaired
in a proper manner and of proper materials. There shall be returned to the
Council an itemized and verified statement of expenditures of material and of
the labor used in doing such work, and the location of the work that was
performed. The cost thereof shall be assessed to the property fronting thereon.
136.10   SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the construction
and repair of sidewalks.
2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-drained
soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact, clean,
coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage is to be
determined by the City.
4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
5.   Length, Width and Depth. Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
   A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four inches
thick, and each section shall be no more than four feet in length.
   B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to the
curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
   C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge (edge
nearest the abutting private property) one foot from the property line, unless
the Council establishes a different distance due to special circumstances.
7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the curb.
10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood float
finish.
11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a street,
road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area
shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street, road, or
highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built or
reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed at
each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road. Curb
ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall be
constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.11   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.12   FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.13   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar, or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove, or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.14   AWNINGS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any awning over any sidewalk
unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least eight feet above the
surface of the sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of duck, canvas or
other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets securely fastened
to the building, without any posts or other device that will obstruct the
sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of pedestrians.
136.15   ENCROACHING STEPS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.16   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
It is unlawful for a person to:
1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on any
sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the public.
3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings on
or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.17   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.18   DEFACING.
It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing on
any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.19   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.20   MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case shall
more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for such
purposes.
136.21   SALES STANDS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council. The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of property
abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] and 364.7[3])
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
44            September 28, 1899
45            November 16, 1899
80            July 1, 1915
86            October 19, 1922
87            October 19, 1922
97            March 4, 1926
100           March 7, 1929
119           March 20, 1947
121           July 8, 1948
131           March 20, 1950
143           November 9, 1959
150           June 11, 1962
161           October 12, 1964
164           July 2, 1965
1982-3        July 14, 1982
Res. 2001-01  January 8, 2001
2018-03       August 27, 2018
2021-02       October 25, 2021
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Purpose and Definition 138.03 Record Maintained
138.02 Established Grades
 
138.01   PURPOSE AND DEFINITION.
This chapter is designed to meet the requirements of the Code of Iowa for the
establishment of street grades. As used herein, “grade” means the longitudinal
reference lines, as established by ordinance of the Council, which designate
the elevation at which a street or sidewalk is to be built.
138.02   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
The grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.03   RECORD MAINTAINED.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades
and furnish information concerning such grades upon request.
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
42            July 24, 1899      134           March 27, 1950
53            July 20, 1903      1971-4        November 22, 1991
54            July 20, 1903
55            September 4, 1903
56            June 17, 1904
58            January 2, 1905
59            September 27, 1905
65            September 28, 1907
67            August 19, 1909
72            August 3, 1911
73            September 7, 1911
83            August 23, 1916
90            August 11, 1924
112           October 23, 1941
114           February 7, 1946
115           April 17, 1946
116           September 5, 1946
117           September 5, 1946
126           June 6, 1949
128           June 13, 1949
132           March 27, 1950
133           March 27, 1950
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are natural
extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the existing
street.
2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the City
Administrator/Clerk shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County
Auditor, and County Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section 139.04 of the
Code of Ordinances of Elkader, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the City Administrator/Clerk.
CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES
 
140.01 Exercise of Police Power 140.04 Access Controls Imposed
140.02 Definition               140.05 Unlawful Use of Controlled Access
                                Facility
140.03 Right of Access Limited  140.06 Parking Restricted
 
140.01   EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City under
Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace, health,
and safety and for the promotion of the general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1)
140.02   DEFINITION.
The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street especially
designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of
abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled
right or easement of access, light, air, or view by reason of the fact that
their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for any other
reason.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2)
140.03   RIGHT OF ACCESS LIMITED.
No person has any right of ingress or egress to or from abutting lands onto or
across any controlled access facility, except at such designated points at
which access is permitted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
140.04   ACCESS CONTROLS IMPOSED.
There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities within the
City, described as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3)
1.   Project No. FN-56-2(2)—21-22. On the Primary Road System extension
improvement, Project No. FN-56-2(2)—21-22, Primary Road No. Iowa 56 within the
City, described as follows:
Beginning at the west corporation line on Primary Road Iowa 56, thence easterly
and southeasterly along Primary Road Extension Iowa 56 to Bridge Street, thence
northeasterly on Bridge Street to First Street
regulating access to and from Primary Road Iowa 56 and the abutting properties
along said highway all in accordance with the plans for such improvement
identified as Project No. FN-56-2(2)—21-22 on file in the office of the City
Administrator/Clerk.
140.05   UNLAWFUL USE OF CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITY.
It is unlawful for any person to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3 and 321.366)
1.   Cross Dividing Line. Drive a vehicle over, upon, or across any curb,
central dividing section, or other separation or dividing line on such
controlled access facilities.
2.   Turns. Make a left turn or a semicircular or U-turn except through an
opening provided for that purpose in the dividing curb section, separation, or
line.
3.   Use of Lanes. Drive any vehicle except in the proper lane provided for
that purpose and in the proper direction and to the right of the central
dividing curb, separation, section, or line.
4.   Enter Facility. Drive any vehicle into the controlled access facility from
a local service road except through an opening provided for that purpose in the
dividing curb or dividing section or dividing line that separates such service
road from the controlled access facility property.
140.06   PARKING RESTRICTED.
The parking of vehicles on or along controlled access facilities is restricted
as follows:
1.   Minor Street Approaches. Parking shall be prohibited on all minor street
approaches for a distance of 35 feet in advance of the stop sign.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01 Enforcement Officer          145.05 Conduct of Hearing
145.02 General Definition of Unsafe 145.06 Posting of Signs
145.03 Unsafe Building              145.07 Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                    Infraction
145.04 Notice to Owner              145.08 Costs
 
145.01   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
The City Administrator/Clerk is responsible for the enforcement of this
chapter.
145.02   GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose of this
chapter, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 and 364.12[3a])
145.03   UNSAFE BUILDING.
“Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of the
following criteria:
1.   Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, because of: (i) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; (ii) faulty
construction; (iii) the removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building; (iv) the
deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or (v) any other cause,
is likely to partially or completely collapse.
2.   Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or
any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used.
3.   Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or intended
to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is likely
to cause sickness or disease.
4.   Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
5.   Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04   NOTICE TO OWNER.
The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building or
structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such is
found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement officer. If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to
be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the enforcement officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail to
the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of Iowa, if
the owner is found within the City limits. If the owner is not found within the
City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered mail or
certified mail. The designated period within which said owner or person in
charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement officer shall
begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
2.   Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request
for hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.05   CONDUCT OF HEARING.
If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
1.   Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the date,
time and place of hearing.
2.   Owner’s Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
3.   Determination. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and may
issue such order as it deems appropriate.† 9
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
  Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
9 this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use of this procedure. We
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before initiating
  procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.
145.06   POSTING OF SIGNS.
The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read: “DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. CITY OF ELKADER,
IOWA.” Such notice shall remain posted until the required demolition, removal
or repairs are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without written
permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter the building
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the
building.
145.07   RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.08   COSTS.
Costs incurred under Section
145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury. Such costs shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special assessment against
the land on which the building or structure is located, and shall be certified
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes.
In addition, the City may take any other action deemed appropriate to recover
costs incurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
CHAPTER 146
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
 
146.01 Purpose                     146.07 Emergency and Temporary Parking
146.02 Definitions                 146.08 Mobile Home Park Permit
146.03 Conversion to Real Property 146.09 Mobile Home Park Area and Yard
                                   Requirements
146.04 Foundation Requirements     146.10 Length of Occupancy
146.05 Location of Mobile Homes    146.11 Compliance With State Building Code
146.06 Removing Mobile Home
 
146.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for municipal regulation of mobile
homes and mobile home parks in furtherance of the public health, safety, morals
and welfare.
146.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1)
1.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under the
authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403 which was constructed on or after June 15,
1976, and is required by federal law to display a seal from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
2.   “Manufactured home community” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land
under common ownership upon which ten or more occupied manufactured homes are
harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
building, structure, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of the manufactured home community.
3.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa. A mobile home means any such vehicle
built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building code
and which contains no State or federal seals.
4.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon which
three or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a combination of any of
these homes, are placed on developed spaces and operated as a for-profit
enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical services available.
The term “manufactured home community” or “mobile home park” is not to be
construed to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other
structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational institution,
or company on its own premises and used exclusively to house said entity’s own
labor or students. The manufactured home community or mobile home park shall
meet the requirements of any zoning regulations that are in effect.
146.03   CONVERSION TO REAL PROPERTY.
A mobile home or manufactured home that is located outside a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being placed
on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes except in
the following cases:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.26)
1.   Retailer’s Stock. Mobile homes or manufactured homes on private property
as part of a retailer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a place for human
habitation.
2.   Existing Homes. A taxable mobile home or manufactured home that is located
outside of a manufactured home community or mobile home park as of January 1,
1995, shall be assessed and taxed as real estate, but is exempt from the
permanent foundation requirement of this chapter until the home is relocated.
146.04   FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
A mobile home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system that meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code. The
foundation system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation systems
of surrounding residential structures. Any such home shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10 and 414.28)
146.05   LOCATION OF MOBILE HOMES.
It is unlawful for any person to park or place any mobile home on a street,
alley, highway, or public place, or on any private land within the City except
as provided by State law and this chapter. This section does not apply to
mobile homes parked or placed within mobile home parks or upon private property
as part of a dealer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a place for human
habitation.
146.06   REMOVING MOBILE HOME.
Any mobile home removed from property not a mobile home park shall not be
replaced by a mobile home, unless the newly installed home meets the
construction and safety standards established under the authority of 42USC
Section 5403, which have been adopted by the Iowa State Building Code. However,
if a mobile home is converted to real estate under the provisions of Section
135D.26 and conforms to the provisions of 42USC Section 5403, it may locate in
any part of the City, subject to meeting requirements of the Zoning Ordinance,
if the home is connected permanently to City water and sanitary sewer
facilities and possesses a certificate that it complies with the construction
and safety standards under 42USC Section 5403.
146.07   EMERGENCY AND TEMPORARY PARKING.
Emergency or temporary parking of mobile homes upon the streets, alleys, or
highways, or any other public or private place for a period not in excess of
seven days shall not constitute a violation of this chapter, but such parking
shall be subject to any prohibitions or regulations contained in this Code of
Ordinances.
146.08   MOBILE HOME PARK PERMIT.
No person shall establish, maintain, conduct or operate a mobile home park
within the City without first obtaining a permit and paying a fee of $25.00 to
the City Administrator/Clerk. No person shall make alterations to the sanitary
facilities or construct, expand, or remodel a mobile home park within the City
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Building Inspector. Said
park, its facilities, and the mobile homes therein shall comply with all other
applicable ordinances of the City.
146.09   MOBILE HOME PARK AREA AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
Mobile home or trailer parks shall be designed and maintained in accordance
with the following requirements, to be enforced by the Building Inspector:
1.   Park – Minimum Requirements.
   A.   Mobile home park area – one acre minimum.
   B.   Front yard – 50 feet (measured from all streets on which park abuts)
   C.   Side yard – 35 feet.
   D.   Rear yard – 35 feet.
   E.   Sanitary facilities – connection with the municipal sewer system or
adequate private sewage disposal facilities.
   F.   Streets – Each mobile home lot shall have direct access to a park
street. The minimum roadway width of interior park streets shall be as follows:
 
One-way, no parking         11 feet
One-way, parking one side   18 feet
One-way, parking both sides 24 feet
Two-way, no parking         24 feet
Two-way, parking one side   27 feet
Two-way, parking both sides 34 feet
 
Such streets shall be surfaced with either asphaltic or Portland cement
concrete according to City specifications for residential streets, and be
maintained in good condition and lighted at night.
   G.   Water. Parks shall have a continuous supply of safe potable water under
at least 20 pounds per square inch pressure unless a municipal water supply is
available abutting the property, in which case the park shall hook up and use
the municipal supply.
2.   Mobile Home Spaces – Minimum Requirements. (See Schedule of District
Requirements for Manufactured/Modular/Mobile Home Parks in Section
165.07 of this Code of Ordinances.)
3.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided from the entrance of each mobile
home to the service facilities. These walks shall be constructed of concrete.
4.   Landscaping (Unused Area). All areas not used for access, parking,
circulation, buildings, and service shall be completely and permanently
landscaped and the entire site maintained in good condition. A landscaped strip
of land, not less than 10 feet in width, shall be established and maintained
within the mobile home park along its exterior boundaries.
5.   Concrete Slab. Each mobile home unit lot shall be equipped with a concrete
slab of sufficient size to support the wheels and the front parking jack. Said
slab shall have a minimum horizontal dimension of eight feet by 10 feet and a
minimum thickness of four inches.
6.   Recreation Areas. There shall be provided within each mobile home park an
adequate site or sites for recreational use by residents. The minimum area
provided for such recreation site or sites shall consist of an aggregate of 100
square feet for each mobile home space in said park. The recreation sites shall
be of appropriate design and provided with appropriate equipment.
146.10   LENGTH OF OCCUPANCY.
No mobile home or trailer shall remain in a mobile home park for a period
exceeding 15 days without connection to the permanent sanitary sewer system of
the park.
146.11   COMPLIANCE WITH STATE BUILDING CODE.
All mobile homes located in the City limits shall, before being located,
whether permanently or for a temporary period of time allowed by a temporary
permit, show the certificate to the City Administrator/Clerk and file a copy
which shows the mobile home is in compliance with the current State Building
Code as to mobile home construction.
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements 150.04 Building Numbering
 
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to the
principal building from the City Administrator/Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
2.   Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than two and one-half inches in height
and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the City Administrator/Clerk.
150.04   BUILDING NUMBERING.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall be responsible for preparing and maintaining
a building numbering map, in accordance with the following provisions, and
filing it in the office of the Clerk.
1.   Base Lines. Bridge Street constitutes the base line for the numbering
system as applied to streets running east and west. Main Street constitutes the
base line for the numbering system as applied to streets running north and
south.
2.   Diagonal and Curved Streets. Diagonal and curved streets are classified as
east and west or north and south streets depending in which classification
their general alignment most nearly conforms.
3.   Even Numbers. Even numbers shall be assigned to principal buildings
fronting on the west side of streets running north and south and on the south
side of streets running east and west.
4.   Odd Numbers. Odd numbers shall be assigned to principal buildings fronting
on the east side of streets running north and south and on the north side of
streets running east and west.
5.   Assignment of Numbers to Properties. Each principal building shall be
assigned a number in accordance with the provisions of this section. In case
there are vacant lots or double lots, numbers shall be reserved to provide for
an orderly numbering system when the lots are occupied or divided.
CHAPTER 151
TREES
 
151.01 Definition                       151.05 Disease Control
151.02 Planting Guidelines              151.06 Inspection and Removal
151.03 Duty Tro Rim Trees               151.07 Damaging Trees
151.04 Trimming Trees to be Suupervised
 
151.01   DEFINITION.
For use in this chapter, “parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or
highway in the City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and
the curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or
highway lying between the lot line and that portion of the street usually
traveled by vehicular traffic.
151.02   PLANTING GUIDELINES.
The purpose of these guidelines is to promote improved and healthy tree growth
conditions while avoiding site obstruction and conflicts with utilities. All
trees planted in a street, park or public place shall be of a species that is
clean, strong and long-lived.
Residents seeking to plant a tree in any parking shall apply for a permit and
comply with the following:
1.   Alignment. All trees planted in any parking shall be planted in the
parking midway between the outer line of the sidewalk and the curb. In the
event a curb line is not established, trees shall be planted on a line 10 feet
from the property line.
2.   Spacing. Trees shall not be planted on any parking that is less than nine
feet in width, or contains less than 81 square feet of exposed soil surface per
tree. Trees shall not be planted closer than 20 feet from street intersections
(property lines extended) and 10 feet from driveways. There shall be 40’
between large trees and 20’ between small trees. If it is at all possible,
trees should be planted inside the property lines and not between the sidewalk
and the curb.
3.   Prohibited Trees. General guidelines:
   A.   Short lived tree species
   B.   Trees with weak wood
   C.   Trees which create a site obstruction or
   D.   Trees which have excessive mess are prohibited.
No person shall plant in any parking:
   A.   Any fruit-bearing tree
   B.   Or any tree of the kinds commonly known as
      (1)   Cottonwood,
      (2)   Poplar,
      (3)   Box elder,
      (4)   Chinese elm,
      (5)   Evergreen,
      (6)   Willow,
      (7)   Black walnut,
      (8)   Siberian elm,
      (9)   Black locust,
      (10)   Tree of heaven,
      (11)   Evergreen,
      (12)   Autumn olive,
      (13)   Female Ginko,
      (14)   Catalpa tree,
      (15)   Or ash).
4.   Every permit shall include:
   A.   A sketch of the work to be done (location of tree and measurements from
curb, lot line, driveway, intersection or other trees)
   B.   The species,
   C.   Sizes and locations of trees or shrubs to be planted,
   D.   And locations of utilities. Permit applicant shall initiate the Iowa
One Call for utility locations. The Public Works Director and City
Administrator/Clerk shall review the permit application to determine if it
complies with this section.
Permits shall expire after one year.
5.   Enforcement.
   A.   Appeals. A person may appeal the issuance or denial of a permit
authorized by this chapter pursuant to the following procedure: within 10 days
of receiving the decision on the permit, notice of appeal shall be given to the
City Administrator/Clerk in writing. The notice of appeal shall state the
nature of the objection and shall include a summary of the factual basis
supporting the appeal. The appeal will be sent to the City Council for a
decision at the next earliest City Council meeting. The decision of the City
Council shall constitute a final decision.
151.03   DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 15 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks. If the
abutting property owner fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on
the abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five
days. If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the
required action and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c and e])
151.04   TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
Except as allowed in Section
151.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or cut any tree in a parking or
public place unless the work is done under the supervision of the City.
151.05   DISEASE CONTROL.
Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub that may harbor serious insect or
disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
151.06   INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in the
City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased, or damaged, and such trees and
shrubs shall be subject to the following:
1.   City Property. If it is determined that any such condition exists on any
public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line of
private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal. The Council may also order the removal of any trees on
the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or with
travel thereon.
2.   Private Property. If it is determined with reasonable certainty that any
such condition exists on private property and that danger to other trees or to
adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is imminent, the Council
shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or person in charge of such
property to correct such condition by treatment or removal within 14 days of
said notification. If such owner, occupant, or person in charge of said
property fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council may
cause the condition to be corrected and the cost assessed against the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3b and h])
151.07   DAMAGING TREES.
No person shall break, deface, injure, fasten materials to, or destroy any tree
or shrub in any parking, park or public place.
(Chapter 151 – Ord. 2023-06 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 155
BUILDING PERMITS
 
155.01 Districting              155.05 Fees
155.02 Enforcing Officer        155.06 Exempted Work
155.03 Building Permit Required 155.07 Violations
155.04 Permits                  155.08 Expiration of Permit
 
155.01   DISTRICTING.
For the purpose of this chapter the entire City shall be included in one
district.
155.02   ENFORCING OFFICER.
It shall be the duty of the City Administrator/Clerk to enforce the provisions
of this chapter, but any and all of the powers and duties conferred on the City
Administrator/Clerk by this chapter may be delegated or transferred to any
other officer or employee of the City by resolution passed by a majority vote
of the members of the Council.
155.03   BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful to build, enlarge, alter, move, reconstruct, or repair any
building or accessory structure or part thereof until a plan of the proposed
work and the location of the same, together with a statement of the estimated
costs of the project shall have been filed with City Hall and a written permit
issued therefor by the City Administrator/Clerk or the Deputy Clerk. If the
plan, location, and materials comply with the provisions of this chapter, the
City Administrator/Clerk or Deputy Clerk shall issue a permit for the work.
155.04   PERMITS.
Any building permit issued hereunder shall be prominently displayed by the
property owner on the premises during construction. No construction shall begin
until such permit is obtained and posted, and until the location of the
foundation is approved by a City employee.
155.05   FEES.
The fees for building permits shall be as follows:
Commercial Buildings, Including Solar Gardens and Solar Farms:
New buildings consisting of 1,000 square feet or less               $ 75.00
Plus for each additional 1,000 square feet exceeding the 1,000 feet $ 5.00
Single-Unit Houses:
New building consisting of 1,000 square feet of living space        $ 85.00
Attached garage                                                     $ 30.00
New building with more than 1,000 square feet of living space       $100.00
Attached garage                                                     $ 30.00
Multiple Living Units:
Per unit                                                            $ 60.00
Garage or Carport                                                   $ 30.00
Utility shed, deck, fence, sign                                     $ 15.00
Satellite tower or guyed pole:
Under 50 feet                                                       $ 25.00
51-150 feet                                                         $ 50.00
151-300 feet                                                        $100.00
Over 300 feet                                                       $200.00
Solar collector                                                     $ 25.00
Fees for permits for alterations, repairs, remodeling, additions to
existing buildings, and moving of buildings:
For valuations of $0.00 to $1,000.00                                $ 20.00
Plus for each $1,000.00 of valuation above the $1,000.00            $ 3.00
Demolition of a building                                            $ 50.00
Sidewalk, curb, and driveway:
Curb and driveway                                                   $ 15.00
Sidewalk (less than 400 square feet)                                $ 10.00
Sidewalk (greater than 400 square feet)                             $ 15.00
Parking Lot:
Under 50,000 square feet                                            $ 25.00
Above 50,000 square feet                                            $ 50.00
 
155.06   EXEMPTED WORK.
A building permit is not required for the following:
1.   Painting, papering, molding, and similar finish work.
2.   Repairing and re-shingling LESS than 25 percent of total roof area.
3.   Replacing or adding cabinets.
4.   Replacement of doors and windows of the same size.
5.   Any interior alteration or remodeling.
155.07   VIOLATIONS.
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a violation of
this Code of Ordinances, and each day in which any such violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense. Any building or structure erected, altered,
repaired, or moved in violation of this chapter shall be deemed a nuisance and
the Council is hereby empowered to abate said nuisance by action in the
District Court or otherwise.
155.08   EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
A building permit, for any purpose, will expire one year after the permit is
issued. If the permit expires before the project is complete, the permit holder
must re-apply for a permit at City Hall.
CHAPTER 157
BUILDING CODE
 
157.01 Title    157.03 Modifications
157.02 Adoption
 
157.01   TITLE.
This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the City of Elkader
Building Code.
157.02   ADOPTION.
Except as hereafter modified, the certain Building Code known as the
International Building Code, 2009 Edition, which code is hereby specifically
incorporated by reference, shall be known as the Building Code. The provisions
of said Building Code shall be controlling in the design, construction, quality
of materials, erection, installation, addition, alteration, repair, location,
relocation, replacement, removal, demolition, use, and maintenance of buildings
and other structures and in all matters covered by said Building Code within
the incorporated limits of the City.
157.03   MODIFICATIONS.
Certain sections and portions of sections of the International Building Code,
2009 Edition, are hereby modified as set forth in the following sections:
1.   Scope. The Building Code applies only to buildings owned by the City whose
construction is completed after the adoption date of the ordinance codified by
this chapter (October 25, 2010).
2.   Enforcement. Any references in the code to the “building official” shall
be replaced with “City inspector.” Delete the following sections from Chapter
1, Part 2 of the Building Code and add in their place:
Section 103: The City Council shall, from time to time as is necessary, hire or
appoint a City building inspector of its choosing to perform all necessary
enforcement functions under the Building Code.
Section 104.1: The City inspector is hereby authorized and directed to enforce
the provisions of this code. The City inspector shall have the authority to
render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in
order to clarify the application of its provisions.
3.   Automatic Sprinkler Systems. Delete Building Code Section 903 and any
reference thereto.
CHAPTER 158
WOOD FURNACES
 
158.01 Definitions                  158.05 Substantive Requirements For Indoor
                                    Wood Furnaces
158.02 Regulations For Outdoor Wood 158.06 Appeals
Furnaces
158.03 Substantive Requirements For 158.07 Violations and Penalties
Outdoor Wood Furnaces
158.04 Regulations For Indoor Wood
Furnaces
 
158.01   DEFINITIONS.
1.   “Chimney” means a flue that carries off exhaust from an outdoor wood
furnace firebox or burn chamber.
2.   “EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program” means the outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater
program Phase 1 Program administered by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
3.   “EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program Qualified Model” means an outdoor wood-fired
hydronic heater that has been EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program qualified. The model has
met the EPA OWHH Phase 1 emission level and has the proper qualifying label and
hangtag.
4.   “Indoor wood furnace” means any equipment, device, appliance, or apparatus
(or any part thereof) which is installed, affixed, or situated for the primary
purpose of combustion of fuel to produce heat or energy used as a component of
a heating system providing heat for any interior space or water source.
5.   “Outdoor wood furnace” means any equipment, device, appliance, or
apparatus (or any part thereof) which is installed, affixed, or situated
outdoors for the primary purpose of combustion of fuel to produce heat or
energy used as a component of a heating system providing heat for any interior
space or water source. An outdoor wood furnace may also be referred to as an
outdoor wood boiler or outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater.
6.   “Natural wood” means wood which has not been painted, varnished, or coated
with a similar material, has not been pressure treated with preservatives, and
does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood
products.
158.02   REGULATIONS FOR OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACES.
1.   No person shall construct, install, establish, operate, or maintain an
outdoor wood furnace without getting a building permit and following the
applicable sections of this chapter. The cost of the permit will be $15.00.
2.   No person shall, from the effective date of this chapter, operate an
outdoor wood furnace unless such operation conforms with the manufacturer’s
instructions regarding such operation and the requirements of this chapter
regarding fuels that may be burned in an outdoor wood furnace as set forth in
subsection
158.03(1) and
158.03(2) of this chapter and chimney height as set forth in subsection
158.03(3) of this chapter.
3.   All outdoor wood furnaces shall be constructed, established, installed,
operated, and maintained in conformance with the manufacturer’s instructions
and the requirements of this chapter. In the event of a conflict, the
requirements of this chapter shall apply unless the manufacturer’s instructions
are stricter, in which case the manufacturer’s instructions shall apply.
4.   The owner of an outdoor wood furnace shall produce the manufacturer’s
owner’s manual or installation instructions to the Public Works Director to
review prior to installation.
5.   All outdoor wood furnaces shall be laboratory tested and listed to
appropriate safety standards such as United Laboratory (UL), American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) or
other applicable safety standards.
6.   All outdoor wood furnaces shall be EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program qualified and
have the proper qualifying label and hangtag.
7.   If an outdoor wood furnace is, through the course of a proper
investigation by local authorities, creating a verifiable nuisance, as defined
in Municipal Code Section
50.01, the following applies:
   A.   The City Administrator/Clerk will make the owner aware of the nuisance
by written notice and give the owner 10 days to make modifications to the unit
that will eliminate the nuisance such as extending the chimney or relocating
the outdoor wood furnace or both, or owner may discontinue operating the unit
until reasonable steps can be taken to ensure that the outdoor wood furnace
will not be a nuisance.
   B.   If the nuisance is not abated, the procedures for nuisance abatement as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of the Municipal Code apply.
8.   All outdoor wood furnaces shall be secured in such a way as not to be an
attractive nuisance or allow non-owners to enter the furnace area.
158.03   SUBSTANTIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACES.
Outdoor wood furnaces shall be constructed, established, installed, operated,
and maintained pursuant to the following conditions:
1.   Fuel burned in any new or existing outdoor wood furnace shall be only
natural untreated wood, wood pellets, corn products, biomass pellets or other
listed fuels specifically permitted by the manufacturer’s instructions such as
fuel oil, natural gas, or propane backup.
2.   The following fuels are strictly prohibited in new or existing outdoor
wood furnaces:
   A.   Wood that has been painted, varnished, or coated with similar material
or has been pressure treated with preservatives and contains resins or glues as
in plywood or other composite wood products.
   B.   Rubbish or garbage, including but not limited to food wastes, food
packaging, and food wraps.
   C.   Any plastic materials including but not limited to nylon, PVC, ABS,
polystyrene or urethane foam, and synthetic fabrics, plastic films, and plastic
containers.
   D.   Rubber including tires or other synthetic rubber-like products.
   E.   Newspaper, cardboard, or any paper with ink or dye products.
   F.   Any other items not specifically allowed by the manufacturer or this
provision.
3.   Chimney heights. The chimney of any new outdoor wood furnace shall extend
at least two feet above the peak of any residence not served by the outdoor
wood furnace located within 300 feet of such outdoor wood furnace.
4.   Setbacks. Owners shall comply with the setback requirements for
residential buildings as outlined in Subsection
165.08(2)(B) of this Code of Ordinances.
5.   Outdoor wood furnaces are prohibited in the C-2 District.
158.04   REGULATIONS FOR INDOOR WOOD FURNACES.
1.   No person shall operate a wood furnace unless such operation conforms with
the manufacturer’s instructions regarding such operation.
2.   All indoor wood furnaces shall be constructed, established, installed,
operated, and maintained in conformance with the manufacturer’s instructions
and the requirements of this chapter. In the event of a conflict, the
requirements of this chapter shall apply unless the manufacturer’s instructions
are stricter, in which case the manufacturer’s instructions shall apply.
3.   If an indoor wood furnace is, through the course of a proper investigation
by local authorities, creating a verifiable nuisance, as defined in Section
50.01 of this Code of Ordinances, the following applies:
   A.   The City Administrator/Clerk will make the owner aware of the nuisance
by written notice and give the owner 10 days to make modifications to the unit
that will eliminate the nuisance such as extending the chimney, or owner shall
discontinue operating the unit until reasonable steps can be taken to ensure
that the indoor wood furnace will not be a nuisance.
   B.   If the nuisance is not abated, the procedures for nuisance abatement as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances apply.
158.05   SUBSTANTIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR INDOOR WOOD FURNACES.
Indoor wood furnaces shall be constructed, established, installed, operated,
and maintained pursuant to the following conditions:
1.   Fuel burned in any new or existing indoor wood furnace shall be only
natural untreated wood, wood pellets, corn products, biomass pellets, or other
listed fuels specifically permitted by the manufacturer’s instructions such as
fuel oil, natural gas, or propane backup.
2.   The following fuels are strictly prohibited in new or existing indoor wood
furnaces:
   A.   Wood that has been painted, varnished or coated with similar material
and/or has been pressure treated with preservatives and contains resins or
glues as in plywood or other composite wood products.
   B.   Rubbish or garbage, including but not limited to food wastes, food
packaging, food wraps.
   C.   Any plastic materials including but not limited to nylon, PVC, ABS,
polystyrene or urethane foam, and synthetic fabrics, plastic films and plastic
containers.
   D.   Rubber including tires or other synthetic rubber-like products.
   E.   Newspaper, cardboard, or any paper with ink or dye products.
   F.   Any other items not specifically allowed by the manufacturer or this
provision.
Fuel for indoor wood furnaces shall never be stored, even temporarily, on
public sidewalk or street. It will be immediately removed by the City and the
cost assessed to the property owner.
3.   Chimney heights. Where the distance between buildings (either primary or
accessory building) is less than 16 feet between the roof overhang of the
building with an indoor wood furnace and a neighboring building, the chimney
height shall extend at least three feet above the highest point of the roof of
either building.
4.   Spark Arresters. Spark arresters shall be required and meet the following
requirements:
   A.   The net free area of the arrestor shall be not less than three times
the net free area of the outlet of the chimney flue it serves.
   B.   The arrest screen shall have heat and corrosion resistance equivalent
to 19 gauge galvanized steel or 24 gauge stainless steel.
   C.   Openings shall not allow the passage of spheres having a diameter more
than one-half inch or block the passage of spheres having a diameter of less
than three-eighths inch.
   D.   The spark screen shall be accessible for cleaning and the screen or
chimney cap shall be removable to allow cleaning of the chimney flue.
5.   Annual inspection. Where the distance between buildings (either primary or
accessory building) is less than 16 feet between the roof overhang of the
building with an indoor wood furnace and a neighboring building, the building
with the indoor wood furnace must have the furnace, chimney, and spark arrestor
inspected annually. A copy of satisfactory inspection shall be submitted to the
City Administrator/Clerk.
158.06   APPEALS.
1.   Enforcement. Enforcement of this chapter shall be the duty of the Zoning
Administrator. Appeals from any actions, decisions, or rulings of the Zoning
Administrator may be made to the City Council.
2.   Criteria for Variances. In making its determination, the City Council
shall take into consideration the benefit to the applicant if the variance is
granted, as weighted against the detriment of the neighborhood or community by
such grant. In making such determination the Council shall also consider:
   A.   Whether an undesirable change will be produced in the character of the
neighborhood or a detriment to nearby properties will be created by the
granting of the variance;
   B.   Whether the benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by some
method, feasible for the applicant to pursue, other than a variance;
   C.   Whether the requested variance is substantial.
158.07   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Municipal Infraction as defined in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances, and shall be subject to a fine as
outlined in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances. Each week’s continued violation shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
 
160.01 Definitions                            160.06 Variance Procedures
160.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of Fact, 160.07 Nonconforming Uses
and Purpose
160.03 General Provisions                     160.08 Penalties for Violation
160.04 Administration                         160.09 Amendments
160.05 Floodplain Management Standards
 
160.01 DEFINITIONS.
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel of
the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.
2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year and is also commonly referred to as the “100-year
flood.”
3.   “Base flood elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would reach
at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
5.   “Development” means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including (but not limited to) buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage
of equipment or materials. “Development” does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
6.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed
area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
   A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic pressure
during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions of
Section
160.05(1)(D)(1) of this chapter.
   B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage.
   C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation.
   D.   The enclosed area is not a basement as defined in this section.
7.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
8.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
9.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
10.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter, factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also include
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
11.   “Factory-built home park” means a parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or lease.
12.   “500-year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which has a two-tenths
percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which, on
average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 500 years.
13.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
14.   “Flood Insurance Rate Map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as part
of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which delineates
both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community.
15.   “Flood Insurance Study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps. The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
16.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water
as a result of a flood.
17.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including (but not limited to) emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing and floodplain management regulations.
18.   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
19.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry
and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood flows to
the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface elevation of
the base flood by more than one foot.
20.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the Special Flood Hazard Area
outside the floodway.
21.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
22.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either: (i) by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
23.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a building
including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition of
enclosed area below lowest floor are met.
24.   “Maximum damage potential development” means hospitals and like
institutions; buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or
instruments of great public value; buildings or building complexes containing
materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power
installations needed in emergency or other buildings or building complexes
similar in nature or use.
25.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for filling,
grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
26.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks, accessory
structures) means those structures or development for which the start of
construction commenced on or after the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
27.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
28.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis.
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection.
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck.
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
29.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means repairs
necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do not
trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
   A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing roofing
tiles and replacing siding.
   B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets,
counter tops and similar finish work.
   C.   Basement sealing.
   D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
   E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems, and repairing wells or septic systems.
30.   “Special Flood Hazard Area” (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, and/or A99.
31.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alternation of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
32.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including (but not limited to) buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities,
and/or other similar uses.
33.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition
would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be included in
the estimated cost of repair.
34.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure either:
(i) before the start of construction of the improvement; or (ii) if the
structure has been substantially damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. The term does not, however, include any project for
improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of State or local
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the local Code Enforcement Official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of
a historic structure, provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as a historic structure.
   B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building by
25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of the
first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be added
to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in original
floor space would exceed 25 percent.
35.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of the
floodplain management regulations.
36.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to be
fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
160.02 STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.
1.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in Chapter 364, Code of Iowa, as
amended, delegated the power to cities to exercise any power and perform any
function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights, privileges
and property of the City or of its residents, and to preserve and improve the
peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort and convenience of its residents.
2.   Findings of Fact.
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation
which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
   B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused by:
(i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood damages
which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately elevated or
otherwise protected from flooding; and (ii) the cumulative effect of
obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
   C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Paragraph 2(A) of this section with provisions designed to:
   A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows so
that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
   B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
   C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilties
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
   D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
   E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
1.   Lands to Which Ordinance Apply. The provisions of this ordinance shall
apply to all lands and development which have significant flood hazards. The
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for Clayton County and incorporated areas, City
of Elkader, Panels 256 and 257, dated September 29, 2022, which were prepared
as part of the Clayton County Flood Insurance Study, shall be used to identify
such flood hazard areas and all areas shown thereon to be within the boundaries
of the base flood shall be considered as having significant flood hazards. The
Clayton County and incorporated areas Flood Insurance Study is hereby adopted
by reference and is made a part of this ordinance for the purpose of
administering floodplain management regulations.
2.   Rules of Interpretation of Flood Hazard Boundaries. The boundaries of the
Special Flood Hazard Areas shall be determined by scaling distance on the
official Flood Insurance Rate Map. Where uncertainty exists with respect to the
precise location of the base flood boundary, the location shall be determined
on the basis of the base flood elevation at the particular site in question.
When an interpretation is needed as to the exact location of a boundary, the
Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The Council shall hear
and decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Administrator in the
enforcement or administration of this ordinance.
3.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no structure
shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered without full
compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations
which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
4.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with
this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
5.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of
this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
6.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Special Flood Hazard Areas will be
free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on
the part of the City or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages
that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
7.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
160.04 ADMINISTRATION.
1.   Appointment, Duties and Responsibilities of Local Official.
   A.   The City Administrator/Clerk is hereby appointed to implement and
administer the provisions of this ordinance and will herein be referred to as
the Administrator.
   B.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to the following:
      (1)   Review all Floodplain Development Permit Applications to assure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
      (2)   Review floodplain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State and local governmental
agencies including approval when required from the Department of Natural
Resources for floodplain construction.
      (3)   Record and maintain a record of (i) the elevation (in relation to
North American Vertical Datum 1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new or substantially improved structures or (ii) the elevation to which new
or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
      (4)   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of Natural
Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a watercourse and
submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
      (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.
      (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
      (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
      (8)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this ordinance and advise the Council of
potential conflict.
      (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps
when:
         a.   Development placed within the floodway results in any of the
following: (i) an increase in the base flood elevations, or (ii) alteration to
the floodway boundary.
         b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base elevation; or
         c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
      Within 6 months of the completion of the development, the applicant shall
submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter of Map
Revision.
      (10)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the standards
of this ordinance.
      (11)   Forward all requests for variances to the Council for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Council.
2.   Floodplain Development Permit.
   A.   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any man-
made change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited
to buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
materials and equipment, excavation or drilling operation), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
   B.   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished by
the Administrator and shall include the following:
      (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
      (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(i.e., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
      (3)   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
      (4)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
      (5)   Elevation of the base flood.
      (6)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of
the lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to which a
structure is to be floodproofed.
      (7)   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
      (8)   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this ordinance.
   C.   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefor. The Administrator shall not issue
permits for variances except as directed by the Council.
   D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished fill,
structure floor elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to
the use or occupancy of any structure.
160.05 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT STANDARDS.
1.   General Floodplain Standards. All development must be consistent with the
need to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance
standards. Where base flood elevations have not been provided in the Flood
Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to
determine (i) whether the land involved is either wholly or partly within the
floodway or floodway fringe and (ii) the base flood elevation. Until a
regulatory floodway is designated, no development may increase the base flood
elevation more than one (1) foot. The applicant will be responsible for
providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical
information to make such determination. Review by the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources is not required for the proposed construction of new or
replacement bridges or culverts where (i) the bridge or culvert is located on a
stream that drains less than two (2) square miles, and (ii) the bridge or
culvert is not associated with a channel modification that constitutes a
channel change as specified in 567.71.2(2), Iowa Administrative Code.
   A.   All development shall:
      (1)   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement.
      (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage.
   B.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one foot above the base flood elevation. Construction shall be upon
compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one foot above the
base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the
limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such
as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed where existing topography,
street grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such cases, the
methods used must be adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the
various forces and hazards associated with flooding. All new residential
structures located in areas that would become isolated due to flooding of
surrounding ground shall be provided with a means of access that will be
passable by wheeled vehicles during the base flood. However, this criterion
shall not apply where the Floodplain Administrator determines there is
sufficient flood warning time for the protection of life and property. When
estimating flood warning time, consideration shall be given to the criteria
listed in 567.75.2(3), Iowa Administrative Code.
   C.   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level. When
floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State of
Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the
base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   D.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
      (1)   Full enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings, with positioning on at least two
(2) walls, having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all opening shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exist of
floodwaters.
      Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access
and low damage potential storage.
      (2)   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
      (3)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating, air
conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or in the case on non-residential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood
elevation.
      (4)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
plumbing, gas lines, water/gas meters and other similar service utilities
either elevated (or in the case of non-residential structures, optionally
floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood elevation or
designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a level.
   E.   Factory-Built Homes.
      (1)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure
is a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Anchorage systems
may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to
ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
   F.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
      (1)   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
      (2)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well
as the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood
elevation.
      (4)   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
   G.   Storage of Equipment and Materials. Storage of equipment and materials
that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or:
(i) not subject to major flood damage and anchored to prevent movement due to
flood waters; or (ii) readily removable from the area within the time available
after flood warning.
   H.   Flood Control Structures. Flood control structural works such as
levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base
flood with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources
shall approve structural flood control works.
   I.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must be
designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources must
approve such alterations or relocations.
   J.   Subdivision. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Special Flood Hazard Area.
   K.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
      (1)   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are incidental
to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation requirements
where the following criteria are satisfied:
         a.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed 600 sq. ft. in size. Those portions of the
structure located less than 1 foot above the base flood elevation must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials.
         b.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage potential
uses such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure shall not be
used for human habitation.
         c.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         d.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement which may result in damage to other structures.
         e.   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above the base
flood elevation.
         f.   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Paragraph D(1) of this subsection.
      (2)   Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
   L.   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles are exempt from the
requirements of Paragraph E of this subsection regarding anchoring and
elevation of factory-built homes when the following criteria are satisfied.
      (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less than
180 consecutive days; and
      (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
Paragraph E of this subsection regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-
built homes.
   M.   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be buried
in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent
rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
   N.   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially improved
maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the elevation of the 500-
year flood, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be
floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional
engineer registered in the State of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing
methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities,
impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with the 0.2% annual
chance flood; and that the structure, below the 0.2% annual chance flood
elevation is watertight with wall substantially impermeable to the passage of
water. A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator. Where 0.2% chance flood
elevation data has not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The
applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources
with sufficient technical information to make such determination.
2.   Special Floodway Provisions. In addition to the general floodplain
standards, development within the floodway must meet the following applicable
standards. The floodway is that portion of the floodplain which must be
protected from developmental encroachment to allow the free flow of flood
waters. Where floodway data has been provided in the Flood Insurance Study,
such data shall be used to define the floodway. Where no floodway data has been
provided, the Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to provide a
floodway delineation. The applicant will be responsible for providing the
Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to make
such determination.
   A.   No development shall be permitted in the floodway that would result in
any increase in the base flood elevation. Consideration of the effects of any
development on flood levels shall be based upon the assumption that an equal
degree of development would be allowed for similarly situated lands.
   B.   All development within the floodway shall:
      (1)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage.
   C.   No development shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the channel
or floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch or any other
drainage facility or system.
   D.   Structures, buildings, recreational vehicles, and sanitary and utility
systems, if permitted, shall meet the applicable general floodplain standards
and shall be constructed or aligned to present the minimum possible resistance
to flood flows.
   E.   Structures, if permitted, shall have a low flood damage potential and
shall not be for human habitation.
   F.   Storage of materials or equipment that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive or injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited. Storage of
other material may be allowed if readily removable from the floodway within the
time available after flood warning.
   G.   Watercourse alterations or relocations (channel changes and
modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within
the altered or relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations
must be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
   H.   Any fill allowed in the floodway must be shown to have some beneficial
purpose and shall be limited to the minimum amount necessary.
   I.   Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried in the streambed and
banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to channel
degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows.
160.06 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
1.   The Council may authorize upon request in specific cases such variances
from the terms of this ordinance that will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this ordinance will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
   A.   Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause, (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
   B.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood would result. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
   C.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   D.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood protection
for structures than what is ordinarily required by this ordinance, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that: (i) the issuance of a variance will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and
(ii) such construction increases risks to life and property.
   E.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
2.   Factors Upon Which the Decision of the Council Shall Be Based. In passing
upon applications for variances, the Council shall consider all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this ordinance and:
   A.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
   B.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or downstream
to the injury of others.
   C.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions.
   D.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
   E.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
City.
   F.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
   G.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding for
the proposed use.
   H.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
   I.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area.
   J.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles.
   K.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood water expected at the site.
   L.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems), facilities, streets and bridges.
   M.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this ordinance.
3.   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above, the Council may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as
it deems necessary to further the purpose of this ordinance. Such conditions
may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
   A.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
   B.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
   C.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed restrictions.
   D.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes, levees,
and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the Department of
Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative to achieving
the purpose of this ordinance.
   E.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the flood
protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated with
the regulatory flood. The Council shall require that the applicant submit a
plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
160.07 NONCONFORMING USES.
1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but which
is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued
subject to the following conditions:
   A.   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future use
of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
   B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
2.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means, including
flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50 percent of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless it is
reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with exiting
State or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation
Except as provided in Subsection 1(B) of this section, any use which has been
permitted as a variance shall be considered a conforming use.
160.08 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
the requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein contained
prevent the City from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy violation.
160.09 AMENDMENTS.
The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to time
be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
(Chapter 160 – Ord. 2022-05 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 162
DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
 
162.01 Permit Required                   162.05 Time Limit
162.02 Application                       162.06 Right to Demolish
162.03 Permit Issued                     162.07 Required Notification of
                                         Neighboring Properties
162.04 Public Safety and Site Conditions 162.08 Penalty
 
162.01   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to demolish a building or structure as defined in
Section
165.01 of this Code of Ordinances, without a valid permit from the City for
each house, building, or similar structure to be demolished.
162.02   APPLICATION.
Application for a demolition permit shall be made in writing to the City
Administrator/Clerk. The application shall include:
1.   Name and Address. The name and address of the legal owner of the property
as well as the applicant’s full name and address, if different from the owner.
2.   Address of property and an indication of the structures to be demolished.
3.   A description of planned reuse of the property if the demolition permit is
approved. If the reuse plan contemplates construction of a structure, this
should be discussed with the City Administrator/Clerk to clarify applicable
provisions of this Code of Ordinances.
If commencement of construction is not planned to occur within 60 days after
completion of demolition, then the applicant must restore the site, which
includes, but is not limited to, backfilling of any excavation, grading,
seeding, fencing, storm water management, utility disconnections, and the like.
162.03   PERMIT ISSUED.
Upon approval of the application the City Administrator/Clerk shall issue a
permit. However, if the structure is listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or deemed in the view of the City Administrator/Clerk to be a
local landmark, Council approval will be necessary prior to issuance of a
demolition permit.
162.04   PUBLIC SAFETY AND SITE CONDITIONS.
As a condition of receiving a demolition permit, the permittee shall:
1.   Notify Iowa One Call to coordinate location and disconnection of all
utilities.
2.   Cap water and sewer lines at the main. The City shall inspect the cap
prior to backfilling. Any excavation sites including the surface will be
restored according to City standards, usually with like material.
3.   Take steps to ensure the safety of the general public. The steps shall be
in compliance with generally accepted building industry safety practices as may
be reflected in building codes applicable in the State.
4.   Provide for the restoration of the site so as to address safety and
nuisance concerns. All such sites shall be brought to a level or other grade
determined to be appropriate by the City Administrator/Clerk. All surface
irregularities, wells, septic tanks, basements, cellars, sidewalks, vaults, or
coal chutes remaining after demolition shall be filled with compactable
materials approved by the City Administrator/Clerk. Sod, grass seed, or other
ground cover material, including the application of topsoil if necessary to
ensure growth, shall be installed to address soil erosion control.
5.   Provide for the disposal of the debris associated with the demolition
work. The debris must be placed in an appropriate container for removal by a
private contractor, or another arrangement shall be made for the disposal of
the debris on at least a weekly basis. No permittee shall allow the non-
containerized accumulation of demolition debris on any property for a period in
excess of seven calendar days. All debris and material associated with the
demolition work shall be removed from the property. Permittee shall assure that
all debris loads are properly secured and transported without threat of harm to
the general public, private property, and public infrastructure. This includes,
but is not limited to, ensuring that all vehicles transporting debris are
equipped with and use tarps or netting to prevent further spread of debris.
6.   Comply with all applicable rules and regulations governing removal of
asbestos.
7.   Control airborne particles at all times by thoroughly saturating all
portions of the structure and areas surrounding the structure with water. Such
spraying shall be undertaken to thoroughly control creation and migration of
airborne particles, including, without limitation, dust from the subject
property during the demolition and removal of material from the subject
property. If the City’s water system is used, the permittee shall provide a
hydrant meter and the permittee shall pay the City for the retail value of the
water used. The water shall be delivered from the water source by a hose with a
minimum diameter of one and one-half inches.
8.   Erect fencing for the duration of the demolition until site restoration is
completed.
162.05   TIME LIMIT.
The permittee must complete the demolition activity, including site
restoration, within 30 calendar days from the receipt of the permit. The time
limit may be extended at the discretion of the City Administrator/Clerk. The
permittee must provide evidence to show that extenuating circumstances
prohibited the completion of the demolition work in the 30-day time period.
162.06   RIGHT TO DEMOLISH.
In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the provisions of
this chapter, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as a
violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. Costs incurred under
this chapter shall be paid out of the City treasury. Such costs shall be
charged to the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special
assessment against the land on which the building or structure is located, and
shall be certified to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner
provided for other taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
162.07   REQUIRED NOTIFICATION OF NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES.
The permittee shall give 48-hours notification of commencement of demolition to
all abutting properties.
162.08   PENALTY.
Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter shall result in a fine of
$100.00 per day. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
165.01 Definitions                      165.16 Repairs and Maintenance
165.02 Establishment of Districts       165.17 Uses Under Special Exception
                                        Provisions
165.03 Adoption of Official Zoning Map  165.18 Administration and Enforcement
165.04 Identification of Official       165.19 Appeals from Decision of
Zoning Map                              Administrative Officer
165.05 Changes in Official Zoning Map   165.20 Interpretation of Provisions
165.06 Interpretation of District       165.21 Violations
Boundaries
165.07 Schedules of District            165.22 Separate Offenses May Be Charged
Regulations
165.08 Supplementary District           165.23 Other Remedies
Regulations
165.09 Application of District          165.24 Construction Compliance
Regulations                             Certificate
165.10 Nonconformities                  165.25 Occupancy Compliance Certificate
165.11 Nonconformities May Not Be       165.26 Application for Compliance
Enlarged                                Certificates
165.12 Nonconforming Lots of Record     165.27 Fees
165.13 Nonconforming Uses of Land       165.28 Changes and Amendments
165.14 Nonconforming Structures         165.29 Application for Change of Zoning
                                        District Boundaries
165.15 Nonconforming Uses of Structures
 
165.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
1.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “A.”
   A.   “Accessory use” or “accessory building” means a use or structure
subordinate to the principal use of a building or land on the same lot or
parcel of ground and serving a purpose customarily incidental to the use of the
principal building or use of land.
   B.   Adult Entertainment Establishment. A building or use having a
substantial or significant portion of its business by the offering of
entertainment, stock in trade of materials, scenes or other presentations
characterized by emphasis on depiction or description of specific sexual
activities including nude and semi-nude dancing. The uses include but are not
limited to: adult book stores, adult massage parlors, adult modeling studios,
adult mini motion picture theaters, adult motion picture theaters, adult
theaters, adult sexual encounter centers and licensed beer and liquor
establishments offering nude and semi-nude performances for entertainment.
   C.   “Agriculture” means the use of land for agricultural purposes,
including farming, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture
and poultry growers, fish farms, nurseries, greenhouses, institutional farms,
fur farms, worm growers and other such specialty activities, and animal and
poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the
produce, provided that the operation of any such accessory uses is secondary to
that of normal agricultural activities.
   D.   “Alley” means a public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary
means of access to abutting property.
   E.   “Alterations, structural” means any change in the supporting members of
a building such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   F.   “Apartment” means a room or suite of rooms used as the dwelling of a
family, including bath and culinary accommodations.
   G.   “Apartment house” means a building arranged, intended, or designed to
be occupied by three or more families living independently of each other.
2.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “B.”
   A.   “Basement” means a story having more than one-half its height below
grade. A basement is not included in computing the number of stories for the
purpose of height measurement.
   B.   “Billboard” (Repealed by Ordinance No. 2024-01 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
   C.   “Board” means the Zoning Board of Adjustment of the City. (See also
Chapter 27)
   D.   “Boarding house” or “bed and breakfast” means a building other than a
hotel where, for compensation and by arrangement, meals, or lodging and meals,
are provided for not more than four guest families lodged at the same time.
   E.   “Brewpub” means the brewpub privilege, an extension of an existing
retail Class “B” liquor license or Class “C” liquor license. Adding a brewpub
privilege to the license allows the licensee to manufacture beer on the retail
premises for consumption on the premises. All beer brewed on the premises for
sale in growlers or other containers for off premises consumption must be first
sold to a licensed wholesaler (second tier) in observance of Iowa’s three-tier
system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.124 and 123.130)
   F.    “Building” or “structure” means anything constructed, erected, or
built, the use of which requires more or less permanent location on ground and
designed for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons,
animals, chattels, or property of any kind, including, but without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, installations such as signs, billboards, solar
panels, communication dishes, radio towers, and other facilities not designed
for storage of property or occupancy by persons.
   G.   “Building, height of” means the vertical distance from the grade to the
highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard
roof, or to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and
gambrel roofs.
   H.   “Building line” means the extreme overall dimensions of a building from
the foundation line. Distances are to be measured from the most outwardly
extended position of the structure. (See definition of “Yard.”)
   I.   “Building permit” means a written statement issued by the Zoning
Administrator authorizing buildings, structures, or uses consistent with the
terms of this chapter and for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing its
provisions.
   J.   “Business” means any occupation, employment, or enterprise wherein
merchandise is exhibited or sold, or where services are offered for
compensation.
3.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “C.”
   A.   “Carport” means a roofed structure providing space for the parking of
motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than two sides. For the purpose of this
chapter, a carport attached to a principal building is considered as part of
the principal building and subject to all yard requirements herein.
   B.   “Clinic” means a building or buildings used by physicians, lawyers,
dentists, osteopaths, chiropractors, and allied professions for outpatient care
of persons requiring such professional service.
   C.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City.
4.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “D.”
   A.   “Day nursery,” “nursery school,” or “day care” means any agency,
institution, individual, establishment, or place which provides supplemental
parental care or educational work, other than lodging overnight, for
compensation, as governed by the provisions set forth in Section 441, Human
Services, Chapter 110 of the Iowa Administrative Code.
   B.   “Distillery,” “winery,” and “brewery” mean not only the premises where
alcohol or spirits are distilled, wine is fermented, or beer is brewed, but in
addition mean a person owning, representing, or in charge of such premises and
the operations conducted there, including the blending and bottling or other
handling and preparation of alcohol liquor, wine, or beer in any form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.3)
   C.   “District” means a section or sections of the City for which
regulations governing the use of buildings and premises and the height and area
of buildings are uniform.
   D.   “Drive-in eating or drinking establishment” means any place or premises
used for the sale, dispensing, or serving of food, refreshments, or beverages
in automobiles, including those establishments where customers may serve
themselves and may eat or drink the food, refreshments or beverages on the
premises.
   E.   “Dwelling” means any building or portion thereof which is designed for
and used exclusively for residential purposes.
   F.   “Dwelling, multiple” means a building designed for or occupied
exclusively by more than two families.
   G.   “Dwelling, single-family” means a building designed for or occupied by
one family.
   H.   “Dwelling, two-family” means a building designed for or occupied by two
families.
   I.   “Dwelling unit” means one room or rooms connected together constituting
a separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy or for
rental or lease on a weekly, monthly or longer basis, and physically separated
from any other rooms or dwelling units which may be located in the same
structure, and containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
5.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “E.”
6.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “F.”
   A.   “Family” means one or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit,
provided that unless all members are related by blood, marriage, or adoption,
no such family shall contain over four persons.
   B.   “Farm” means an area which is used for the growing of the usual farm
products such as vegetables, fruits, and grains and their storage on the area,
as well as for the raising thereon of the usual farm poultry and farm animals.
The term “farming” includes the operating of such area for one or more of the
above uses with the necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the
produce, provided that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be
secondary to that of the normal farming activity and such accessory uses do not
include the feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals, or
commercial feeding of animals or poultry in confined lots or buildings.
   C.   “Farmstead dwelling” means a dwelling located on a farm and occupied by
a person or family employed in the agricultural pursuits of the farm on which
it is located.
   D.   “Floor area” means the square feet of floor space within the outside
line of walls, including the total of all space on all floors of a building.
“Floor area” does not include porches, garages, or space in a basement or
cellar which is used for storage or incidental use.
   E.   “Frontage” means all the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the
street, or, if the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on
one side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
7.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “G.”
   A.   “Garage, private” means an accessory building designed or used for the
storage of not more than four motor-driven vehicles owned and used by the
occupants of the building to which it is accessory. Not more than one of the
vehicles may be a commercial vehicle.
   B.   “Garage, public” means a building or portion thereof other than a
private or storage garage designed or used for equipping, servicing, repairing,
hiring, selling, or storing motor-driven vehicles.
   C.   “Garage, storage” means any building or premises, including a mini-
storage garage, used for storing motor-driven vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles), recreational vehicles and trailers, boats, furniture, or other
miscellaneous personal property, excluding such things as automobile fuels and
oils or other hazardous or volatile substances, pursuant to previous
arrangements.
   D.   “Grade” means the average level of the finished surface of the ground
adjacent to the exterior walls of the building, except when any wall
approximately parallels and is not more than five feet from a street line, then
the elevation of the street at the center of the wall adjoining the street
shall be grade.
   E.   “Group home” or “family home” means a community-based residential home
which is licensed as a residential care facility under Chapter 135C or as a
child foster care facility under Chapter 237 of the Code of Iowa to provide
room and board, personal care, habitation services, and supervision in a family
environment exclusively for not more than eight developmentally disabled
persons and any necessary support personnel. However, a group home or family
home does not mean an individual foster family home licensed under Chapter 237
of the Code of Iowa.
8.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “H.”
   A.   “Hazardous waste” means waste designated as hazardous by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency or appropriate State agency.
   B.   “Health club” means a non-medical service establishment intended to
maintain or improve the physical condition of paying customers which contains
exercise and game equipment and facilities, steam baths, saunas, hot tubs, or
similar equipment or facilities.
   C.   “Home industry” means any gainful occupation or profession conducted
entirely within an enclosed accessory building or dwelling unit which is
clearly incidental and secondary to the residential occupancy and does not
change the character thereof. The accessory building shall not be larger than
the principal structure.
   D.   “Home occupation” means an occupation or a profession which: (i) is
customarily carried on in a dwelling unit, and may also be allowed in an
accessory building; (ii) is carried on by a member of the family residing in
the dwelling unit; and (iii) is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of
the dwelling unit for residential purposes; and (iv) does not employ more than
two persons outside the resident family; and (v) has no exterior display, no
exterior storage of materials and no other exterior indication of the home
occupation or variation from the residential character of the principal
building, other than one exterior sign mounted flush with the face of the
building, which sign shall not exceed six square feet in area; and (vi) does
not occupy more than one-third of the area of one floor of the dwelling unit;
and (vii) produces no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, or
glare rendering such building or premises objectionable or detrimental to the
residential character of the neighborhood; and (viii) provides two off-street
parking spaces plus one space for each employee.
   E.   “Home occupation, farmstead” means an occupation customarily engaged in
on a farm, as a supplementary source of income, which: (i) is clearly
incidental and secondary to the operation of the farm; and (ii) is owned by a
member of the family residing in the farmstead dwelling; and (iii) does not
employ more than two persons outside the resident family; and (iv) is conducted
within or adjacent to the farmstead dwelling or the customary farm
outbuildings; and (v) has no exterior displays, or storage of materials visible
from the public road, or other exterior indication or variation from the
agricultural character of the farm; and (vi) has not more than one sign,
acknowledging the product or service available, which sign shall not exceed 12
square feet in area; and (vii) produces no offensive noise, vibration, smoke,
dust, odors, heat, glare, or electrical interference detectable within the
limits of the nearest neighboring farmstead or dwelling.
9.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “I.”
   A.   “Industry, heavy” means any heavy manufacturing or industrial
processing, which by nature of the materials, equipment, and process utilized
cannot eliminate entirely objectionable features and influences but which,
nevertheless, must be provided for somewhere in the urban areas.
   B.   “Industrial, light” means any light manufacturing or industrial
processing, which by nature of the materials, equipment, and process utilized
are to a considerable measure clean, quiet, and free of any objectionable or
hazardous element. Light manufacturing includes the following uses and any
other uses that are recommended by the Commission to be of the same general
character: bakeries, bottling, jewelry, musical instruments, plastic products
and sporting goods; processing and assembly of glass products, household
appliances, electronic products, and parts of production of finished equipment;
printing and engraving plants; cleaning and dyeing plants.
   C.   “Institution” means a building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a
nonprofit establishment for public use.
10.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “J.”
   A.   “Junk or salvage yard” means any area where junk or discarded or
salvaged material or equipment is bought, sold, exchanged, baled or packed,
disassembled, kept, stored, or handled, including house wrecking yards, auto
wrecking activities, used lumber yards, and places or yards for storage of
salvaged building materials and structural steel materials and equipment; but
not including areas where such uses are conducted entirely within a completely
enclosed building, and not including pawn shops and establishments for the
sale, purchase, or storage of used furniture and household equipment, used cars
in operable condition, or salvaged materials incidental and necessary to
manufacturing operations and not including contractors’ storage yards. The
presence on any lot, parcel or tract of land of two or more vehicles which for
a period exceeding 30 days have not been capable of operating under their own
power, and from which parts have been removed for reuse, salvage, or sale,
shall constitute prima facie evidence of a junk yard.
   B.   “Junk yard” means any area where waste or discarded or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, baled or packed, disassembled, stored,
abandoned, or handled, including the dismantling or “wrecking” of automobiles
or other vehicles or machinery, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and
places or yards for storage of salvage, house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment; but not including areas where such uses are conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed building.
11.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “K.”
   A.   “Kennel” means an establishment where dogs are boarded for compensation
or where dogs are bred or raised for commercial purposes or sale.
12.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “L.”
   A.   “Loading space” means a space within the main building or on the same
lot providing for the standing, loading or unloading of trucks, having minimum
dimensions of 12 feet by 35 feet and vertical clearance of at least 14 feet.
   B.   “Lot” means a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet
minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such
yards and other open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have
frontage on a dedicated or private street, and may consist of: (i) a single lot
of record or a portion of a lot of record; (ii) a combination of complete lots
of record, or portions of lots of record; or (iii) a parcel of land described
by metes and bounds, provided that in no case of subdivision shall any residual
lot or parcel be created which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   “Lot, corner” means a lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets.
   D.   “Lot, depth of” means the mean horizontal distance between the front
and rear lot lines.
   E.   “Lot, interior” means a lot other than a corner lot with only one
frontage on a street other than an alley.
   F.   “Lot of record” means a lot which is a part of a subdivision, the plat
of which has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   G.   “Lot, reversed frontage” means a through lot that is not accessible
from one of the parallel or non-intersecting streets upon which it fronts.
   H.   “Lot, through” means a lot that fronts upon two parallel streets or
that fronts upon two streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of the
lot.
   I.   “Lot width” means the width of a lot measured at the building line and
at right angles to its depth.
13.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “M.”
   A.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built, single-family structure
which is manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec.
5403, National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act, is
transportable in one or more sections, is built on a permanent chassis, and is
to be used as a place for human habitation, but which is not constructed with a
permanent hitch or other device allowing transport of the unit other than the
purpose of delivery to a permanent site, and which does not have wheels or
axles permanently attached to its body or frame. For the purposes of this
chapter, a manufactured home is considered a single-family detached dwelling. A
manufactured home is the same as a mobile home except a manufactured home must
meet the above cited U.S. Code requirements. It also must meet the State of
Iowa requirements including the non-permanent hitch, wheels, and axle as stated
herein, and is also subject to additional local requirements which are also
generally more stringent than requirements for mobile homes.
   B.   “Mobile home” means a vehicle used, or so originally constructed as to
permit being used, as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and duly
licensed as such, and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof for human habitation, dwellings, or sleeping places for one or more
persons, provided further that this definition refers to and includes all
portable contrivances used or intended to be used generally for living and
sleeping quarters and which are capable of being moved by their own power,
towed, or transported by another vehicle. This definition also includes and
applies to such vehicles or structures that are located on a permanent or
temporary foundation but does not include mobile homes converted to real estate
as defined herein.
   C.   “Mobile home converted to real estate” means an unencumbered mobile
home which has been attached to a permanent foundation on real estate owned by
the mobile home owner, which has had the vehicular frame modified or destroyed,
rendering it impossible to reconvert to a mobile home, and which has been
inspected by the assessor, the mobile home title, registration, and license
plates collected from the owner and the property entered on the tax rolls of
the County.
   D.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon
which two or more occupied mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or
for revenue purposes and includes any building, structure, vehicle, or
enclosure intended for use as part of the equipment of such mobile home park.
   E.   “Mobile home subdivision” means a subdivision created for the purpose
of and restricted to the sale or lease of individual lots for occupancy by
independent mobile homes or mobile homes converted to real estate and having
public streets, utilities, and other public facilities installation approved by
the Council in accordance with the Subdivision Regulations of the City.
   F.   “Modular home” means factory-built housing certified as meeting the
State Building Code as applicable to modular housing. Once certified by the
State, modular homes are subject to the same standards as site-built homes.
14.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “N.”
   A.   “Nonconforming structure or building” means a structure or building,
the size, location or dimensions of which were lawful prior to the adoption,
revision, or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter but that fails
by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present
requirements of the zoning district.
   B.   “Nursing home” means a home for the aged, chronically ill, or incurable
persons in which three or more persons not of the immediate family are
received, kept, and provided with food, or shelter and care, for compensation,
but not including hospitals, clinics, or similar institutions devoted primarily
to the diagnosis, treatment, or care of the sick or injured.
15.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “O.”
   A.   “Owner” means the person or persons who hold the fee simple title to
the property, and the person or persons who have acquired any interest in the
property by contract of purchase or otherwise.
16.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “P.”
   A.   “Parking space, off-street” means a surfaced area, enclosed in the main
building or in any accessory building, or unenclosed area, having an area of
not less than 180 square feet, permanently reserved for the temporary storage
of automobiles and connected with a street or alley by a surfaced driveway
which affords satisfactory ingress and egress for automobiles.
   B.   “Permanent foundation” means a site-built or site-assembled system of
stabilizing devices when the running gear assembly is removed. The foundation
may be any one or combination of the following: (i) shall be to a depth of not
less than 42 inches below grade and constructed of appropriate load bearing
materials; (ii) a floating concrete slab, a minimum of six inches deep the
entire length and width of the structure, with four #2 reinforcing bars the
entire length of the slab; (iii) grey beam construction (two concrete strips
the entire length of the structure, 40 inches wide, five feet apart, a minimum
of six inches deep with two #2 reinforcing bars); and (iv) piers, with a
minimum diameter of 16 inches, four to six feet deep and placed eight feet on
centers the entire length of the structure.
   C.   “Place” means any open unoccupied space or a public or private
thoroughfare (other than a street or alley) permanently reserved as the
principal means of access to abutting property.
   D.   “Premises” means the land together with any buildings or structures
located thereon.
17.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “Q.”
18.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “R.”
   A.   “Recycling plant” means an enclosed building (or area with view totally
obscured) within which the receipt, separation, storage, conversion, baling or
processing of paper, iron, metal, glass, newspaper, and other non-biodegradable
recyclable materials are conducted for the purpose of reutilization of such
materials.
19.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “S.”
   A.   “Setback” – See “building line.”
   B.   “Sign” means any device designed to inform or attract the attention of
persons not on the premises on which the sign is located; provided, however,
the following shall not be included in the application of the regulations
herein: (i) signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, post box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or other
identification of premises not having commercial connotations; (ii) flags and
insignia of any government except when displayed in connection with commercial
promotion; (iii) legal notices, identification, information, or directional
signs erected or required by governmental bodies; (iv) integral decorative or
architectural features of buildings, except letters, trademarks moving parts,
or moving lights; and (v) signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on
private property but bearing no advertising matter. (See also
Chapter 167)
   C.   “Solar” means any of the following types of solar systems or equipment:
      (1)   “Active solar energy system” means a solar energy system whose
primary purpose is to harvest energy by transforming solar energy into another
form of energy or transferring heat from a collector to another medium using
mechanical, electrical, or chemical means.
      (2)   “Solar Collector” means a device, structure, or a part of a device
or structure for which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy
into thermal, mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy.
      (3)   “Roof-mount” means a solar energy system mounted on a rack that is
fastened to or ballasted on a building roof. Roof-mount systems are accessory
to the principal use.
      (4)   “Ground-mount” means a solar energy system mounted on a rack or
pole that rests on or is attached to the ground. Ground-mount systems can be
either accessory or principal uses.
      (5)   “Solar garden” means a commercial solar-electric (photovoltaic)
array that provides retail electric power (or a financial proxy retail for
retail power) to multiple households or businesses residing or located off-site
from the location of the solar energy system.
      (6)   “Solar farm” means a commercial facility that converts sunlight
into electricity, whether by photovoltaics (PV), concentrating solar thermal
devises (CST), or other conversation technology, for the primary purpose of
whole sales of generated electricity.
       (7)   “Building integrated photovoltaic solar energy system” means an
active solar energy system that is an integral part of a principal or accessory
building rather than a separate mechanical device, replacing or substituting
for an architectural or structural component of the building. Building-
integrated systems include but are not limited to photovoltaic or hot water
solar energy systems that are contained within roofing materials, windows,
skylights, and awnings.
   D.   “Special exception” means a use that would not be appropriate generally
or without restriction throughout the zoning division or district but which, if
controlled as to number, area, location, or relation to the neighborhood, would
promote the public health, safety, morals, order, comfort, convenience,
appearance, prosperity, or general welfare. Such uses may be permitted in such
zoning division or district as special exceptions if specific provision for
such special exceptions is made in this chapter.
   E.   “Stable, private” means a building or structure used or intended to be
used for housing only of horses belonging to the owner of the property for non-
commercial purposes.
   F.   “Stable, public” and “riding academy” mean a building or structure used
or intended to be used for the housing only of horses on a fee basis. Riding
instruction may be given in connection with the stable or riding academy.
   G.   “Stable, riding club” means a building or structure used or intended to
be used for the housing only of horses by a group of persons for non-commercial
purposes.
   H.   “Story” means that portion of a building other than a cellar included
between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or;
if there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
   I.   “Story, half” means a partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof,
the wall plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more
than three feet above the floor of such story, except that any partial story
used for residence purposes, other than for a janitor or caretaker or his
family, or by a family occupying the floor immediately below it, shall be
deemed a full story.
   J.   “Street” means a public or private thoroughfare which affords the
principal means of access to abutting property.
   K.   “Street line” means the right-of-way of a street.
   L.   “Street width” means the width of right-of-way, measured at right
angles to the centerline of the street.
   M.   “Structure” (building) means anything , constructed, erected, or built,
the use of which requires more or less permanent location on ground and
designed for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of persons, animals,
chattels, or property of any kind, including, but without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, installations such as signs, billboards, solar
panels, communication dishes, radio towers and other facilities not designed
for storage of property or occupancy by persons.
   N.   “Subdivision” means the division of land into three or more lots, or
other division of land, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership or building development. The term relates to the process
of subdividing or to the land subdivided, or the resubdivision of land
previously divided or platted into lots or other divisions of land, or, if a
new street is involved, any division of land.
   O.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure where by the cost of restoring the structure of its before-damaged
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred.
   P.   “Substantial improvement” means a repair, reconstruction or improvement
of a structure, the costs of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market
value of the structure either (i) before the improvement is started, or (ii) if
the structure has been damaged and is being restored before the damage
occurred. Market value shall be determined by the local assessor’s office or by
two separate certified real estate evaluations. For the purposes of this
definition, “substantial improvement” is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include any alteration
to comply with existing State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety
codes or regulations as well as structures listed in national or State
registers of historic places.
20.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “T.”
   A.   “Temporary structure” means a structure without any foundation or
footings and which is removed when the designated time period, activity, or use
for which the temporary structure was erected has ceased.
   B.   “Temporary use” means a use established for a fixed period of time with
the intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time period.
   C.   “Trailer camp” or “tourist camp” means any area providing spaces for
two or more travel trailers, camping trailers, or tent sites for temporary
occupancy with necessary incidental services, sanitation, and recreation
facilities to serve the traveling public.
   D.   “Travel trailer” or “camping trailer” means a vehicle without motive
power used or so manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a
conveyance upon the public streets and highways and so designed to permit the
vehicle to be used as a place of human habitation by one or more persons. Said
vehicle may be up to eight feet in width and any length provided its gross
weight does not exceed 4,500 pounds, which shall be the manufacturer’s shipping
or the actual weight, provided its overall length does not exceed 28 feet. Such
vehicle shall be customarily or ordinarily used for vacation or recreation
purposes; if used as place of human habitation for more than 90 days in any 12-
month period, it shall be classified as a mobile home, regardless of the size
and weight limitation provided herein. This definition also includes house cars
and camp cars having motive power and designed for temporary occupancy as
herein defined.
21.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “U.”
   A.   “Use, permitted” means a public or private use which of itself conforms
with the purposes, objectives, requirements, regulations, and performance
standards of a particular district.
   B.   “Use, principal” means the main use of land or buildings as
distinguished from subordinate or accessory use. A “principal use” may be
either permitted or conditional.
22.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “V.”
   A.   “Variance” means a relaxation of the terms of this chapter where such
variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of the ordinance codified in this chapter
would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. As used in this chapter, a
variance is authorized only for height, area, and size of structure or size of
yards and open spaces. Establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited
shall not be allowed by variance, nor shall a variance be granted because of
the presence of nonconformities in the zoning district or uses in an adjoining
zoning district.
23.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “W.”
24.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “X.”
25.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “Y.”
   A.   “Yard” means an open space between a building and the adjoining lot
lines unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from 30 inches
above the ground upward. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the
width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard, or the depth of a rear yard,
the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building
shall be used.
   B.   “Yard, front” means a yard extending across the front of a lot and
being the minimum horizontal distance between the street or place line and the
main building.
   C.   “Yard, rear” means a yard extending across the rear of a lot and being
the required minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the rear
of the main building.
   D.   “Yard, side” means a yard between the main building and the side line
of the lot and extending from the required front yard to the required rear
yard, and being the minimum horizontal distance between a side lot line and the
side of the main building.
26.   Definitions For Terms Beginning With “Z.”
   A.   “Zoning Administrator” means the administrative officer designated or
appointed by the Council to administer and enforce the regulations contained in
this chapter.
165.02   ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
The City is hereby divided into districts which shall be designated as follows:
1.   A-l   Agricultural
2.   R-l   Single-Family Residential
3.   R-2   Residential – Multi-Family Dwelling
4.   R-3   Residential – Multi-Family Dwelling
5.   R-4   Manufactured/Modular/Mobile Home Park
6.   C-1   Highway Commercial
7.   C-2   General Office and Retail
8.   M-1   Industrial Park
9.   M-2   Industrial
The locations and boundaries of these districts are shown on the Official
Zoning Map.
165.03   ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
The Official Zoning Map, including the explanatory material thereon, is hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
165.04   IDENTIFICATION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor and
attested to by the City Administrator/Clerk under the following statement:
This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in the
Zoning Ordinance of Elkader, Iowa, as adopted the ______ day of
_________________, ______.
The Official Zoning Map shall be on file at City Hall and shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning status of land, buildings, and other
structures in the City.
165.05   CHANGES IN OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
No changes in the Official Zoning Map shall be made except as may be required
by amendments to this chapter under Section
165.28. If required, such changes shall be promptly made and the ordinance
number, nature of change, and date of change shall be noted on the map,
approving such change in the Official Zoning Map. Any unauthorized change of
any kind whatsoever in the Official Zoning Map by any person or persons shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section
165.04 of this chapter and have not been codified herein, but have been
specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. DATE ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. DATE ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section
165.04 of this chapter and have not been codified herein, but have been
specifically saved from repeal and are in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. DATE ADOPTED      ORDINANCE NO. DATE ADOPTED
2008-02       October 13, 2008
2013-02       September 9, 2013
2023-09       July 24, 2023
 
165.06   INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply.
1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of streets,
highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall be
construed as following such lot lines.
3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following township lines or section
lines shall be construed as following said township lines or section lines.
4.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to be
midway between the main tracks.
5.   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines of streams or other bodies
of water shall be construed to follow such shore lines, and, in the event of
change in the shore lines, shall be construed as moving with the actual shore
line; boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streams, rivers, or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such
centerlines, and, in the event of change in the centerline, shall be construed
as moving with the actual centerlines.
6.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated in
Subsections 1 through 5 above shall be so construed. Distances not specifically
indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by the scale of the
map.
7.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at variance
with those shown on the Official Zoning Map or in other circumstances not
covered by Subsections 1 through 6 above, the Board of Adjustment shall
interpret the district boundaries.
8.   Where a district boundary divides a lot of record which was in single
ownership at the time of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, the Board of Adjustment may permit, as a special exception or
variance, the extension of the regulations for either portion of the lot not to
exceed 50 feet beyond the district boundary.
165.07   SCHEDULES OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
The following schedules of district regulations are hereby adopted and declared
to be a part of this chapter:
1.   A-l   Agricultural
A-1 AGRICULTURAL A-1
A-1                          AGRICULTURAL                               A-1
STATEMENT OF INTENT:  The A-1 Agricultural District includes areas appropriate
for agricultural and related uses, and is intended to reserve areas suitable
for nonagricultural use until the land is needed for development in accordance
with the future land use plan.
PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND     MINIMUM REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING
STRUCTURES
1.   Agriculture, horticulture,
dairy farming, livestock
farming, poultry farming,
livestock waste handling
facilities, general farming, and None
other agricultural activities,
including a farm house and one
manufactured/modular home per
farmstead
2.   Single-family dwellings  2 spaces per unit
3.   Parks, playgrounds, or   5 spaces for each acre developed for active
playfields                       usage
4.   Cemetery or mausoleum    10 spaces plus 1 per acre
5.   Elementary or secondary  1 space per classroom and office plus 1 space
school, certified preschools     for every 6 seats in the main auditorium or
                                 stadium
6.   Churches and temples     1 space for every 4 seats in the main
                                 auditorium
7.   Golf courses and country
clubs (except miniature courses  3 spaces per green or 1 space for every 100
or driving ranges operated for a square feet of floor area whichever is greater
profit)
8.   Community meeting or     1 space for every 50 square feet of floor area
recreation building
9.   Bed and Breakfast        2 spaces per unit, plus one space for every
operations                       bed
10.   Railroads and public    1 space for each employee plus 1 space for
utilities                        each vehicle used by the industry
11.   Stables, kennels, and
veterinary businesses located at
least 50 feet from all boundary  2 spaces plus one space for each employee
lines of the property on which
located
12.   Hiking and horseback    2 spaces plus one space for each employee
riding trails
13.   Structures on wetlands f2 spaces
the conservation of soil
14.   Any use erected or      2 spaces
maintained by a public agency
15.   Private airport landing 2 spaces
strips and associated facilities
16.   Seed and feed dealership,
provided there is no evidence of 2 spaces plus one space for each employee
showroom or other commercial
activities
17.   Home occupations, home  2 spaces
industries
18.   Lakes, ponds, and outdoo2 spaces plus one space for each employee
recreation facilities
19.   Manufactured home on a  2 spaces
permanent foundation
PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
1.   Farm buildings incidental to agricultural uses.
2.   Private garages, swimming pools, and tennis courts.
3.   Private greenhouses not operated for commercial purposes.
4.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses or structures of this district, not involving the conduct of
business on the premises, except home occupations located on the same lot or a
contiguous lot under the same ownership.
5.   Solar collectors, either rooftop or ground-mounted, provided they comply
with Subsection
165.08(5).
6.   Roadside stands for the sale of produce raised on the premises.
7.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work, provided
that such buildings are removed promptly upon the completion of the
construction work.
8.   Railroads and utilities, but not including equipment storage or
maintenance yards and buildings or general administrative and sales offices,
provided that any substation or building shall meet the front and rear yard
requirements for dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less than 25
feet, and that two parking spaces per substation or one per employee at the
site be provided.
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES
Subject to Section
165.09 and the other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may
permit the following:
1.   Railroads and public utilities, but not including equipment storage or
maintenance yards and buildings or general administrative and sales offices,
provided that any substation or building shall meet the front and rear yard
requirements for dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less than 25
feet, and that two parking spaces per substation or one per employee at the
site be provided.
2.   Communications station and tower provided that they shall not be closer to
a dwelling or place of public assembly than a distance equal to one-half their
height, that the height and location shall not interfere with the operation of
any airport or landing strip, and that one parking space per employee and one
space for each vehicle used by the facility be provided.
3.   Radio towers and antennas which exceed the general height limitations, if
it is determined that the additional height is necessary to reasonably
accommodate amateur communications and will not be detrimental to public
health, safety, or welfare.
MINIMUM LOT AREA AND WIDTH   MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE AND REAR      MAXIMUM
                             YARDS                                      HEIGHT
Area   20,000 square feet
Width   125 feet          Dwellings and other non-institutional
The lot area shall be        uses:
increased by such amount as     Front:   35 feet
determined necessary by the     Rear:   30 feet
County Board of Health to       Side:   10 feet                   2-and-
provide an adequate             Side street, corner lot   30 feet one-
absorption field for a                                                 half
septic tank installation.    Schools, Churches, or Other Public         stories
Where a lot is served by a   or Institutional Buildings:                or
public or community water                                              35 feet
system and sanitary sewer       Front:   40 feet                   
system, the minimum lot area    Rear:   40 feet
may be reduced to 15,000        Side:   30 feet
square feet and the width to    Side street, corner lot   35 feet
100 feet.
 
PERMITTED SIGNS
(See Section
167.18 of this Code of Ordinances)
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
1.   No construction compliance certificate shall be issued for a dwelling unit
in the A-1 Agricultural District for any parcel of land that is designated for
commercial or industrial uses on the Future Land Use Plan of the City.
 
2.   R-l   Single-Family Residential
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL R-1
R-1                                SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL                  R-1
STATEMENT OF INTENT: The R-1 Single-Family Residential District is intended to
include areas of low-density residential development.
PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND        MINIMUM REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING
STRUCTURES
1.   Single-family dwellings     2 spaces per unit
2.   Parks, playgrounds, or      5 spaces for each acre developed for active usage
playfields
3.   Community meeting or        1 space for every 50 square feet of floor area
recreation building
4.   Elementary or secondary scho1 space per classroom and office plus 1 space for
                                    every 6 seats in the main auditorium or stadium
5.   Churches and temples        1 space for every 4 seats in the main auditorium
6.   Funeral parlor              1 space for each 4 seats in the main auditorium
7.   Day nurseries/centers       1 space plus 1 space for each employee
8.   Modular homes on a permanent2 spaces per unit
foundation
9.   Home occupations            2 spaces per unit
10.   Bed and Breakfast operation2 spaces per unit
11.   Hospital                   1 space for every employee, plus 15 additional
                                    spaces
12.   Group Home                 1 space for every employee, plus 2 additional
                                    spaces
PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
1.   Private garage.
2.   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
3.   Private greenhouses not operated for commercial purposes.
4.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted principal
uses or structures of this district, not involving the conduct of business on the
premises, except home occupations not employing any person outside the immediate
family and located on the same lot or a contiguous lot under the same ownership.
5.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work, provided that
such buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the construction work.
6.   Solar collectors, either rooftop or ground-mounted, provided they comply with
Section
165.08(5).
7.   Satellite dishes, provided they are constructed in the side yard or rear yard
only.
8.   Structures attached to the principal building shall be considered part of the
principal building and shall conform to the same front, side, and rear setback
regulations.
 
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES
Subject to Section
165.09 and the other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may
permit the following:
1.   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest, nursing, and convalescent homes; homes for orphans
and aged on sites of one acre or more; off-street parking and yards comparable for
other institutional uses in this chapter to be provided.
2.   Group housing/public housing developments.
3.   Swimming pools, golf courses, and country clubs, except miniature courses or
driving ranges operated for a profit.
4.   Railroads and public utilities, but not including equipment storage or
maintenance yards and buildings or general administrative and sales offices, provided
that any substation or building shall meet the front and rear yard requirements for
dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less than 25 feet, and that two parking
spaces per substation or one per employee at the site be provided.
5.   Radio towers and antennas which exceed the general height limitations if it is
determined that the additional height is necessary to reasonably accommodate amateur
communications and will not be detrimental to public health, safety or welfare.
6.   Other special exception uses as recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and approved by the Board of Adjustment.
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
1.   All new structures constructed or placed in R-1 Districts shall have a minimum
width of 20 feet and a minimum length of 24 feet as measured at the narrowest points,
excluding porches, garages and accessory buildings.
MINIMUM LOT AREA AND WIDTH         MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE AND REAR      MAXIMUM
                                   YARDS                                      HEIGHT
                                   Dwellings and other non-institutional
   Area:   9,600 square feet uses:
   Width:   80 feet             Front:   30 feet
Where a lot is not served by a        Rear:   30 feet
public or community water or          Side:
sanitary sewer system, the minimum     one story   8 feet               2-and-
lot area shall be not less than        two or more stories   10 feet    one-
20,000 square feet and shall be       Side street, corner lot   25 feet half
increased by such amount as                                                  stories
determined or necessary by the     Schools, Churches, or Other Public         or
County Board of Health to provide  or Institutional Buildings:                35 feet
an adequate absorption field for                                              
septic tank use. The width of such    Front:   35 feet
lot shall not be less than 125        Rear:   35 feet
feet.                                 Side:   20 feet
                                     Side street, corner lot   25 feet
                                    
PERMITTED SIGNS
(See Section
167.18 of this Code of Ordinances)
 
3.   R-2   Residential – Multi-Family Dwelling
R-2 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL R-2
R-2                                                                              MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL                   R-2
STATEMENT OF INTENT. The R-2 Multi-Family Residential District is intended to accommodate two-family and multi-family residential
development at a greater density that the R-1 District. It is generally limited to already developed areas but may be expanded to
include appropriate areas for new development of affordable housing or multi-family housing.
PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND STRUCTURES                                           MINIMUM REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING
1.   Single-family dwellings                                                   2 spaces per unit
2.   Modular homes on a permanent foundation                                   2 spaces per unit
3.   Condominiums                                                              2 spaces per unit
4.   Two-family dwellings                                                      2 spaces per unit
5.   Multiple-family dwelling                                                  2 spaces per unit
6.   Community meeting or recreation building                                  1 space for every 50 square feet of floor area
7.   Park, playground, or playfield                                            5 spaces for each acre developed for active usage
8.   Elementary or secondary school                                            1 space per classroom and office plus 1 space for
                                                                                  every 6 seats in the main auditorium or stadium
9.   Private kindergartens, day nurseries, day-care centers                    2 spaces plus 1 space for each employee
10.   Churches and temples                                                     1 space for every 4 seats in the main auditorium
11.   Group housing, public housing developments                               1 space per unit
12.   Rooming or boarding house                                                1 space for every 2 beds
13.   Home occupations                                                         2 spaces plus one for each employee
14.   Bed and breakfast operations                                             2 spaces plus one for each bedroom
15.   Funeral home                                                             2 spaces
16.   Hospital                                                                 1 space for every employee, plus 15 additional
                                                                                  spaces
17.   Cemetery                                                                 10 spaces plus 1 per acre
18.   Nursing home/care facility                                               1 space for every employee, plus 6 additional
                                                                                  spaces
PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
1.   Private garages.
2.   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
3.   Private greenhouses not operated for commercial purposes.
4.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted principal uses or structures of this district, not
involving the conduct of business on the premises, except home occupations located on the same lot or a contiguous lot under the
same ownership.
5.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work, provided that such buildings are removed promptly upon
completion of the construction work.
6.   Solar collectors, either rooftop or ground-mounted, provided they comply with Section
165.08(5).
7.   Satellite dishes
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES
Subject to Section
165.09 and the other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may permit the following:
1.   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest, nursing and convalescent homes; homes for orphans and aged on sites of one acre or more; off-
street parking and yards comparable for other institutional uses of this chapter be provided.
2.   Railroads and public utilities; but not including equipment storage or maintenance yards and buildings or general
administrative and sales offices; provided that any substation or building shall meet the front and rear yard requirements for
dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less than 25 feet, and that two parking spaces per substation or one per employee at
the site be provided.
3.   Any use permitted in the R-1 District, subject to any reasonable requirement as imposed by the Board of Adjustment.
4.   Radio towers and antennas which exceed the general height limitations if it is determined that the additional height is
necessary to reasonably accommodate amateur communications and will not be detrimental to public health, safety or welfare.
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
1.   All new structures constructed or placed in R-2 Districts shall have a minimum width of 20 feet and a minimum length of 24
feet as measured at the narrowest points, excluding porches, garages and accessory buildings.
MINIMUM LOT AREA AND WIDTH                                                       MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE AND REAR      MAXIMUM
                                                                                 YARDS                                      HEIGHT
                                                                                 Dwellings and other non-institutional
                                                                                 uses:
                                                                                    Front:   25 feet
                                                                                    Rear:   25 feet
Single-family Dwellings:                                                            Side:   8 feet
   Area:   9,600 square feet                                                  Side street, corner lot   20 feet
   Width:   60 feet                                                                                                  2-and-
Two-family Dwellings:                                                            Schools, Churches or Other Public          one-
   Area:   9,600 square feet                                               or Institutional Buildings:                half
   Width:   60 feet                                                                                                  stories
Multi-family Dwelling:                                                              Front:   35 feet                  or
   Area:   7,200 square feet for the first unit plus 1,500 square feet for    Rear:   35 feet                   35 feet
additional unit up to 12, and 750 square feet for each additional unit over 12.     Side:   20 feet                    
   Width:      80 feet                                                     Side street, corner lot   25 feet
                                                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
PERMITTED SIGNS
(See Section
167.18 of this Code of Ordinances)
 
4.   R-3   Residential – Multi-Family Dwelling
R-3 RESIDENTIAL           R-3
    MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING
                                                                                 RESIDENTIAL

R-3                                                                              MULTI-      R-3
                                                                                 FAMILY
                                                                                 DWELLING
STATEMENT OF INTENT. The R-3 Multi-family Residential District is intended to accommodate two-family and multi-family
residential development at a greater density that the R-1 District. It is generally limited to already developed areas but
may be expanded to include appropriate areas for new development of affordable housing or multi-family housing.
PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND STRUCTURES                                           MINIMUM REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING
1.   Single-family dwellings                                                   2 spaces per unit
2.   Manufactured/Modular homes on a permanent foundation                      2 spaces per unit
3.   Condominiums                                                              2 spaces per unit
4.   Two-family dwellings                                                      2 spaces per unit
5.   Multiple-family dwellings                                                 2 spaces per unit
6.   Community meeting or recreation building                                  1 space for every 50 square feet of floor
                                                                                  area.
7.   Park, playground, or playfield                                            5 spaces for each acre developed for active
                                                                                  usage
                                                                                  1 space per classroom and office plus one
8.   Elementary or secondary school                                            space for every 6 seats in the main
                                                                                  auditorium or stadium
9.   Private kindergartens, day nurseries, day-care centers                    2 spaces plus 1 space for each employee
10.   Churches and temples                                                     1 space for every 4 seats in the main
                                                                                  auditorium
11.   Group housing, public housing developments                               1 space per unit
12.   Rooming or boarding house                                                1 space for every 2 beds
13.   Home occupations                                                         2 spaces plus one for each employee
14.   Bed and breakfast operations                                             2 spaces plus one for each bedroom
PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
1.   Private garages.
2.   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
3.   Private greenhouses not operated for commercial purposes.
4.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted principal uses or structures of this district, not
involving the conduct of business on the premises, except home occupations located on the same lot or a contiguous lot under
the same ownership.
5.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work, provided that such buildings are removed promptly upon
completion of the construction work.
6.   Solar collectors, either rooftop or ground-mounted, provided they comply with Section
165.08(5).
7.   Satellite dishes.
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES
Subject to Section
165.09 and the other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may permit the following:
1.   Hospitals; sanitariums, rest, nursing, and convalescent homes; homes for orphans and aged on sites of one acre or more;
off-street parking and yards comparable for other institutional uses of this chapter to be provided.
2.   Railroads and public utilities, but not including equipment storage or maintenance yards and buildings or general
administrative and sales offices, provided that any substation or building shall meet the front and rear yard requirements
for dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less than 25 feet, and that two parking spaces per substation or one per
employee at the site be provided.
3.   Any use permitted in the R-1 District, subject to any reasonable requirement as imposed by the Board of Adjustment.
4.   Radio towers and antennas which exceed the general height limitations if it is determined that the additional height is
necessary to reasonably accommodate amateur communications and will not be detrimental to public health, safety or welfare.
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
1.   For any manufactured/mobile home/modular home development, all provisions of
Chapter 146 of this Code of Ordinances shall be adhered to.
MINIMUM LOT AREA AND WIDTH                                                       MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE AND     MAXIMUM
                                                                                 REAR YARDS                           HEIGHT
                                                                                 Dwellings and other non-
                                                                                 institutional uses:
                                                                                    Front:   25 feet
                                                                                    Rear:   25 feet
Single-family Dwellings:                                                            Side:   8 feet
   Area:   9,600 square feet                                                  Side street, corner lot   20 feet
   Width:   60 feet                                                                                            2-and-
Two-family Dwellings:                                                            Schools, Churches or Other Public    one-
   Area:   9,600 square feet                                               or Institutional Buildings:          half
   Width:   60 feet                                                                                            stories
Multi-family Dwelling:                                                              Front:   35 feet            or
   Area:   7,200 square feet for the first unit plus 1,500 square feet for    Rear:   35 feet             35 feet
additional unit up to 12, and 750 square feet for each additional unit over 12.     Side:   20 feet              
   Width:      80 feet                                                     Side street, corner lot   25 feet
                                                                                 
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
PERMITTED SIGNS
(See Section
167.18 of this Code of Ordinances)
 
5.   R-4   Manufactured/Modular/Mobile Home Park
R-4 MANUFACTURED/MODULAR/     R-4
    MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT
R-4                                                                              MANUFACTURED/MODULAR/                      R-4
                                                                                 MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT
STATEMENT OF INTENT. Manufactured/modular or mobile homes used for dwelling purposes shall be placed only in mobile home parks except
as determined herein. A mobile home park may be established only in R-4 designated districts.
PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND STRUCTURES                                           MINIMUM REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING
1.   Single-family units                                                       2 spaces per unit
2.   Two-family units                                                          2 spaces per unit
3.   Parks and recreation area not operated for profit                         5 spaces for each acre developed for active usage
4.   Community meeting or recreation building not operated for profit          1 space for every 100 square feet of floor area.
5.   Nursery schools and day care centers                                      3 spaces plus 1 for each employee
6.   Laundromat                                                                1 space per 300 square feet of floor area
PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
1.   Private garages.
2.   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
3.   Private greenhouses not operated for commercial purposes.
4.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted principal uses or structures of this district, not
involving the conduct of business on the premises, except home occupations, located on the same lot or a contiguous lot under the
same ownership.
5.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work, provided that such buildings are removed promptly upon
completion of the construction work.
6.   Solar collectors, either rooftop or ground-mounted, provided they comply with Section
165.08(5).
7.   Satellite dishes.
8.   A detached building shall be located a minimum of five feet from the principal structure, and 10 feet from the front property
line.
9.   Structures attached to the principal building shall be considered part of the principal building and shall conform to the same
front, side, and rear setback regulations.
10.   Garages opening onto the alley shall have a rear yard of five feet.
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES
Subject to Section
165.09 and the other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may permit the following:
1.   Hospitals; sanitariums, rest, nursing and convalescent homes; homes for orphans and aged on sites of one acre or more; off-
street parking and yards comparable for other institutional uses of this chapter to be provided.
2.   Public utilities, but not including equipment storage or maintenance yards and buildings or general administrative and sales
offices, provided that any substation or building shall meet the front and rear yard requirements for dwellings and shall provide
side yards of not less than 25 feet, and that two parking places per substation or one per employee at the site be provided.
3.   Group housing developments.
4.   Swimming pools, golf courses and country clubs, except miniature courses or driving ranges operated for a profit.
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
1.   For any manufactured/mobile home/modular home development, all provisions of
Chapter 146 of this Code of Ordinances shall be adhered to.
MINIMUM LOT AREA AND WIDTH                                                       MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE AND REAR      MAXIMUM
                                                                                 YARDS                                      HEIGHT
                                                                                    Front:   15 feet
                                                                                    Rear:   15 feet
                                                                                    Side:                                2 stories
                                                                                     single wide   3 feet             or
Mobile Home:                                                                         double wide   10 feet            20 feet
   Area:   5,500 square feet                                                  Side street, corner lot   15 feet  
   Width:   50 feet                                                                                                   
Permanent Single-family Unit:                                                                                               
   Area:   9,600 square feet                                               For Permanent Built Homes:                 For
   Width:   60 feet                                                                                                  Permanent
Permanent Two-family Unit:                                                          Front:   25 feet                  Built
   Area:   7,200 square feet for the first unit plus 1,500 square feet for    Rear:   25 feet                   Homes:
second unit.                                                                        Side:                                2 -and-
   Width:      80 feet                                                      one story   8 feet               one-half
                                                                                    two or more stories   10 feet    stories
                                                                                                                           or
                                                                                                                           35 feet
                                                                                  
                                                                                  
PERMITTED SIGNS
(See Section
167.18 of this Code of Ordinances)
 
6.   C-1   Highway Commercial
C-1 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL C-1
C-1        HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL                                                                  C-1
STATEMENT OF INTENT:  The C-1 Highway Commercial District is intended to accommodate uses which
ordinarily serve the traveling public and commercial uses which generally require land area and access
to a major traffic artery.
PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND STRUCTURES                  MINIMUM REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING
1.   Automotive display, sales, service, and repair   1 space for every 300 square feet of sales,
2.   Lumber yard or building materials sales yard     service or office
3.   Dry cleaners or laundry                          floor area
4.   Monument and marker display and sales
5.   Greenhouse and plant nursery                     1 space for every 100 square feet
6.   Restaurant, night club, cafe or tavern           of floor area
7.   Dance hall and skating rink                      1 space for every 100 square feet of floor
                                                         area
8.   Bowling alley                                    5 spaces for each lane or alley
9.   Drive-in bank                                    4 spaces for each teller window
10.   Motel, hotel or tourist camp                    1 space per unit
11.   Dwelling unit above a store or shop             1 space per unit
12.   Bus terminal                                    6 spaces plus 1 off-street loading space for
                                                         each bus serving the terminal
13.   Funeral parlor                                  1 space for each 4 seats in the main
                                                         auditorium
14.   Farm implement display, sales, service and repai1 space for every 300 square feet of
15.   Railroads and public utilities but not includingsales, service or office floor area used
storage or maintenance yards and buildings               by the industry
16.   Boats, motors, travel trailers, and mobile home
display, sales, service, and repair
17.   Rental storage facilities
18.   Retail businesses
19.   Personal service and repair shops               1 space for every 100 square feet of sales,
                                                         service
20.   Business and professional offices and studios   and office floor area
21.   Laboratories or research establishments
22.   General administrative offices
23.   Brewery (production is limited to 200,000 gallon1 space for every 300 feet of sales, service
per year)                                                or office floor area used by the industry
24.   Brewpub (production is limited to 200,000 gallon1 space for every 100 square feet of floor
per year)                                                area
PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
1.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted principal uses or
structures of this district.
2.   Storage warehouses used in conjunction with the permitted principal uses or structures of this
district.
3.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work, provided that such buildings are
removed promptly upon completion of the construction work.
4.   Solar collectors, either rooftop or ground-mounted, provided they comply with Section
165.08(5).
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES
1.   Radio towers and antennas which exceed the general height limitations if it is determined that
the additional height is necessary to reasonably accommodate amateur communications and will not be
detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare.
2.   Other special exception uses as recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by
the Board of Adjustment.
MINIMUM    MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT                                                              MAXIMUM
LOT AREA   AND SIDE YARDS                                                                      HEIGHT
AND WIDTH
              Front:   20 feet                                                           2-and-
Commercial    Street Side, corner lot:   15 feet                                         one-
Uses: None                                                                                    half
                                                                                             stories
          Where an apartment is in conjunction with a store or shop, a rear yard of 20 feet   or
          shall be provided and where adjacent to an “A” or “R” District, a side yard 35 feet
           feet and a rear yard of 20 feet shall be provided.                                   
                                                                                                
PERMITTED SIGNS
(See Section
167.18 of this Code of Ordinances)
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
1.   No outside storage shall be permitted for rental storage facilities.
 
7.   C-2   General Office and Retail
C-2 GENERAL OFFICE AND RETAIL DISTRICT C-2
C-2        GENERAL OFFICE AND RETAIL DISTRICT                                            C-2
STATEMENT OF INTENT:  The General Office and Retail District is intended to accommodate the
Central Business District, where parking is severely limited, and the minimum required yard
requirements are waived.
PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND STRUCTURES                         MINIMUM REQUIRED OFF-STREET
                                                                PARKING
1.   Dry cleaners
2.   Bus terminal
3.   Clubs and lodges
4.   Retail businesses                                       No
5.   Personal service and repair shops
6.   Business and professional offices and studios           off-street parking
7.   Medical, dental, chiropractic clinics
8.   Restaurants, night club, cafe or tavern                 required
9.   Public buildings and utilities but not including storage
or maintenance yards or buildings
10.   Public garages, public/private storage garages, and
parking lots
11.   Plumbing and heating sales, service and repair shops
12.   Hotels and motels
13.   Printing, publishing, and engraving
14.   Dance or music schools
15.   Commercial amusements
16.   Wholesale display and salesroom
17.   Brewery (production is limited to 200,000 gallons per  1 space for every 300 feet of
year)                                                           sales, service, or office floor
                                                                area used by the industry
18.   Brewpub (production is limited to 200,000 gallons per  1 space for every 100 square
year)                                                           feet of floor area
19.   Dwelling unit above a store or shop                    1 space per dwelling unit
PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
1.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted principal uses or
structures of this district.
2.   Storage warehouses used in conjunction with the permitted principal uses or structures of
this district.
3.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work, provided that such
buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the construction work.
4.   Rooftop solar collectors, provided they comply with Section
165.08(5).
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES
1.   Any use permitted in the C-1 District, subject to any reasonable requirement as imposed by
the Board of Adjustment.
2.   Radio towers and antennas which exceed the general height limitations if it is determined
that the additional height is necessary to reasonably accommodate amateur communications and
will not be detrimental to public health, safety or welfare.
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
1.   No dwelling units shall be permitted in any basement of any commercial building. Second
story apartments will be permitted in commercial buildings subject to approval by the Fire
Chief.
2.   If a building or structure connected on one or two sides to another building or structure
is destroyed, the original building or structure needs to, at the vary least, appear to be
within one story in height of the neighboring buildings.
MINIMUM    MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE                                                  MAXIMUM
LOT AREA   AND REAR YARDS                                                                HEIGHT
AND WIDTH
Commercial Commercial Uses: None, except where an apartment is in conjunction with a     4
Uses: None store or shop, a rear yard of 20 feet shall be provided, and where adjacent   stories
          to an “R” District, a front or side yard of 10 feet and a rear yard of 20 or
          feet shall be provided.                                                       50 feet
                                                                                        
PERMITTED SIGNS
(See Section
167.18 of this Code of Ordinances)
 
8.   M-1   Industrial Park
M-1 INDUSTRIAL PARK M-1
M- INDUSTRIAL PARK                                                                                                      M-1
1
STATEMENT OF INTENT:  The M-1 Light Industrial District is designed to accommodate various industrial and warehousing uses and
through the use of appropriate standards, encourage the development of an area that will have minimal adverse effects on
adjoining properties.
PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND STRUCTURES                                       MINIMUM REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING
1.   Manufacturing and processing uses that are wholly contained within a  1 space for every 2 employees, plus 1 space for
building and create no offensive noise, dust, odor, or vibration              each
                                                                              vehicle used by the industry
2.   Wholesaling and warehousing uses but not including the bulk storage of
liquid fertilizer or petroleum used by the industry
3.   Farm implement display, sales, service, and storage
4.   Lumber yard and building material sale and storage
5.   Truck and freight terminal                                            1 space for every 2 employees per shift, plus 1
                                                                              space for
6.   Automotive and truck display, sales, repair and storage               each vehicle used by the industry
7.   Tool, die, gauge, and machine shops
8.   Railroads and public utilities including storage and maintenance yards
9.   Animal hospital                                                       1 place for every 400 square feet of sales,
                                                                              service or office floor area
10.   Laboratories or research establishments                              1 place for every 2 employees, plus 1 place for
                                                                              each vehicle used by the industry
11.   General administrative offices                                       1 place for every 2 employees, plus 1 place for
                                                                              each vehicle used by the industry
12.   Rental storage facilities                                            1 place for each employee plus 1 place for each
                                                                              vehicle used by the industry
PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
1.   Uses and structures clearly incidental to the permitted principal uses or structures of this district.
2.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work provided that such buildings are removed promptly upon
completion of the construction work.
3.   Dwelling units for watchmen or caretakers employed on the premises provided that an open yard of at least 2,400 square
feet is reserved and maintained for use by the occupants.
4.   Solar collectors, either rooftop or ground-mounted, provided they comply with Section
165.08(5).
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES
1.   Any use permitted in the C-1 District, subject to any reasonable requirement as imposed by the Board of Adjustment.
2.   Radio towers and antennas which exceed the general height limitations if it is determined that the additional height is
necessary to reasonably accommodate amateur communications and will not be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare.
 
MINIMUM LOT AREA AND WIDTH                                                    MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE AND REAR     MAXIMUM
                                                                              YARDS                                     HEIGHT
                                                                                 Front:   25 feet
                                                                                 Rear:   25 feet
                                                                                Side:   20 feet                  60 feet
None                                                                             Side Street, corner lot   25 feet 
                                                                                                                       
                                                                               
                                                                               
PERMITTED SIGNS
(See Section
167.18 of this Code of Ordinances)
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
1.   Exterior storage other than the display of finished products for retail sale shall be enclosed by a six-foot high fence or
suitable landscaping planting, the design or type of which shall be approved by the Commission, and which will screen the
stored materials from the view of adjacent public streets, places of public assembly, parks, recreation areas, and residential
properties.
2.   No raw material, finished product, or waste product which may cause dust or odor which would adversely affect adjoining
properties shall be stored outside a building, nor shall any other junk, debris, or waste product be permitted to accumulate on
the site.
3.   For rental storage facilities, outside storage shall be permitted only in the rear lot area provided the area is enclosed
with an eight-foot chain link fence.
 
9.   M-2   Industrial
M-2 INDUSTRIAL M-2
M-2         INDUSTRIAL                                         M-2
                                                              MINIMUM
PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND STRUCTURES                       REQUIRED OFF-
                                                              STREET PARKING
                                                              1 space for
                                                              every 2
                                                              employees plus
1.   Manufacturing and processing uses.                    1 space for
                                                              each vehicle
                                                              used by the
                                                              industry
                                                              1 space for
                                                              every 200
2.   Animal hospital                                       square feet of
                                                              sales, service
                                                              or office floor
                                                              area
3.   Wholesaling and warehousing not including the bulk
storage of liquid fertilizer or petroleum products under
pressure
4.   Farm implement display, sales, service and repair
5.   Lumber yard and building material sale and storage
6.   Truck and freight terminal
7.   Truck display, sales, repair and storage              1 space for
                                                              each employee
8.   Grain storage bins
                                                              plus 1 space
9.   Grain elevator and feed mill                          for each
                                                              vehicle
10.   Welding and repair shop
11.   Tool, die, gauge and machine shops                   used by the
                                                              industry
12.   Public utilities including storage and maintenance
yards
13.   Automobile paint and body shops
14.   Plumbing, heating, air conditioning and sheet metal
shops
15.   Processing and handling of cheese, butter and other
milk products
16.   Concrete products manufacture and central mixing and
proportioning plant
17.   Fertilizer manufacture or blending
18.   Iron and steel fabrication
19.   Rental storage facilities
20.   Communications structures
21.   Solar farm or solar garden
All uses shall provide at least one loading space for each 10,000 square feet
of floor area.
PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
1.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses or structures of this district.
2.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work provided
that such buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the construction
work.
3.   Dwelling units for watchmen or caretakers employed on the premises
provided that an open yard of at least 2,400 square feet is reserved and
maintained for use by the occupants.
4.   Solar collectors, either rooftop or ground-mounted, provided they comply
with Section
165.08(5).
 
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES
Subject to Section
165.09 and the other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment
may permit the following:
1.   Stockyards, rendering works, loading pens, buying stations and/or sale
barns and yards, commercial feedlots, and commercial poultry raising,
provided that it is not closer than one-fourth (¼) mile to any dwelling unit
other than that of the owner or operator, or any park, school, church or
place of public assembly, and that the provisions of drainage, sanitation,
waste disposal, and fly control are approved by the Local Health officer, and
that it is located so that prevailing winds will not cause dust or odors to
create a nuisance for developed properties in the vicinity; and that one
parking space for each employee and one space for each vehicle used by the
industry be provided.
2.   Auto wrecking and junk yards on sites of ten (10) acres or more,
provided that the front yard be maintained as an open space free of weeds and
debris; that the site be enclosed with an 8-foot high fence or a suitable
landscape planting that will screen the operation from the view of adjacent
public streets and places of public assembly, parks, recreation areas and
residential properties; and that a minimum of one parking space for each
employee and one space for each vehicle used by the facility be provided.
3.   Any use permitted in the M-1 District, subject to any reasonable
requirement as imposed by the Board of Adjustment.
 
MINIMUM LOT
AREA AND    MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE AND REAR YARDS        MAXIMUM HEIGHT
WIDTH
               Front:   25 feet
               Rear:   25 feet
              Side:   20 feet                           None
None           Side Street, corner lot   25 feet          
                                                              
             
             
PERMITTED SIGNS
(See Section
167.18 of this Code of Ordinances)
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
1.   No raw material, finished product or waste product which may cause dust
or odor which would adversely affect adjoining properties shall be stored
outside a building nor shall any other debris or waste product be permitted
to accumulate on the site.
2.   For rental storage facilities, outside storage shall be permitted only
in the rear lot area provided the area is enclosed with an 8-foot chain link
fence.
 
 
165.08   SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
Subject to Section
165.07, the following provisions, regulations or exceptions shall apply equally
to all districts except as hereinafter provided.
1.   Fences. Fences, walls, hedges and trees are permitted in all districts in
accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   No barbed wire or electric fence.
   B.   On a corner lot in any district, except in the C-2 General Office and
Retail District, no fence, wall, hedge, or other planting or structure that
will obstruct vision between a height of two feet and 10 feet above the
centerline grades of the intersecting streets shall be erected, placed, or
maintained within the triangular area formed by connecting the right-of-way
lines at points which are 25 feet distant from the intersecting of the right-
of-way lines, and measured along the right-of-way lines.
   C.   Fences or hedges shall not exceed four feet in height in any required
front yard, and shall not exceed six feet in height in any required side or
rear yard.
   D.   Fences shall be constructed with the finished side facing the
neighboring property.
   E.   Fences may be erected to within two feet of the property line.
2.   Residential Building Restrictions.
   A.   Definitions. As used herein a “residence” is a building used
exclusively for a dwelling. “Residential accessory use” means a building or
structure customarily used in conjunction with a dwelling, namely a garage with
a capacity of not more than three cars, a tool house or “summer” house not
exceeding 100 square feet in floor area, or a private swimming pool properly
fenced and screened.
   B.   Setback. No residential building or residential accessory use building
shall be erected hereafter on a lot closer to the street property line on which
it fronts than the setback of the nearest adjacent building and in no event
shall any new construction be made closer than 20 feet from the front lot line.
No residential building or residential accessory use building shall be built
hereafter closer than eight feet from the side lot lines and overhangs shall be
no closer than six feet from the side lots lines, regardless of the compliance
of the main foundation with this setback rule.
3.   Commercial Building Restrictions.
   A.   Definition. A “commercial building” is a building used particularly or
exclusively for business purposes.
   B.   Setback. Except for buildings located in the Central Business District,
no commercial building shall be erected on a lot closer to the street property
line on which it fronts and the setback of the nearest adjacent building, and
in no event shall any new construction be made closer than 20 feet from the
front line.
4.   Accessory Buildings. No accessory building shall be erected in any
required front yard and no separate accessory buildings shall be erected within
five feet of any main building or within five feet of a rear or side lot line.
   A.   Accessory buildings on skids shall require a building permit.
   B.   The total combined square footage of any accessory building or
buildings shall not exceed the total square footage or the “foot print” of the
principal structure.
   C.   No accessory building shall be allowed on any vacant lot in any “R”
District prior to the construction of the principal structure.
   D.   The height of any accessory building shall not exceed the height of the
principal structure.
5.   Active solar energy systems allowed as an accessory use in a zoning
district shall be subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Height. Active solar energy systems must meet the following height
requirements:
      (1)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed the maximum
allowed height in any zoning district. For purposes of height measurement,
solar energy systems other than building-integrated systems, the height
regulation exception set forth in Section
165.08(7) shall apply.
      (2)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 20 feet in
height when oriented at maximum tilt.
   B.   Set-back. Active solar energy systems must meet the accessory structure
setback for the zoning district and primary land use associated with the lot on
which the system is located.
      (1)   Roof-mounted Solar Energy Systems. In addition to the building
setback, the collector surface and mounting devices for roof-mounted solar
energy systems shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building
on which the system is mounted or built, unless the collector and mounting
system has been explicitly engineered to safely extend beyond the edge, and
setback standards are not violated. Solar collectors mounted on the sides of
buildings and serving as awnings are considered to be building-integrated
systems and are regulated as awnings.
      (2)   Ground-mounted Solar Energy Systems. Ground-mounted solar energy
systems may not extend into the side-yard or rear setback when oriented at
minimum design tilt, except as otherwise allowed for building mechanical
systems.
   C.   Visibility. Solar energy systems shall be designed to blend into the
architecture of the building as described in Section
165.08(5)(C)(2), unless otherwise screened from routine view from public
rights-of-way other than alleys. The color of the solar collector is not
required to be consistent with other roofing materials.
      (1)   Building Integrated Photovoltaic Systems. Building integrated
photovoltaic solar energy systems shall be allowed regardless of whether the
system is visible from the public right-of-way, provided the building component
in which the system is integrated meets all required setback, land use, or
performance standards for the district in which the building is located.
      (2)   Roof and Ground Mounted Solar Energy Systems. Solar energy systems
using roof mounting devices or ground-mount solar energy systems shall not be
restricted for aesthetic reasons if the system is not visible from the closest
edge of any public right-of-way other than an alley. Roof-mount systems that
are visible from the nearest edge of the street frontage right-of-way shall not
have a highest finished pitch steeper than the roof pitch on which the system
is mounted, and shall be no higher than 12 inches above the roof.
      (3)   Reflectors. All solar energy systems using a reflector to enhance
solar production shall minimize glare from the reflector affecting adjacent or
nearby properties. Measures to minimize glare include selective placement of
the system, screening on the north side of the solar array, modifying the
orientation of the system, reducing use of the reflector system, or other
remedies that limit glare.
   D.   Coverage. Roof or building mounted solar energy systems, excluding
building-integrated systems, shall allow for adequate roof access for fire-
fighting purposes. Ground-mount systems shall not exceed half the building
footprint of the principal structure, and shall be exempt from impervious
surface calculations if the soil under the collector is not compacted and
maintained in vegetation. Foundations, gravel, or compacted soils are
considered impervious.
   E.   Historic Buildings. Solar energy systems on buildings within designated
historic districts or on locally designated historic buildings (exclusive of
State or federal historic designation) must receive approval of the Main Street
Elkader Design Committee, consistent with the standards for solar energy
systems on historically designated buildings published by the U.S. Department
of Interior.
   F.   There shall be a rebuttable presumption any components of an active
solar energy system that are not operated for a continuous period of 12 months
shall be considered abandoned. This presumption may be rebutted by showing the
same serves as auxiliary, backup, or emergency equipment or is otherwise not
abandoned. Any components of an active solar energy system deemed abandoned and
all related equipment shall be removed within 90 days following receipt of
notice from the City to remove the same. The owner or operator of the abandoned
components shall be jointly and severally responsible for their removal. If the
abandoned components are not removed within 90 days of written notice from the
City, the City may remove the same and recover from the owner or operator of
the same all costs incurred by the City as a result, including reasonable
attorneys' fees and court costs.
6.   More Than One Principal Structure on a Lot. In any district, more than one
principal structure housing a permitted principal use may be erected on a
single lot provided that the area, yard and other requirements of this chapter
are met for each structure as though it were on an individual lot.
7.   Height Regulation Exception. The height limitations contained in the
schedules of district regulations do not apply to grain storage bins, grain
elevators, feed mills, or to spires, belfries, cupolas, chimneys, antennas,
water tanks, ventilators, roof-mounted solar energy systems, elevator housings,
or other structures placed above the roof level and not intended for human
occupancy.
8.   Use of Public Right-of-way. No portion of the public road, street or alley
rights-of-way shall be used or occupied by an abutting use of land or
structures for storage or display purposes, or to provide any parking or
loading space required by this chapter, or for any other purpose that would
obstruct the use or maintenance of the public right-of-way.
9.   Proposed Use Not Covered in Chapter. Any proposed use not covered in this
chapter as a permitted use or special exception shall be referred to the
Commission for a recommendation as to the proper district in which such use
should be permitted and the chapter amended before a permit is issued for such
proposed use.
10.   Buildings to Have Access. Every building hereafter erected or
structurally altered, shall be on a lot or parcel having a frontage on a public
street or road.
11.   Mobile Homes or Trailers. Mobile homes occupied as a permanent or
temporary place of residence shall be located only in an approved mobile home
park or mobile home subdivision.
12.   Agricultural Uses. Any vacant parcel of land, regardless of size, in any
district may be used for agricultural purposes, the raising of feed and grain
crops, fruit, or vegetables, provided that no livestock, poultry, or other
animals other than customary household pets shall be kept.
13.   Off-Street Parking. No parking space required by this chapter shall be
located within the required front yard in a residential district, and no
required parking space, driveway or any merchandise display or exterior storage
shall be maintained in any required front yard or in the first five feet inside
the property line of any required side or rear yard in a “C” or “M” District.
14.   Adult Entertainment Establishments. Because of their special
characteristics, adult entertainment establishments are recognized as having
potential deleterious impacts on surrounding establishments and areas, thereby
contributing to the creation of blight and decline of neighborhoods. The
following regulations apply to all adult entertainment establishments.
   A.   Adult entertainment establishments are allowed only in the M-2 Zoning
District.
   B.   No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet
of any other establishment.
   C.   No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet
of any school, church or residential zoning district. To determine minimum
separation distances, measurements shall be taken on a direct line from the
closest customer entrance of the establishment to the nearest property line of
any other establishment, school, church or residential zoning district.
   D.   All building openings, entries, windows, etc., shall be covered or
screened in such a manner as to prevent a view into the interior from any
public or semipublic area
   E.   Provide signage at the entrance stipulating that persons under age 18
are not permitted inside.
   F.   Signage. All signs for adult establishments shall be flat wall signs.
The maximum allowable sign area shall be one square foot of sign area per foot
of lot frontage on the street, but under no circumstances may a sign exceed 32
square feet. The maximum number of signs shall be one per lot frontage. Signs
otherwise permitted pursuant to this subsection shall contain only (i) the name
of the adult establishment conducted on the licensed premises, and/or (ii) the
specific type of adult entertainment business conducted on the licensed
premises. Temporary signage and banner signage shall not be permitted in
connection with any adult establishment.
15.   Repurposed Shipping Containers.
   A.   Definitions. For purposes of this chapter, the term “repurposed
shipping container” shall mean:
      (1)   Any container or vessel designed for or used in the storage,
shipping, movement or transportation of cargo, freight, goods, equipment, or
commodities when adapted or modified for human habitation, occupancy, or use;
and/or
      (2)   Any container or vessel designed to be, or capable of being,
mounted or moved by rail, truck, or ship by means of being mounted on a chassis
or other transport device, including portable on-site storage containers
(PODS), or units having similar characteristics when adapted or modified for
human habitation, occupancy, or use.
   B.   Restrictions Applicable to Repurposed Shipping Containers. Repurposed
shipping containers shall be permitted in all zoning districts except C2 as
principal or accessory buildings (whether singular or in a combination):
(Paragraph B – Ord. 2024-01 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
      (1)   Provided the same comply with all requirement for site-built
structures constructed for a similar use, including but not limited to
compliance with all applicable setbacks;
      (2)   The container is placed on gravel or skids to prevent the bottom
from rusting;
      (3)   In residential zoning, if used as an accessory building other than
a garage, the container does not exceed twenty (20) feet in length;
      (4)   If the placement of such temporary storage container is required in
order to accommodate the storage of personal property or construction material
while moving or rehabilitating a structure, property owner shall obtain a
permit for no longer than thirty (30) days. The container is prohibited from
being placed on public property, including the right-of-way.
      (5)   No shipping containers should be allowed in a floodplain.
      (6)   Repurposed shipping containers shall be free of alpha-numeric
identifiers typically utilized in the shipment of cargo.
(Subsection 15 – Ord. 2023-07 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
165.09   APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
Subject to Section
165.07, the regulations and restrictions of this chapter shall apply as
follows:
1.   Regulations To Be Uniformly Applied. The regulations set by this chapter
shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, and
particularly within each district, except as hereinafter provided.
2.   All Uses and Structures to Conform. No building, structure, or land shall
hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof
shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally
altered unless in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for
the district in which it is located.
3.   Height, Density, or Yards Shall Not Be Violated. No building or other
structure shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed the height, to
accommodate or house a greater number of families, or to have narrower or
smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or other open spaces than herein
required or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
4.   Separate Yards, Open Space, and Off-Street Parking Required. No part of a
yard, other than open space or off-street parking or loading space required
about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying with this
chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking
or loading space similarly required for any other building.
5.   Minimum Yards and Lot Areas May Not Be Reduced. No yard or lot existing at
the time of passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall be reduced
in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or
lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall meet at least the
minimum requirements established by this chapter.
6.   New Areas. All territory which may hereafter become a part of the
incorporated area of the City through annexation shall be classified in the A-
1 Agricultural District until otherwise classified, provided that the
Commission may recommend the appropriate district classification prior to such
territory becoming a part of the City and upon holding of a public hearing and
approval by the Council, the territory, upon becoming part of the community,
may immediately be so classified.
165.10   NONCONFORMITIES.
Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments that may later
be adopted, there exist lots, structures, and uses of land and structures which
were lawful before the Zoning Ordinance was adopted or amended but which would
be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this chapter or
future amendment. Subject to Section
165.07, it is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. Such uses
are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
districts involved. It is further the intent of this chapter that
nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended, or used as
grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
district.
165.11   NONCONFORMITIES MAY NOT BE ENLARGED.
A nonconforming use of land, or a nonconforming use of a structure and land
shall not be extended or enlarged after the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter by attachment on a building or premises of additional
signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by the addition of other
uses of a nature which would be prohibited generally in the district involved.
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption
or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter and upon which actual
building construction has been diligently carried on. Actual construction is
hereby defined to include the placing of construction materials in permanent
position and fastened in a permanent manner, except that where demolition or
removal of an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to
rebuilding, such demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual
construction, provided that work shall be diligently carried on until
completion of the building involved.
165.12   NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a single-family
dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of
record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of the ordinance codified
in this chapter. This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet
the requirements for area or width or both that are generally applicable in the
district, provided that yard dimensions and other requirements not involving
area or width of the lot, or both, shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which such lot is located. Variance of area, width, and yard
requirements shall be obtained only through action of the Board of Adjustment.
165.13   NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of the ordinance codified
in this chapter, lawful use of land exists that is made no longer permissible
under the terms of this chapter as enacted or amended, such use may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions.
1.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased or extended to
occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter.
2.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any other
portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter.
3.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period
of more than one year, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the
regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land is
located.
165.14   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment
of the ordinance codified in this chapter that could not be built under the
terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height,
yards, or other characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot,
such structure may be continued for as long as it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following provisions:
1.   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases its
nonconformity.
2.   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than
50 percent of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
165.15   NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.
If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and premises in combination,
exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of the ordinance codified
in this chapter that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of
this chapter, the use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following provisions:
1.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter in
the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing the use of the
structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located.
2.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building
which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of adoption
or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any
land outside such building.
3.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure, or structure and premises in combination, may be changed to another
nonconforming use provided that the Board of Adjustment, either by general rule
or by making findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed use is
equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing
nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the Board of Adjustment may
require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with the provisions of
this chapter.
4.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district in which such structure is located, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
5.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued for six consecutive months or for 18 months during
any three-year period, the structure thereafter shall not be used except in
conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
6.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
165.16   REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening of, or
restoring to a safe condition of, any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official.
165.17   USES UNDER SPECIAL EXCEPTION PROVISIONS.
Any uses for which a special exception is permitted as provided in this chapter
shall not be deemed a nonconforming use, but shall, without further action, be
deemed a conforming use in such district.
165.18   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
An Administrative Officer designated by the Council shall administer and
enforce this chapter and may be provided with the assistance of such other
persons as the Council may direct. If the Administrative Officer shall find
that any of the provisions of this chapter are being violated, said officer
shall notify in writing the person responsible for such violation, indicating
the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it.
The Administrative Officer shall order discontinuance of illegal buildings or
structures or of additions, alterations, or structural changes thereto,
discontinuance of any illegal work being done, or shall take any other action
authorized by this chapter to insure compliance with, or to prevent violation
of, its provisions.
165.19   APPEALS FROM DECISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
Appeals from any decision of the Administrative Officer may be made to the
Board of Adjustment as provided in
Chapter 27.
165.20   INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion and protection of
the public health, safety, and general welfare. Wherever the requirements of
this chapter are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully
adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed restrictions, or covenants, the
most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall govern.
165.21   VIOLATIONS.
Each day that any person violates or fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall constitute a separate offense of this Code of Ordinances.
165.22   SEPARATE OFFENSES MAY BE CHARGED.
The owners or tenants of any building, structure, land, or part thereof and any
architect, engineer, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains a violation may each be charged with
a separate offense.
165.23   OTHER REMEDIES.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Council or its agents from taking
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
165.24   CONSTRUCTION COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE.
A construction compliance certificate shall be obtained from the Administrative
Officer before any building or structure shall be erected, reconstructed, or
structurally altered to increase the exterior dimensions, height, or floor
area, or remodeled to increase the number of dwelling units, or accommodate a
change in use of the building or premises or part thereof. The construction
compliance certificate shall state that the proposed construction complies with
all provisions of this chapter, and no subsequent modifications shall be made
to plans or to actual construction that would be in violation of this chapter.
165.25   OCCUPANCY COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE.
No change in the use of occupancy of land and no change in use or occupancy in
an existing building, other than for single-family dwelling purposes, shall be
made, nor shall any new building be occupied for any purpose other than a
single-family dwelling until an occupancy compliance certificate has been
issued by the Administrative Officer. Every occupancy compliance certificate
shall state that the new occupancy complies with all provisions of this chapter
and no subsequent modifications shall be made to the occupancy, use, or method
of operation that would be in violation of this chapter.
165.26   APPLICATION FOR COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATES.
Applications for compliance certificates shall be made prior to beginning
construction or assuming occupancy on fully completed application forms
obtained from the Administrative Officer, accompanied by such plans and
information necessary to determine that the proposed construction or occupancy
complies with all applicable provisions of this chapter.
165.27   FEES.
The Administrative Officer is directed to issue a construction compliance
certificate or an occupancy compliance certificate as required by this chapter
for proposed construction, reconstruction, or alteration which complies with
all provisions contained herein and to charge fees therefor as established by
resolution of the Council. There shall be no fees charged to the United States
of America, the State of Iowa, or any political subdivision thereof. All fees
as are required shall be paid to the Administrative Officer, who shall keep a
complete and accurate record of fees received and shall forthwith deposit them
to the credit of the General Revenue Fund of the City. Any construction
compliance certificate under which no construction work has been commenced
within one year after the date of issue of said certificate or under which the
proposed construction, reconstruction, or alteration has not been completed
within that time period, shall expire by limitation; and no work or operation
shall take place under such certificate after such expiration. A construction
compliance certificate may be extended for a period not exceeding one year by
the Administrative Officer and may not be renewed more than one time. The
renewal fee shall be in the amount of the current fee.
165.28   CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
The regulations imposed and the districts created by this chapter may be
amended from time to time by the Council.
1.   Hearing Required; Notice. The Council may, on its own motion or as the
result of a petition by a private party, amend, supplement, change, and/or
repeal this zoning ordinance, including the boundaries of zoning districts. No
such action shall be effective until a public hearing on the amendment,
supplement, change, and/or repeal has been held by the Council, at which
hearing parties in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard.
Notice of time and place of public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the City not more than 20 days in advance and at least 7
days prior to the public hearing and in no case shall the public hearing be
held earlier than the next regularly scheduled Council meeting following the
published notice.
2.   Planning Commission Report Required; Hearing. Before the Council holds its
public hearing, the proposed amendment, supplement, change, modification, or
repeal shall be referred to the Commission for its recommendations and report.
No report or recommendation shall be made to the Council until the Commission
holds a public hearing, at which parties in interest and citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Not less than 7 or more than 20 days’ notice of time
and place of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City. This notice may be published concurrently with the
noticed required in Subsection 1 above. If the Commission makes no report or
recommendation within 30 days, it shall be considered to have made a report
approving the proposed amendment, supplement, modification, change or repeal.
3.   In case the Commission does not approve the change, or in the case of a
written protest filed with the Council against a change in district boundaries
signed by the owners of 20 percent or more either of the area of the lots
included in such proposed change or of those immediately adjacent thereto, such
amendment shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of
all the members of the Council.
(Section 165.28 – Ord. 2023-07 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
165.29   APPLICATION FOR CHANGE OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
Any person may submit to the Council an application requesting a change in the
zoning district boundaries as shown on the Official Zoning Map.
1.   Such application shall be filed with the Administrative Officer
accompanied by a fee as established by resolution of the Council, and shall
contain the following information:
   A.   The legal description and local address of the property.
   B.   The present zoning classification and the zoning classification
requested for the property.
   C.   The existing use and proposed use of the property.
   D.   The names and addresses of the adjoining property owners of the
property for which the change is requested so each shall be contacted by mail
for the purpose of a courtesy notice of the public hearing.
(Paragraph D – Ord. 2023-07 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
   E.   A statement of the reasons why the applicant feels the present zoning
classification is no longer valid.
   F.   A plat showing the locations, dimensions, and use of the applicant’s
property and all adjacent property, including streets, alleys, railroads, and
other physical features.
   G.   A plan showing:
      (1)   Erosion and sediment control;
      (2)   Protection of natural vegetation cover;
      (3)   Open space requirements;
      (4)   Perimeter fences; and
      (5)   Protecting the integrity of existing drainage areas or tiles.
All fees shall be deposited to the General Revenue Fund of the City. Failure to
approve the requested change shall not be deemed cause to refund the fee to the
applicant.
2.   Upon receipt of the application by the Administrative Officer, a copy
shall be forwarded immediately to the Commission for study and recommendation.
Prior to making a recommendation, the Commission shall determine the following:
   A.   Whether or not the current district classification of the property to
be rezoned is valid;
   B.   Whether there is a need for additional land zoned for the purpose
requested;
   C.   Whether the proposed change is consistent with the current land use
plan, considering such factors as:
      (1)   Whether the rezoning would result in a population density or
development which would in turn cause a demand for services and utilities in
excess of the capacity planned for the area, and
      (2)   Whether the rezoning would result in the generating of traffic in
excess of the capacity of existing or planned streets in the vicinity; and
   D.   Whether there is an intent on the part of the applicant to develop the
property to be rezoned diligently and within a reasonable time.
3.   The Commission shall report its determinations and recommendations to the
Council within 30 days from receipt of the application, except that when no
report is issued within that time, the application will be deemed approved by
the Commission. The Council shall then call a public hearing as provided in
Section
165.28.
CHAPTER 166
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
166.01 Jurisdiction                   166.11 Professional Assistance
166.02 Definitions                    166.12 Preliminary Plat Requirements
166.03 Fees                           166.13 Final Plat Requirements
166.04 Variances                      166.14 Design Standards For Streets
166.05 Enforcement                    166.15 Design Standards For Blocks
166.06 Amendments                     166.16 Design Standards For Lots
166.07 Validity                       166.17 Improvements Required
166.08 Preliminary Platting Procedure 166.18 Specifications
166.09 Final Platting Procedure       166.19 Inspection
166.10 Plats Outside Corporate Limits
 
166.01   JURISDICTION.
All plats, re-plats or subdivision of land into three or more parts for the
purpose of laying out a portion of the City, an addition thereto, or, pursuant
to Section 354.9 of the Code of Iowa, suburban lots within two miles of the
corporate limits of the City, for other than agricultural purposes, shall be
submitted to the Council and Planning and Zoning Commission, in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, and shall be subject to the requirements
established herein.
166.02   DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
The word “building” includes the word “structure.”
1.   “Alley” means a permanent public service way or right-of-way designed to
provide a secondary means of access to abutting property.
2.   “Building line” means a line established on a plat as a restrictive
covenant, beyond which no building may be placed. The building lines need not
correspond to the front, side, or rear yard requirement established in Chapter
165, and where they do not, the most restrictive requirement will control.
3.   “Collector street” means a street intended to carry vehicular traffic from
residential streets to thoroughfares or traffic generators.
4.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City.
5.   “Cul-de-sac” means a short minor street having one end open to motor
traffic, the other end being permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
6.   “Easement” means authorization by a property owner for the use by another,
and for a specified purpose, of any designated part of such property.
7.   “Final plat” means the map or drawing on which the subdivision plan is
presented in the form which, if approved by the Council and Commission, will be
filed and recorded with County Recorder.
8.   “Preliminary plat” means the study or drawings indicating the proposed
manner or layout of the subdivision which is submitted to the Council and
Commission for consideration.
9.   “Residential street or road” means a street used primarily for access to
abutting property.
10.   “Right-of-way” means the area measured between property lines dedicated
to and accepted for public use and providing access to abutting properties.
11.   “Separate tract” means a parcel of land or a group of contiguous parcels
of land under one ownership of the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter.
12.   “Street” or “road” means a right-of-way other than an alley dedicated or
otherwise legally established to be accepted for public use, usually affording
the principal means of access to abutting property. A street may be designated
as a street, highway, thoroughfares, parkway, avenue, road, lane, drive, place,
or other appropriate designation.
13.   “Subdivider” means any person who shall lay out, for the purpose of sale
or development, any subdivision or part thereof, as defined herein, either for
said person or others.
14.   “Subdivision” means the division of a separate tract of land into three
or more lots or parcels for the purpose of transfer or ownership or building
development, or if a new road is involved, any division of a parcel of land.
15.   “Thoroughfare” means a street intended for cross-county of through
traffic.
166.03   FEES.
Each preliminary plat submitted for approval shall be accompanied by a $75.00
filing fee which shall be credited to the General Fund of the City. Each final
plat submitted for approval shall be accompanied by a $50.00 filing fee which
shall be credited to the General Fund of the City.
166.04   VARIANCES.
Where the strict application of standards or requirements established by the
chapter would cause substantial hardship or impose unreasonable restrictions on
the development of a tract of land because of natural or physical conditions or
limitations, not created by the owner or developer, the Commission may
recommend and the Council may grant such variances from these standards or
requirements as may be necessary to permit the reasonable development of the
land while preserving the intent of this chapter.
166.05   ENFORCEMENT.
In addition to other remedies and penalties prescribed by law, the provisions
of this chapter shall not be violated subject to the following:
1.   No plat or subdivision in the City or within two miles thereof shall be
recorded or filed with the County Auditor or County Recorder, nor shall any
plat or subdivision have any validity until it complies with the provisions of
this chapter and is approved by the Council as prescribed herein.
2.   No more than two building permits shall be issued for each separate tract
existing at the effective date of this chapter unless the tract shall have been
platted in accordance with the provisions contained herein.
3.   No public improvements over which the Council has control shall be made
with City funds, nor shall any City funds be expended for street maintenance,
street improvements, or other services in any area that has been subdivided
after the date of adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter unless the
subdivision and streets have been approved in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and the street accepted by the Council as a public street.
4.   Any person who disposes of or offers for sale or lease any lots in the
City or addition thereto unless the plat thereof has been approved in
accordance with this chapter and recorded shall forfeit and pay $50.00 for each
lot or part of lot sold or disposed of, leased, or offered for sale.
166.06   AMENDMENTS.
This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Council. Such amendments
as may be proposed shall first be submitted to the Commission for study and
recommendation. The Commission shall report within 30 days, after which the
Council shall give notice of and hold a public hearing on the proposed
amendment. The amendment shall become effective from and after its adoption and
publication as required by law.
166.07   VALIDITY.
Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by the courts to be
invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
chapter as a whole or any part thereof, other than the part so declared to be
invalid or unconstitutional.
166.08   PRELIMINARY PLATTING PROCEDURE.
1.   The owner or developer of any tract of land to be subdivided shall prepare
a preliminary plat of the subdivision containing the information specified
herein and shall file three copies of the plat at City Hall.
2.   The City Administrator/Clerk shall immediately transmit two copies of the
preliminary plat to the Planning and Zoning Commission for study and
recommendation.
3.   The Commission shall examine the plat as to its compliance with this
chapter and the Comprehensive Plan of the City and shall have 30 days to submit
a recommendation to the Council; provided, the owner or developer may agree to
an extension of time not to exceed 60 days. A copy of the recommendation shall
be forwarded to the owner or developer.
4.   The Council, upon receipt of the Commission’s recommendation, or after 30
days, or an extension thereof, shall have passed, shall by resolution grant
approval or reject the preliminary plat. If the preliminary plat is rejected,
the Council will advise the owner or developer of any changes which are desired
or should have consideration before approval will be given. Approval of the
preliminary plat by the Council shall constitute approval to proceed with the
preparation of the final plat but shall not be deemed approval of subdivision.
5.   The Council may, upon request of the subdivider, decide to construct
certain improvements itself as part of its tentative approval, which
improvements shall fulfill the requirements in other sections of these
subdivision regulations, only as follows:
   A.   The City may construct water mains and fire hydrants or sewer mains,
which costs to the City shall be recovered by connection fees or any other
program that may be available to the City. Such rates must be established by
ordinance of the Council under Section 384.84(6a)(1) of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   The City may construct sanitary sewers or water mains under special
assessment which assessment, upon request of the owner, shall not become
payable until such time as the property is not used as agricultural property
under Section 384.62 of the Code of Iowa.
   C.   The City may allow the applicant to construct street bases without
concrete surfacing if it determines that the City will surface the streets
later under other City programs.
166.09   FINAL PLATTING PROCEDURE.
1.   A final plat shall be submitted within 12 months of the approval of the
preliminary plat, or such approval shall expire and the preliminary plat shall
be resubmitted for approval prior to preparation of a final plat.
2.   Procedures for final plats shall be the same as set out for preliminary
plats in the preceding section.
3.   Upon approval of the final plat, a certification signed by the Mayor and
attested by the City Administrator/Clerk shall be affixed to the original
tracing of the final plat and copies of the same filed with the City
Administrator/Clerk, County Auditor, and County Recorder, along with such other
certifications as may be required by law.
166.10   PLATS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
Procedure for approval of preliminary and final plats of land within two miles
of the corporate limits except where the City’s jurisdiction is less than two
miles shall be the same as set out in the preceding sections except that five
copies of the plat shall be filed with the City Administrator/Clerk, County
Engineer and one copy to the Regional Planning Commission and request their
recommendations to be submitted to the City Planning and Zoning Commission. The
City Planning and Zoning Commission shall have 45 days in which to take action
on the plat but shall not act prior to receiving the recommendations of the
Regional Planning Commission provided that such recommendation shall be
received within 30 days of referral.
166.11   PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE.
The City Council or the Planning and Zoning Commission may request such
professional assistance as it deems necessary to properly evaluate the plats as
submitted.
166.12   PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
1.   A location map showing:
   A.   The subdivision name.
   B.   An outline of the area to be subdivided.
   C.   The existing streets and public or community utilities, if any, on the
adjoining property.
   D.   North point and scale.
2.   A preliminary plat of the subdivision drawn to the scale of 50 feet to one
inch provided that if the resulting drawing would be over 36 inches in the
shortest dimension, a scale of 100 feet to one inch may be used, said
preliminary plat to show:
   A.   Legal description, acreage and name of proposed subdivision.
   B.   Name and address of the owner.
   C.   Name of person who prepared the plat, and the date thereof.
   D.   Location of existing lot lines, streets, public utilities, water mains,
sewers, drain pipes, culverts, water courses, bridges, railroads, and buildings
in the proposed subdivision.
   E.   Location and widths, other dimensions and names of the proposed
streets, utility easements and other open spaces or reserved areas.
   F.   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to known lines or benchmarks.
   G.   Names of adjacent property owners.
   H.   Layout of proposed blocks (if used) and lots including the dimensions
of each, and the lot and block number in numerical order.
   I.   A statement concerning the location and approximate size or capacity of
utilities proposed to be installed.
   J.   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet if the general
slope of the site is less than 10 percent and at vertical intervals of not more
than five feet if the general slope is 10 percent or greater.
   K.   Grades of proposed streets.
   L.   Proposed building lines.
   M.   A cross section of the proposed streets showing the roadway location,
the type and width of surfacing, type of drainage, and other improvements to be
installed.
   N.   The location of proposed wells or water mains and sewage disposal
system if a public or community system is used.
   O.   The drainage of the land including proposed storm sewers, ditches,
culverts, bridges, and other structures.
   P.   North point and graphic scale.
   Q.   Layout of lots showing approximate dimensions and number.
166.13   FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
The final plat shall meet the following specifications:
1.   It may include all or only part of the preliminary plat.
2.   The plat shall be drawn to the scale of 50 feet to one inch, provided that
if the resulting drawing would be over 36 inches in shortest dimensions, a
scale of 100 feet to one inch may be used.
3.   The final plat shall contain the following:
   A.   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and angles, which provide a
survey of the tract, closing with an error of not more than one foot in three
3,000 feet.
   B.   Accurate references to known or permanent monuments, giving the bearing
and distance from some corner or a congressional division of the county of
which the subdivision is a part.
   C.   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets intersecting
the boundaries of the tract.
   D.   Accurate metes and bounds description of the boundary.
   E.   Street names.
   F.   Complete curve notes for all curves included in the plat.
   G.   Street right-of-way lines with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths.
   H.   Lot numbers and dimensions.
   I.   Block numbers, if used.
   J.   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved for
public, semi-public, or community use.
   K.   Building lines and dimensions.
   L.   Location, type, material, and size of all monuments and markers.
   M.   Name of the subdivision.
   N.   Name and address of owner and subdivider.
   O.   North point, scale, and date.
   P.   Certification by a registered land surveyor of the State of Iowa.
   Q.   Certification of dedication of streets and other public property.
4.   The final plat shall be accompanied by the following instruments:
   A.   A statement by the proprietors and their spouses, if any, that the plat
is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire, signed
and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgments of
deeds. The statement by the proprietors may also include a dedication to the
public of all lands within the plat that are designated for streets, alleys,
parks, open areas, school property, or other public use, if the dedication is
approved by the Council.
   B.   A statement from the mortgage holders or lienholders, if any, that the
plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire,
signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgment
of deeds. An affidavit and bond as provided for in Section 354.12 of the Code
of Iowa may be recorded in lieu of the consent of the mortgage or lienholder.
When a mortgage or lienholder consents to the subdivision, a release of
mortgage or lien shall be recorded for any areas conveyed to the City or
dedicated to the public.
   C.   An opinion by an attorney-at-law who has examined the abstract of title
of the land being platted. The opinion shall state the names of the proprietors
and holders of mortgages, liens or other encumbrances on the land being platted
and shall note the encumbrances, along with any bonds securing the
encumbrances. Utility easements shall not be construed to be encumbrances for
the purpose of this section.
   D.   A certificate of the County Treasurer that the land is free from
certified taxes and certified special assessments or that the land is free from
certified taxes and that the certified special assessments are secured by bond
in compliance with Section 354.12 of the Code of Iowa.
   E.   A resolution and certificate for approval by the Council and for
signatures of the Mayor and City Administrator/Clerk.
   F.   A copy of restrictive covenants to be attached to the lots of the
subdivision.
   G.   One of the following:
      (1)   A certificate bearing the approval of the Council stating that all
improvements and installations in the subdivision required by this chapter have
been made or installed in accordance with the City specifications; or
      (2)   A surety bond with the City which will insure the City that the
improvements will be completed by the subdivider or property owner within two
years after the official acceptance of the plat. The form and type of bond
shall be approved by the City Attorney, and the amount of the bond shall not be
less than the amount of the estimated cost of the improvements plus 10 percent
and the amount of the estimate must be approved by the Council. If the
improvements are not completed within the specified time, the Council may use
the bond or any necessary portion thereof to complete the same; or
      (3)   A petition by the developer to the Council to provide the necessary
improvements and to assess the costs thereof against the subdivided property in
accordance with the requirements regarding special assessments, provided,
however, that the subdivider or property owners shall furnish the necessary
proceedings against the platted property even though the total amount exceeds
the statutory limitations.
If Option (2) or Option (3) above is chosen, the final plat shall state that
the developer, the grantees, assignees, and successors in interest agree that
public services including but not limited to street maintenance, snow and ice
removal, and rubbish, refuse, and garbage collection will not be extended to
this subdivision until the pavement is completed and accepted by the City.
166.14   DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STREETS.
1.   General Considerations:
   A.   The street and alley layout shall provide access to all lots and
parcels of land within the subdivision.
   B.   Street jogs of less than 150 feet in length shall be avoided.
   C.   Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 500 feet in length.
   D.   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as to
produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
   E.   New subdivisions shall make provisions for continuation and extension
of thoroughfares and collector streets and roads.
   F.   No dead-end streets or alleys will be permitted except at subdivision
boundaries.
   G.   Thoroughfare and collector streets on a subdivision shall extend
through to the boundaries thereof.
   H.   Alleys shall not be permitted in residential areas but shall be
provided in commercial and industrial areas.
   I.   Intersection of road centerlines shall be at 80 degrees and 100
degrees.
   J.   Intersection of more than two streets at a point shall not be
permitted.
   K.   Where parkways of special types of streets are proposed, the Commission
may apply special standards for the design of such parkways and streets.
   L.   Proposed streets that are extensions of or in alignment with existing
shall bear the same name of the existing street.
2.   Minimum rights-of-way shall be provided as follows:
   A.   Thoroughfares:   100 feet.
   B.   Collector Streets:   70 feet.
   C.   Residential Streets:   60 feet.
   D.   Cul-de-sacs:   100 feet in diameter.
   E.   Alleys:   20 feet.
3.   Minimum width of surfacing to be provided shall be as follows:
   A.   Thoroughfare Streets:   53 feet.
   B.   Collector Streets:   41 feet.
   C.   Residential Streets:   31 feet.
   D.   Cul-de-sacs:   85 feet in diameter.
   E.   Alleys:   20 feet.
   F.   Sidewalks:   4 feet.
4.   Grades. No street shall be less than one-half of one percent and shall not
exceed the following limits:
   A.   Thoroughfare Streets:   Six percent
   B.   Collector Streets:   Eight percent
   C.   Residential Streets:   Ten percent
166.15   DESIGN STANDARDS FOR BLOCKS.
1.   The length of blocks shall be not less than 500 feet and not more than
1,250 feet.
2.   Blocks shall be of sufficient width to permit two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth and in no case shall the width be less than 220 feet, except
where a single tier of double frontage lots parallels a limited access highway,
a thoroughfare, drainage course, railroad, or other barrier, the width shall be
not less than 150 feet.
3.   Crosswalks may be required in blocks over 700 feet long or in areas where
curved streets require excessive out-of-distance travel. If required, they
shall be constructed by the developer.
166.16   DESIGN STANDARDS FOR LOTS.
1.   All lots shall abut on a street or place. Corner lots which abut on a
thoroughfare or collector street shall have minimum radius of 15 feet at the
intersection.
2.   Side lines of lots shall approximate right angles to straight street lines
and radial angles to curved street lines except where a variation will provide
better lot layout.
3.   Lots with double frontage shall be avoided, except in specific locations
where good planning indicates their use. In that event, a planting screen shall
be provided along the rear of the lot.
4.   Corner lots shall not be less than 75 feet in width, and interior lots
shall not be less than 66 feet in width at the building lines.
166.17   IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
1.   Sanitary Sewers. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with
sanitary facilities in accordance with one of the following:
   A.   Public Collection System. Where reasonably available the subdivider
shall provide the subdivision with a complete sanitary sewer system which shall
connect with the sanitary sewer system of the City. In such case the sewer
system shall be approved by the City Council and shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the municipal specifications.
   B.   Local or Community Treatment System. Where it is not practical to
connect the subdivision sanitary sewer system to a municipal sewer, the
subdivider shall install a local or community treatment system in accordance
with the requirements of the State Board of Health and the County Board of
Health.
   C.   Private Disposal System. If it is demonstrated that the above are not
practical, the Council may, upon request, permit the subdivider to install on
each lot, septic tank and absorption field or other system approved by the
County Board of Health, provided such lots meet the area requirements
established for such systems under
Chapter 165. In no case, however, shall private disposal systems be permitted
where rock, impervious clay, or ground water is closer than 30 inches to the
surface of the ground.
2.   Water. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with an approved water
supply and distribution system in accordance with one of the following:
   A.   Public Water System. Where reasonably available, the subdivider shall
provide the subdivision with a complete water main supply system including
hydrants, valves, and other appurtenances which shall extend into and through
the subdivision to the boundary lines and which shall provide for a water
connection to each lot, and shall be connected to a public or municipal water
system.
   B.   Local or Community Water System. Where a public water system is not
available, the subdivider shall install a local or community water supply and
distribution system, including all necessary mains, valves, hydrants and other
appurtenances, in accordance with standards and requirements of the State Board
of Health and the County Board of Health.
   C.   Individual Water System. If it is demonstrated that the above are not
practical, the Council may, upon request, permit the subdivider to install
individual wells on each lot, or other water system approved by the County
Board of Health, provided such lots meet the area requirements established for
such systems under
Chapter 165.
3.   Storm Drains. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with adequate
drain ditches, culverts, complete bridges, storm sewers, intakes, and manholes
to provide for the collection and removal of all surface waters, and these
improvements shall extend to the boundaries of the subdivision so as to provide
for extension by adjoining properties.
4.   Markers. An iron rod not less than one-half inch in diameter and 24 inches
in length shall be placed as follows:
   A.   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary of the
subdivision.
   B.   At block and lot corners and changes in direction of block and lot
boundaries.
5.   Grading. All streets and alleys within the platted area which are being
dedicated for public use shall be brought to the grade approved by the City
Council.
6.   Curb and Gutter. Curb and gutter shall be installed on all streets in the
plat being dedicated for public use and shall be constructed of Portland cement
concrete in accordance with designs and specifications and at grades approved
by the City Council.
166.18   SPECIFICATIONS.
The type of construction, the materials, the methods and standards of
subdivision improvements shall be equal to the current specifications of the
City for like work. Plans and specifications shall be submitted to the Council
for approval prior to construction and construction shall not be started until
the plans and specifications have been approved.
166.19   INSPECTION.
The Council shall cause the installation of all improvements to be inspected to
insure compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The cost of said
inspection shall be borne by the subdivider and shall be the actual cost of the
inspection to the City.
CHAPTER 167
SIGN REGULATIONS
167.01 Definitions                       167.12 Removal Upon Abandonment of Use
167.02 Unsafe and Unlawful Signs         167.13 Ground Sign Requirements
167.03 Painting Required Every Two Years 167.14 Wall Sign Requirements
167.04 Wind Pressure and Dead Load       167.15 Murals or Signs Painted on
Requirements                             Building Exteriors
167.05 Removal of Certain Signs          167.16 Projecting Sign Requirements
167.06 Exemptions                        167.17 Temporary and Portable Sign
                                         Requirements
167.07 Obstructions To Doors, Windows or 167.18 Permits
Fire Escapes
167.08 Signs Not To Constitute Traffic   167.19 Enforcement
Hazard
167.09 Face of Sign                      167.20 Appeal Procedure
167.10 Goose Neck Reflectors             167.21 Penalties
167.11 Spotlights and Floodlights        167.22 Permitted Signs by Zoning
Prohibited                               District
 
167.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Celebratory rental sign” means a type of temporary sign indicating
celebratory occasions such as birthdays, anniversaries, weddings, births, etc.,
which do not exceed 32 square feet in area, using indirect lighting, and placed
upon private property for not longer than two days.
2.   “City employee” means a City employee, as designated by the Council.
3.   “Erect” means to build, construct, attach, hang, suspend, or affix, and
also includes the painting of wall signs.
4.   “Facing” or “surface” means the surface of the sign upon, against, or
through which the message is displayed or illustrated on the sign.
5.   “Ground sign” means any sign supported by uprights or braces placed upon
the ground and not attached to any building.
6.   “Illuminated sign” means any sign which has characters, letters, figures,
designs, or outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as a part
of the sign proper.
7.   “Incombustible material” means any material which will not ignite below a
temperature of 1200? and will not continue to burn or glow at that temperature.
8.   “Mural” means an image, picture, or representation painted, affixed, or
adhered to the exterior surface of a building that is intended to serve as an
artistic or historic function, and is not related by language, logo, or graphic
to the advertisement of any product, service, or identification of any
business. It is designed and intended to serve as public art to enhance public
spaces, but is not necessarily publicly owned.
9.   “Noncommercial” means any activity or communication that does not have the
intent of promoting or encouraging the viewer to engage in commerce, involve
monetary compensation, or the purchase of a specific product or service.
10.   “Political sign” means a temporary sign announcing candidates seeking
public office, a political issue, or containing other election information.
11.   “Projecting sign” as regulated by this chapter means any sign which is
attached to a building or other structure and extends beyond the line of said
building or structure or beyond the surface of that portion of the building or
structure to which it is attached.
12.   “Real estate sign” means a temporary sign which advertises the sale,
rental, or lease of property.
13.   “Sign” means and includes every sign, ground sign, wall sign, illuminated
sign, projecting sign, and temporary sign, and includes any announcement,
declaration, demonstration, display, illustration, or insignia used to
advertise or promote the interests of any person when the same is placed out of
doors in view of the general public.   
(Subsection 13 – Ord. 2024-03 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
14.   “Street line” means the place where the public sidewalk begins and the
private property line ends.
15.   “Structural trim” means the molding, battens, capping, mailing strips,
latticing, and platforms which are attached to the sign structure.
16.   “Temporary signs” or “portable signs” means any sign, banner, pennant, or
valance to be displayed for a limited time only, not to exceed 30 days, or any
sign set upon the ground unsecured. A portable sign shall be defined as any
sign set upon or inflated or affixed to any device or ground with wheels,
skids, or framing so as to afford portability by persons or auxiliary devices
and includes “sandwich” signs. Other sub-types of temporary signs are defined
in Section
167.17 of this chapter.
17.   “Wall sign” means all flat signs of solid construction which are placed
against a building or other structure and attached to the exterior front, rear,
or side wall of any building or other structure.
167.02   UNSAFE AND UNLAWFUL SIGNS.
If a City employee finds that any sign or other advertising structure regulated
hereunder is unsafe or insecure or is a menace to the public, or has been
constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation of the provisions of
this chapter, such employee shall give written notice thereof to the permit
holder. Such notice shall include a statement explaining the alleged violations
and deficiencies, an order to repair or remove said sign, and an explanation of
the consequences of failure to comply with said order. If the permit holder
fails to remove or alter said sign so as to comply with the order within 10
days after such notice, said sign or other advertising structure may be removed
or altered to comply, by a City employee at the expense of the permit holder or
owner of the property on which it is located. The permit holder may appeal the
order of a City employee to the Council, and if such an appeal is on file, the
10-day compliance period shall be extended until 10 days following the
Council’s decision on the matter. If, however, a City employee finds that any
sign, structure, installation, or improvement regulated by this chapter poses a
serious and immediate threat to the health or safety of any person, such
employee may order the removal of such sign summarily and without notice to the
permit holder. Such an order may be appealed to the Council, and if the Council
reverses, it shall order restitution at the City’s expense.
167.03   PAINTING REQUIRED EVERY TWO YEARS.
At least once every two years the owner of any sign as defined and regulated by
this chapter shall be required to have properly painted all parts and supports
of the said sign, unless the same are galvanized or otherwise treated to
prevent rust.
167.04   WIND PRESSURE AND DEAD LOAD REQUIREMENTS.
All signs and other advertising structures shall be designed and constructed to
withstand a wind pressure of not less than 40 pounds per square foot area, and
shall be constructed to receive dead loads as required in this Code of
Ordinances.
167.05   REMOVAL OF CERTAIN SIGNS.
Any sign now or hereafter existing which no longer advertises a bona fide
business conducted, or a product sold, shall be taken down and removed by the
owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use of the building or structure
upon which such sign may be found, within 10 days after written notification
from a City employee, and upon failure to comply with such notice within the
time specified in such order, a City employee is hereby authorized to cause
removal of such signs, and any expense incident thereto shall be paid by the
owner of the building or structure to which such sign is attached.
167.06   EXEMPTIONS.
The provisions and regulations of this chapter do not apply to the following
signs; provided, however, said signs shall be subject to the provisions of
Section
167.02.
1.   Professional. Professional name plates not exceeding one square foot in
area.
2.   Painted on Exterior of Building. Signs painted on the exterior surface of
a building or structure; provided, however, if said signs have raised borders,
letters, characters, decorations, or lighting appliances, they shall be subject
to the provisions of this chapter.
3.   Bulletin Boards. Bulletin boards not over eight square feet in area for
public, charitable, or religious institutions when the same are located on the
premises of said institutions.
4.   Construction Signs. Signs denoting the architect, engineer or contractor
when placed upon work under construction, and not exceeding 16 feet in area.
5.   Occupational Signs. Occupational signs denoting only the name and
profession of an occupant in a commercial building, public institutional
building, or house, and not exceeding two square feet in area.
6.   Memorial Signs. Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings, and date of
erection when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or
other incombustible materials.
7.   Traffic Signs. Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, railroad
crossing signs, danger, and such temporary, emergency or non-advertising signs
as may be approved by the Council.
167.07   OBSTRUCTIONS TO DOORS, WINDOWS, OR FIRE ESCAPES.
No sign shall be erected, located, or maintained so as to prevent free ingress
to or egress from any door, window, or fire escape. No sign of any kind shall
be attached to a standpipe or fire escape.
167.08   SIGNS NOT TO CONSTITUTE TRAFFIC HAZARD.
No sign or other advertising structure as regulated by this chapter shall be
erected at the intersection of any streets in such a manner as to obstruct free
and clear vision; or at any location where, by reason of the position, shape,
or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal, or device; or which makes use of the words
STOP, LOOK, DRIVE-IN, DANGER, or any other word, phrase, symbol, or character
in such manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic. No sign or
other advertising structure as regulated by this chapter shall have posts,
guides, or supports located within any street or alley.
167.09   FACE OF SIGN.
All signs or other advertising structures which are constructed on street
lines, or within five feet thereof, shall have a smooth surface and no nails,
tacks, or wires shall be permitted to protrude therefrom, except electrical
reflectors and devices which may extend over the top and in front of the
advertising structures.
167.10   GOOSE NECK REFLECTORS.
Goose neck reflectors and lights shall be permitted on ground signs and wall
signs; provided, however, the reflectors shall be provided with proper glass
lenses concentrating the illumination upon the area of the sign as to prevent
glare upon the street or adjacent property.
167.11   SPOTLIGHTS AND FLOODLIGHTS PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to maintain any sign which extends over public
property which is wholly or partially illuminated by floodlights or spotlights.
167.12   REMOVAL UPON ABANDONMENT OF USE.
It is the responsibility of the owner of the sign to remove such sign when its
advertising or other commercial use is abandoned.
167.13   GROUND SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
The requirements for ground signs are as follows:
1.   Materials Required. All ground signs for which a permit is required under
this chapter shall have a surface or facing of incombustible material;
provided, however, combustible structural trim may be used thereon.
2.   Letters To Be Secured. All letters, figures, characters, or
representations in cut-out or irregular form, maintained in conjunction with,
attached to, or superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and securely built
or attached to the sign structure.
3.   Height Limitation. It is unlawful to erect any ground sign whose total
height is greater than 25 feet above the level of the street upon which the
sign faces, or above the adjoining ground level, if such ground level is above
street level.
4.   Space Between Sign and Ground and Other Signs and Structures. Ground signs
shall have an open space not less than two feet between the base line of said
sign and the ground level. This open space may be filled in with a platform or
decorative lattice work which does not close off more than one-half of the
square footage of such open space. No ground sign shall be nearer than two feet
to any other sign, building, or structure.
5.   Setback Line. No ground sign shall be nearer the street than the building
line established by law.
6.   Bracing, Anchorage and Supports. All ground signs shall be securely built,
constructed, and erected upon posts and standards sunk at least three and one-
half feet below the natural surface of the ground, and shall be supported and
braced by timbers or metal rods in the rear thereof, extending from the top
thereof to a point on the ground at least a distance equal to one-half the
height of such sign, measured along the ground, from the posts or standards
upon which the same is erected.
7.   Supports To Be Creosoted. All posts, anchors, and bracing of wood shall be
treated to protect them from moisture by creosoting or other approved methods
when they rest upon or enter into the ground.
8.   Premises To Be Kept Free of Weeds. All ground signs and the premises
surrounding the same shall be maintained by the owner thereof in a clean,
sanitary, and unoffensive condition, and free and clear of all obnoxious
substances, rubbish, and weeds.
167.14   WALL SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
The requirements for wall signs are as follows:
1.   Materials Required. All wall signs for which a permit is required under
this chapter shall have a surface or facing of incombustible material;
provided, however, combustible structural trim may be used thereon.
2.   Limitation on Placement and Area. No wall sign shall cover wholly or
partially any wall opening, or project beyond the ends or top of the wall to
which it is attached and any one wall sign shall not exceed an area of 500
square feet.
3.   Projection Above Sidewalk and Setback Line. No wall sign shall be
permitted to extend more than six inches beyond the building line, and shall
not be attached to a wall at a height less than 10 feet above the sidewalk or
ground.
4.   Supports and Attachment. All wall signs shall be safely and securely
attached to the building wall by means of metal anchors, bolts, or expansion
screws of not less than three-eighths inch in diameter embedded in said wall at
least five inches; provided, however, such signs may rest in, or be bolted to
strong, heavy, metal brackets or saddles set not over six feet apart, each of
which shall be securely fixed to the wall as herein provided. In no case shall
any wall sign be secured with wire, strips of wood, or nails.
5.   Wind Pressure and Dead Load Requirements. All wall signs shall conform to
the requirements of Section
167.04 of this chapter.
167.15   MURALS OR SIGNS PAINTED ON BUILDING EXTERIORS.
Any mural or painted signs must comply with all permitting requirements
provided for in this chapter. Murals or signs painted on the exterior of a
building may be placed only on side or rear-facing portions of the building. No
mural or painted sign may be painted or installed on the front face of the
building, defined as that portion of the building facing the street on which
the building is addressed or on which the building’s main entrance is located.
167.16   PROJECTING SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
The requirements for projecting signs are as follows:
1.   Approval Required. Every projecting sign, including the frames, braces,
and supports thereof, shall be designed by a structural engineer or
manufacturer, and shall be approved by a City employee as in compliance with
this Code of Ordinances and shall be constructed of incombustible materials,
shall be illuminated, and shall be two-faced.
2.   Illumination. The reflectors shall be provided with the proper glass
lenses concentrating the illumination upon the area of the sign and preventing
glare upon the street or adjacent property; and no floodlight or spotlight or
reflectors of the goose-neck type shall be permitted on projecting signs.
3.   Limitation of Glass. The lettering or advertising designs to be
illuminated may be composed of glass or other transparent or semi-transparent
incombustible material. Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be safety
glass or plate glass at least one-quarter inch thick and in case of single
piece or pane of glass has an area exceeding three square feet, it shall be
wired glass. One section, not exceeding three square feet in area, constructed
of wire glass or safety glass shall be permitted on each side of a sign.
4.   Movable Parts To Be Secured. Any moveable part of a projecting sign such
as the cover of a service opening shall be securely fastened by chains or
hinges.
5.   Area Limitations. Projecting signs shall be limited in area as follows:
   A.   Horizontal projecting signs (any sign which is greater in width than in
height) shall be limited to 50 square feet on each side.
   B.   Vertical projecting signs (any sign which is greater in height than in
width) shall be limited to 100 square feet on each side.
6.   Thickness Limitation. The distance measured between the principal faces of
any projecting sign shall not exceed 18 inches.
7.   Projection Over Public Property. Every projecting sign shall be placed at
least 12 feet above the public sidewalk over which it is erected, and of a
distance not greater than two feet from the face of the wall to which it is
attached, measuring from the point of the sign nearest thereto, or less than
one foot. Every projecting sign erected over public driveways, alleys, and
thoroughfares shall be placed not less than 15 feet above the level of same.
8.   Obstructions and Traffic Hazards. Every projecting sign shall be erected
in full compliance with Sections
167.07 and
167.08 of this chapter.
9.   Bracing, Anchorage, and Supports. Projecting signs exceeding 10 square
feet in area or 50 pounds in weight shall not be attached to or supported by
frame buildings or the wooden framework of a building. Said signs shall be
attached to masonry walls with galvanized expansion bolts at least three-
eighths inch in diameter, shall be fixed in the walls by means of bolts
extending through the wall, and shall contain proper size metal washer or plate
on the inside of the wall.
10.   Anchorage With Wire Prohibited. No projecting sign shall be secured with
wire, strips of wood, or nails, nor shall any projecting sign be hung or
secured to any sign.
11.   V-Shaped Signs Prohibited. V-shaped signs, consisting of two single-faced
signs erected without a roof or ceiling are not permitted.
167.17   TEMPORARY AND PORTABLE SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
The requirements for temporary signs, portable signs, or other subtypes of
temporary sign as defined in this chapter, are as follows:
1.   Political Signs.
   A.   Political signs shall be permitted in all zones but not within any
public street right-of-way or on any public land.
   B.   Such signs shall not exceed eight square feet in area and shall not
exceed 42 inches in height.
   C.   Political signs established in violation of this section may be
immediately removed by the City.
   D.   Temporary political signs shall be displayed for no more than 75 total
days (which need not be consecutive) in any one calendar year, and shall be
removed or caused to be removed by the persons or organizations responsible for
installation or distribution of the signs or by the owner or occupant of the
property where they are located.
2.   Real Estate Signs.
   A.   Real estate signs shall be permitted in all zones, provided that all
such signs shall be located on the property to which they apply, except as
provided in Paragraphs D and E of this subsection.
   B.   Real estate signs shall conform to the following maximum size
requirements: Six square feet in area for the first 10,000 square feet in lot
area plus four square feet for each additional 10,000 square feet of lot area,
not to exceed a total sign size of 32 square feet.
   C.   Real estate signs shall be removed upon closing of the sale.
   D.   In addition to lot-specific real estate signs, signs advertising the
sale of lots within a subdivision shall be permitted. No more than one sign per
entrance into the subdivision shall be allowed, and each sign shall be no
greater than 32 square feet in area, no greater than eight feet in height, and
in place no longer than a period of three years.
   E.   Open house real estate signs may be located within the street right-of-
way between the curb and sidewalk but not for more than 48 hours before or more
than four hours after the open house is held. Open house real estate signs
shall be placed so that no part of the sign is closer to the roadway than three
feet from the back of the curb and shall not be placed within a gravel
shoulder. No signage of any kind is permitted within the landscaped areas at
street intersections, and no signage shall be placed so that it obscures said
landscaped areas. Any signs including real estate signs placed in the street
right-of-way are posted entirely and solely at the risk of the sign owner, and
may be removed by City staff. If such removal occurs, the City shall provide
written notice of the reason for removal to the sign owner via phone, email, or
regular mail and informing the sign owner that the sign may be claimed from the
City within five business days of the notice.
3.   Special Sale Signs. Special sale signs, including banner signs and
vertical signs as specified by the City, may be displayed for no more than
seven continuous days up to five times per calendar year. Horizontal banners,
yard signs, trailer signs, and all other similar signage are not allowed to
substitute under any condition for the sign designs permitted by the City. With
respect to temporary signs that qualify as special sale signs, the following
requirements shall apply:
   A.   Banner Signs.
      (1)   Sale and grand opening signs as defined herein are permitted in all
zones except residential. Such signs shall be removed immediately upon
termination of the special event or at the end of seven days, whichever comes
first.
      (2)   All such signs must be attached to the façade, wall, or window of
the building occupying or conducting the sale or event which they advertise, or
erected on temporary posts or supports within one foot of the façade, wall, or
window.
      (3)   No business shall have more than two such signs for each façade or
wall of the building to which they are attached.
      (4)   The total sign size shall not exceed 50 percent of the size of the
permitted wall sign or 25 square feet in area, whichever is greater.
   B.   Vertical Signs.
      (1)   Special event vertical as defined herein are permitted in all zones
except residential. Such signs shall be removed immediately upon termination of
the special event or at the end of seven days, whichever comes first. Only
sail-shaped vertical flag signs consistent with City specifications are allowed
under these rules.
      (2)   The signs may be inserted into the ground, freestanding on a
weighted base, or attached to a building, but in all cases shall be kept
vertical.
      (3)   The signs shall be located only on the private property hosting the
event, and not within any part of the City right-of-way.
      (4)   The number of vertical signs allowed per property shall be as
follows:
For lots with a single business: Two signs per street frontage are permitted;
however, one additional sign is permitted for each additional 50 feet of
frontage over 100 feet.
For multi-tenant lots: Two signs per street frontage are permitted; however,
one additional sign is permitted for each additional 50 feet of frontage over
100 feet. Tenants of multi-tenant lots shall ensure that collectively the
display of vertical signs does not exceed the maximum number requirement, and
any fines or penalties assessed for violation of these requirements may be
assessed to the owners of all such signs placed on the multi-tenant lot.
4.   Garage Sale Signs.
   A.   Garage sale signs are permitted in all zones but only on the property
to which they apply.
   B.   Garage sale signs shall not be displayed for more than 48 hours before
or more than four hours after the end of the sale.
   C.   Such signs shall not be larger than four square feet and no more than
two signs may be posted for any garage sale.
   D.   Such signs shall not be located within the street right-of-way between
the curb and sidewalk. They shall not be located on gravel shoulders, within
landscaped areas, or obstructing landscaped areas at street intersections, nor
shall they be attached to any traffic control posts or other public structures.
5.   Community Event Signs. Promotional signs advertising a special community
event such as a fair, farmer’s market, or parade may be permitted to be located
over the public right-of-way or on public property. The size, location, and
method of erection of such signs shall be subject to approval by the City
Administrator/Clerk.
6.   Builder or Contractor Signs. Builders, contractors, and subcontractors may
each display a business sign no larger than four square feet in size on a lot
where they are actively working, but not within the public right-of-way.
   A.   For new home construction, the posting of such signs is limited to that
time between the start of construction and the sale of the home, but not more
than six months.
   B.   For other construction projects requiring a building permit, the
posting of such signs is limited to that time between the start of construction
and the closing of the permit, but not more than six months.
   C.   For other construction projects not requiring a building permit, the
posting of such signs is limited to that time between the start of construction
and the end of construction, but not more than six months.
7.   General Requirements and Regulations. For any temporary sign, portable
sign, or any subtype of temporary sign, the following general requirements
shall apply, unless such requirement is contradictory to any requirement set
forth in this chapter pertaining specifically to the type of sign in question,
in which case the provision in this subsection shall give way to the specific
requirement stated elsewhere in this chapter:
   A.   A temporary banner shall not exceed 100 square feet in area. All other
temporary signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area
   B.   Except for political signs, temporary signs shall not be installed,
erected, or otherwise placed in any location approved by the City until, at
most, two weeks before the event they are meant to promote.
   C.   Temporary signs cannot be converted to a permanent sign.
   D.   Permit Required. Temporary signs shall be allowed by special permit,
fees for which will be set as recommended by the City Administrator/Clerk and
enacted by resolution of the Council, except for celebratory rental signs as
defined in this chapter. Temporary signs and signs less than six square feet in
size are exempt from the permit requirement.
   E.   To the extent any signage requirement or restriction is not
specifically superseded by any provision of this section, temporary signs shall
be subject to all construction, inspection, maintenance, removal, and penalty
provisions set forth in this chapter.
   F.   Temporary signs are prohibited in residential and floating zones,
except for special promotions or activities of public, educational, nonprofit,
charitable, fraternal, religious, or service clubs and organizations, fees for
which may be waived.
   G.   Temporary signs shall not be permitted at one business or industrial
location for a period longer than 30 days. A permit, once expired for a
specific location, whether issued to the reapplicant or to another applicant,
shall not be issued sooner than 30 days after the expiration of the previous
permit.
167.18   PERMITS.
1.   Permit Required. It is unlawful for any person to erect, repair, alter,
relocate, or maintain within the City any sign or other advertising structure
as defined in this chapter, without first obtaining a sign erection permit from
the City Administrator/Clerk and making payment of a fee if required.
2.   Exemptions. All temporary signs defined in Section
167.17 of this chapter are exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter.
3.   Application For Sign Erection Permit. Application for sign erection
permits shall be made upon blanks provided by the City Administrator/Clerk and
shall contain or have attached thereto the following information:
   A.   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.
   B.   Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which the sign
or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected.
   C.   Position of the sign or other advertising structure in relation to
nearby buildings or structures.
   D.   One blueprint or drawing of the plans and specifications and method of
construction and attachment to the building or in the ground.
   E.   Name of person, firm, corporation, or association erecting the
structure.
   F.   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure, or land on
which the structure is to be erected.
   G.   Proposed design of any mural or sign painted on the exterior of a
building pursuant to Section
167.14 of this chapter.
   H.   For temporary or portable signs, the name and date of the event or
thing being advertised, and the proposed dates for erection and removal of
signs.
   I.   Such other information as the City Administrator/Clerk shall require to
show full compliance with this chapter and all other ordinances of the City.
4.   Illuminated Signs. The application for a permit for erection of a sign or
other advertising structure in which electrical wiring and connections are to
be used shall be submitted to the City Administrator/Clerk. The City
Administrator/Clerk shall examine the plans and specifications respecting all
wiring and connections to determine if the same complies with this Code of
Ordinances, and shall approve said permit if the said plans and specifications
comply with said Code or disapprove the application if noncompliance with said
Code is found. This said action of the City Administrator/Clerk shall be taken
prior to submission of the application to the City Administrator/Clerk for
final approval or disapproval of the sign erection permit.
5.   Permit Issued. It is the duty of the City Administrator/Clerk upon the
filing of an application for a sign erection permit to examine such plans and
specifications and other data and the premises upon which it is proposed to
erect the sign or other advertising structure, and if it appears the proposed
structure is in compliance with all the requirements of this chapter and all
other ordinances of the City, the City Administrator/Clerk shall then issue the
sign erection permit. If the work authorized under a sign erection permit has
not been completed within six months after date of issuance, the said permit
shall become null and void.
167.19   ENFORCEMENT.
1.   Abandoned Signs. Any sign or part of a sign remaining in place for a
period of 90 days or more after it is no longer an on-premises sign shall be
considered abandoned. Signage attached to any building or structure deemed
abandoned as defined in this Code of Ordinances shall also be deemed abandoned.
An abandoned sign shall be taken down and removed by the owner, agent, or
person having the beneficial use of the building or land upon which such sign
may be found within 30 days after written notification from the City
Administrator/Clerk. Upon failure to comply within the time specified in such
order, the City Administrator/Clerk is hereby authorized to cause removal of
such sign, and any expense thereto shall be paid by the owner of the building
or structure upon which the sign is located or attached or assessed against the
property in the same manner as property tax to the extent permitted by the Code
of Iowa.
2.   Unsafe Signs. If the City Administrator/Clerk finds that any sign
regulated herein is unsafe, unsecured, or deemed a potential hazard to the
public, the City Administrator/Clerk shall promptly give written notice by mail
or personal service to the entity to which the sign applies or to the owner of
premises or building upon which the sign is located. If measures are not taken
to remove or alter the sign so as to comply with the standards herein set forth
within 24 hours after such notice, the City Administrator/Clerk, at the expense
of the permittee or owner of the property upon which it is located, may
initiate removal or alteration of the sign. However, if the owner of the sign
has promptly ordered the necessary parts to repair the sign and has not
received them, or has promptly ordered the repair work done by an authorized
erector and the erector has failed to respond within the 24-hour period, then a
further extension of time may be granted by the City Administrator/Clerk upon a
verified statement that such delay is not the result of any act of the
permittee or owner of the premises.
3.   Unlawful Signs. If the City Administrator/Clerk finds that any sign
regulated herein has been maintained, constructed, or erected in violation of
the provisions of this chapter, they shall promptly give written notice by mail
or personal service to the owner of the premises upon which the sign is located
to remedy the violation. If the permittee or owner fails to remove or alter the
structure so as to comply with the standards herein set forth within one
business day after such notice, the City Administrator/Clerk, at the expense of
the permittee or owner of the property upon which it is located, may initiate
removal or alteration of the sign. The City Administrator/Clerk may refuse to
issue a permit to any permittee or owner who refuses to pay costs so assessed
provided such authority is confined to the premises where the violation
occurred. The procedure outlined in this section shall apply only where no
specific remedy, enforcement actions, or other penalties are specifically
stated within the section at issue.
4.   General Maintenance. The City Administrator/Clerk, after 10-days' notice
to the sign owner, may order the removal of any sign that is not maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. All costs associated with the
removal of a sign may be assessed against the property or building upon which
the sign is located. However, if the owner of the sign has promptly ordered the
necessary parts to repair the sign and has not received them, or has promptly
ordered the repair work done by an authorized erector and the erector has
failed to respond within the 24-hour period, then a further extension of time
may be granted by the City Administrator/Clerk upon a verified statement that
such delay is not the result of any act of the permittee or owner of the
premises.
167.20   APPEAL PROCEDURE.
1.   Appeal Procedure: The individual or entity affected by any decision,
interpretation, or order made by the City Administrator/Clerk regarding the
enforcement of this chapter may appeal to the City Council within 10 days from
the date of the decision by filing with the City Administrator/Clerk a notice
of appeal specifying the grounds for the appeal and tendering the filing fee of
$100.00. The City Clerk shall forthwith transmit to the City Council all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from is taken. An appeal
stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from except for
unsafe signs which present an immediate and serious danger to the public, and
the provisions elsewhere provided for in this chapter shall be applicable.
2.   Public Hearing. The City Council shall, upon the filing of an appeal, fix
a reasonable time for a hearing on same, giving public notice thereof as well
as due notice to the parties in interest. All interested persons may offer oral
or written testimony at the public hearing on the appeal and every variation
and exception granted or denied by the City Council shall be written testimony
or evidence submitted in connection therewith. A simple majority vote of the
City Council may affirm, modify or reverse the order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the City Administrator/Clerk.
3.   Appeal To District Court. Any person or any officer, department, board, or
bureau of the City jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the City
Council on matters subject to this chapter may within 30 days from date of the
filing of the decision by the City Council, appeal therefrom to the District
Court of Clayton County in accordance with the rules of civil procedure.
167.21   PENALTIES.
The City Administrator/Clerk is hereby authorized and empowered to revoke any
permits issued upon failure of the holder thereof to comply with any provisions
of this chapter or conditions of approval included with the issuance of said
permit. Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a municipal infraction punishable in accordance with the
provisions of
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances. After a conviction of violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter, each day that a violation is permitted to exist
constitutes a separate and distinct violation.
167.22   PERMITTED SIGNS BY ZONING DISTRICT.
The following sign regulations apply in specific zoning districts, as noted:
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (A-1)
1.   Nameplates attached flat against the wall of the main building not to exceed
three square feet in area.
2.   Church or public bulletin boards not to exceed 12 square feet in area.
3.   Temporary signs advertising the lease or sale of the premises not to exceed six
square feet in area.
4.   Advertising signs provided:
   (a)   They are not within 300 feet of an intersection, highway, structure,
residence, or billboard.
   (b)   They are not within 100 feet of a park, school, cemetery, public or semi-
public building.
   (c)   They are not within 75 feet of the centerline of a City or county road, or
100 feet of a State or federal highway.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1)
1.   Nameplates attached flat against the wall of the main building not to exceed
three square feet in area.
2.   Identification signs and home occupation signs not to exceed six square feet in
area.
3.   Church or public bulletin boards not to exceed 12 square feet in area.
4.   Temporary signs advertising the lease or sale of the premises not to exceed six
square feet in area.
5.   Illumination of all signs shall be indirect, non-intermittent lighting.
6.   Signs and bulletin boards shall be at least 20 feet from the front lot line or
not more than five feet in front of the main building.
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2)
1.   Nameplates attached flat against the wall of the main building not to exceed
three square feet in area.
2.   Identification signs and home occupation signs not to exceed six square feet in
area.
3.   Church or public bulletin boards not to exceed 12 square feet in area.
4.   Temporary signs advertising the lease or sale of the premises not to exceed six
square feet in area.
5.   Illumination of signs shall be indirect, non-intermittent lighting.
6.   Signs and bulletin boards shall be at least 20 feet from the front lot line or
not more than five feet in front of the main building.
RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT (R-3)
1.   Nameplates attached flat against the wall of the main building not to exceed
three square feet in area.
2.   Identification signs and home occupation signs not to exceed six square feet in
area.
3.   Church or public bulletin boards not to exceed 12 square feet in area.
4.   Temporary signs advertising the lease or sale of the premises not to exceed six
square feet in area.
5.   Illumination of all signs shall be indirect, non-intermittent lighting.
6.   Signs and bulletin boards shall be at least 20 feet from the front lot line or
not more than five feet in front of the main building.
MANUFACTURED/MODULAR/MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT (R-4)
1.   Nameplates attached flat against the wall of the main building not to exceed
three square feet in area.
2.   Identification signs and home occupation signs not to exceed six square feet in
area.
3.   Church or public bulletin boards not to exceed 12 square feet in area.
4.   Temporary signs advertising the lease or sale of the premises not to exceed six
square feet in area.
5.   Illumination of all signs shall be indirect, non-intermittent lighting.
6.   Signs and bulletin boards shall be at least 20 feet from the front lot line or
not more than five feet in front of the main building.
HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-1)
1.   Trade, business or industry identification signs provided that they:
   (a)   Do not exceed 25 feet in height.
   (b)   Are not within 25 feet of an “A” or “R” District.
   (c)   Do not overhang the public right-of-way except those signs which project not
more than one foot beyond the front face or integral part of the building other than
identification signs of less than two square feet in area.
   (d)   Are not within 25 feet of a highway intersection or highway structure.
2.   Advertising signs provided that they:
   (a)   Do not exceed 25 feet in height.
   (b)   Are not within 25 feet of an “A” or “R” District.
   (c)   Are not within 75 feet of billboard.
   (d)   Do not exceed 100 square feet in area.
3.   No sign shall be located in, overhang, or project into a required yard.
GENERAL OFFICE AND RETAIL DISTRICT (C-2)
Signs in the C-2 District must be visually appealing, constructed of durable
material, maintained in good condition and shall not be allowed to become
dilapidated, faded, peeled and blistered. No sign shall be placed in such a position
that it will endanger public safety by obstructing a view, door, window or fire
escape or by shining excessive light onto the street. Due to the historic nature of
the C-2 District, signs shall be designed to be compatible with their surroundings
and appropriate to the architectural characteristics of the buildings on which they
are placed. Microwave or dish antennas are not allowed on the facades of buildings in
the Central Business District. Their placement elsewhere will be allowed only on
approval by the City Administrator/Clerk.
1.   Advertising signs, trade signs, business or industry identification signs
provided that:
   (a)   Free standing signs (monument) shall not exceed 25 feet in height and 60
square feet in area per face.
   (b)   Signs attached to a building (wall signs or projecting signs) shall not:
•   project above the height of the building,
•   or more than eight feet from the wall of the building,
•   and shall not be less than 12 feet above ground level.
•   Projecting signs shall not hang at a distance greater than two feet from the face
of the wall of the building.
•   Projecting signs may not project more than 60 inches from the building or to the
back side of curb, whichever is the lesser distance. This is the maximum length of
any sign allowed.
   (c)   Wall signs are generally limited to the storefront; however, up to 25% of
the sign may project onto the upper façade as long as no other rules are violated,
such as covering a window.
•   Sign size must be in proportion to the storefront and building as a whole. For
wall signs, a ratio of one square foot of sign area per each linear foot of
storefront determines the maximum signage area;
•   All buildings shall be allowed a minimum signage area of 25 square feet.
•   A permanent window sign should not obscure more than 25% of the storefront window
area.
2.   No sign shall be located in, overhang, or project into a required yard.
3.   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition and in the
event their use shall cease, they shall be promptly removed and the surrounding area
restored to a condition free from refuse and rubbish. An existing sign shall be
considered a new sign if 50 percent of the building materials need to be replaced, in
which case, provisions of this chapter must be followed.
4.   Permanent inflatable and banner signs are not allowed.
5.   Signs may not cover any architectural detail, cornices, or windows.
6.   Signs my not be painted, vinyl application or etched into the storefront
windows.
Non-permanent window signs should not obscure more than 25% of the storefront window
area.
A window sign that serves as the primary business sign does not factor into this
calculation;
7.   New buildings must provide a sign frieze in order to define a strong boundary
between the storefront upper façade. The transitional beam is considered part of the
storefront and signage should not cover it.
INDUSTRIAL PARK (M-1)
1.   Temporary signs advertising the sale or lease of the premises not to exceed 32
square feet in area.
2.   Adverstising signs, provided:
   (a)   They are not within 150 feet of a highway intersection, highway structure,
residence, park, school, cemetery, public or semi-public building.
   (b)   Signs mounted flush on the wall of a building.
2.   Trade, business or industry identification signs for the firm located on the
site provided that:
   (a)   Free standing signs shall not exceed 150 square feet in area or 25 feet in
height.
   (b)   Signs mounted flush on the wall of a building.
   (c)   Overhanging signs, attached to a building may project above the height of
the building.
   (d)   Not more than one sign of each category above may be provided for any single
use, although each sign may be a double-faced or back-to-back sign.
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (M-2)
1.   Temporary signs advertising the sale or lease of the premises not to exceed 32
square feet in area.
2.   Advertising signs provided:
   (a)   They are not within 150 feet of a highway intersection, highway structure,
residence, park, school, cemetery, public or semi-public building.
   (b)   They are not within 150 feet of another advertising sign.
3.   Trade, business or industry identification signs for the firm located on the
site provided that:
   (a)   Free standing signs shall not exceed 150 square feet in area or 25 feet in
height.
   (b)   Signs mounted flush on the wall of a building.
   (c)   Overhanging signs, attached to a building may project above the height of
the building.
   (d)   Not more than one sign of each category above may be provided for any single
use, although each sign may be a double-faced or back-to-back sign.
4.    For regulations regarding signs for Adult Entertainment Establishments see
Section 165.08.
 
(Section 167.22 – Ord. 2024-03 – Jan. 25 Supp.)
