CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF ELK RUN HEIGHTS, IOWA
Current through Ord. 288. passed 4-9-24
Adopted November 8, 2022, by Ordinance No. 279
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date     Subject
Nov-23    75.09                   280      4-11-23  Permits
          99.01(6)                281      9-12-23  Capital Project Fee
          7.09                    282      11-14-23 State Income Setoff Program
Apr-24    40.05                   283      12-12-23 Noise and Vibrations
          17.04(1)                284      1-9-24   Council Meetings
          40.05(1)(B)(6)          284      4-9-24   Noise and Vibrations
                                  285               Not Used
                                  286               In Process
                                  287               In Process
          Ch. 160                 288      4-9-24   Floodplain Management
Oct-24    99.01                   286      6-11-24  Sewer Service Charges
          13.04.050               287      6-11-24  Repealed
          65.03                   289      8-13-24  Stop or Yield Required
          92.02(1 and 2)          290      6-26-24  Water Service Charges
          63.04(4)                291      7-9-24   Special Speed Zones
          Ch. 156;                                  Illicit Discharge Detection
          Ch. 157                 292      8-13-24  and Elimination; Storm
                                                    Water Management
          Ch. 161                 293      9-10-24  Right-Of-Way Work
          Ch. 10                  294      10-8-24  Elk Run Heights Housing
                                                    Urban Renewal Area
                                                    September 2024 Addition to
          Ch. 10                  295      9-10-24  the Elk Run Heights Urban
                                                    Renewal Area
          165.06                  296      10-8-24  Rezoning from C to R-1
          165.06                  297      11-12-24 Rezoning from A to R-1
Jul-25    Ch. 10                  298      1-28-25  Elk Run Heights Housing
                                                    Urban Renewal Area
          Ch. 10                  299      1-28-25  Elk Run Heights Housing
                                                    Urban Renewal Area
          92.02(1)(A, B, and C)   300      6-12-25  Water Service Charges
          99.01                   301      6-12-25  Sewer Service Charges
          57.01;                  302      5-13-25  LIvestock; Urban Chickens
          Ch.59
          Ch. 8                   303      4-8-25   Debts Subject to the Setoff
                                                    Program
          41.17                   304      6-12-25  Kratom
 
   Prepared By:   Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
      DBA Iowa Codification
      P. O. Box 244
      114 E 5 th Street
      Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
      (641) 355-4072
      www.sc-ic.com
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
   This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Elk Run Heights, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the
Code of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances
unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
Council or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases
used herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise
in another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would
be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
   1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   2.   “City” means the city of Elk Run Heights, Iowa.
   3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Elk Run Heights, Iowa.
   4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
   5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of Elk
Run Heights, Iowa.
   6.   “Council” means the city council of Elk Run Heights, Iowa.
   7.   “County” means Black Hawk County, Iowa.
   8.   “IAC” means the Iowa Administrative Code.
   9.   “May” confers a power.
   10.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.
   11.   “Must” states a requirement.
   12.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   13.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Elk Run Heights,
Iowa, as embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the
ordinance adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
   14.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   15.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   16.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   17.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge
of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   18.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   19.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
   20.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
   The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if
not inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power
and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the
rights, privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and
convenience of its residents, and each and every provision of this Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and
the performance of the foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
   The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
   When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to
have been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person
by whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
   Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
   All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
   If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
   Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the
Council or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does
not specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$105.00 but not to exceed $855.00. The court may order imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days in lieu of a fine or in addition to a fine.† 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Elk Run Heights,
Iowa.† 2
 
Notes
2 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 86 adopting a charter for the City was passed and
  approved by the Council on June 30, 1975.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of the City is the Mayor/Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for terms of
two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
   The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the
official records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies
of the charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1[3])
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.04 Civil Citations
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.05 Alternative Relief
3.03 Penalties               3.06 Alternative Penalties
 
3.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
   A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein
adopted by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty
required by the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically
provided under State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious
misdemeanor, or a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code
of Iowa, is a municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided
herein.† 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
3 Ordinances, see Section
  1.14.
3.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
   A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of
Iowa or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the
Department of Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental
violation. However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable
until the City has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding
the violation or to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8.
   2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
   3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03   PENALTIES.
   A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
      A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
      B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
   Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a
repeat offense.
   2.   Special Civil Penalties.
      A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each
day a violation exists or continues.
      B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
         (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the
time that the violation begins.
         (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
   Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may
issue a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy
of the citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
   1.   The name and address of the defendant.
   2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
   3.   The location and time of the infraction.
   4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
   5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
   6.   The time and place of court appearance.
   7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
3.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[9])
3.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
   This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal
citation for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal
penalties are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit
the authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances
by criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[12])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings               
 
5.01   OATHS.
   The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
   2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in Elk
Run Heights as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
   3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
      A.   Mayor
      B.   City Clerk
      C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
   Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
   1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
   2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
   3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])
   4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[1a] and [3])
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open
to examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
   Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06   MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
   1.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date, and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
   2.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   3.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time
and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   4.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting
and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
   5.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
   6.   Electronic Meetings. A meeting may be conducted by electronic means
only in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or
impractical and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect,
in any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services
to be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
   1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
   2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
   3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
   4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
   5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
   6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has
an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee
was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
   7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
   8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
   9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
   10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a
cumulative total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
   11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
   12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or ositi of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
   An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a
resignation in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and
considered. A person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for
appointment to the same office during the time for which the person was elected
if, during that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10   VACANCIES.
   A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled
in accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11   GIFTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
   All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
   Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 10 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
   The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
   Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy.
The petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5, and 45.6)
6.05   FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
   The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of
validity thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the
effect of such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of
such petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by
the appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
   The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on
the ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose                      7.06 Budget Amendments
7.02 Finance Officer              7.07 Accounting
7.03 Cash Control                 7.08 Financial Reports
7.04 Fund Control                 7.09 Setoff Program Provisions
7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules
and regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
   The City Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City and is
responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
   To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following
shall apply:
   1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any
City officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If
any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
   2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
   3.   Petty Cash Fund. The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty cash
fund for the payment of small claims for minor purchases, collect-on-delivery
transportation charges, and small fees customarily paid at the time of
rendering a service, for which payments the finance officer shall obtain some
form of receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or agent. At such
time as the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the finance officer shall
draw a check for replenishment in the amount of the accumulated expenditures
and said check and supporting detail shall be submitted to the Council as a
claim in the usual manner for claims and charged to the proper funds and
accounts. It shall not be used for salary payments or other personal services
or personal expenses.
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
   There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
   2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
   3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(545 IAC 2.5[2])
   4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[3])
   5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited
by State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[4])
   6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net ositionn calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
      A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
      B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(545 IAC 2.5[5])
   7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of
each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
   The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation
of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption
by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
   2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other
administrative agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and
administer budgets must submit their budget proposals to the finance officer
for inclusion in the proposed City budget at such time and in such form as
required by the Council.
   3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
   4.   Resolution Establishing Maximum Property Tax Dollars. The Council shall
adopt a resolution establishing the total maximum property tax dollars that may
be certified for levy that includes taxes for City government purposes under
Code of Iowa Section 384.1, for the City’s trust and agency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.6, Subsection 1, for the City’s emergency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.8, and for the levies authorized under Code of Iowa Section
384.12, Subsections 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, and 21, but excluding additions
approved at election under Code of Iowa Section 384.12, Subsection 19.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.15A)
      A.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
resolution before the date for adoption of the resolution and shall publish
notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days prior to the
hearing in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
      B.   If the City has an internet site, the notice shall also be posted
and clearly identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning
on the date of the newspaper publication or public posting, as applicable.
Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on one or more
social media applications, the public hearing notice or an electronic link to
the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such account on the same day
as the publication of the notice. All of the following shall be included in the
notice:
         (1)   The sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property taxes
certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection and the
current fiscal year’s combined property tax levy rate for such amount that is
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
         (2)   The effective tax rate calculated using the sum of the current
fiscal year’s actual property taxes certified for levy under the levies
specified in this subsection, applicable to taxable property in the City other
than property used and assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
         (3)   The sum of the proposed maximum property tax dollars that may be
certified for levy for the budget year under the levies specified in this
subsection and the proposed combined property tax levy rate for such amount
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
         (4)   If the proposed maximum property tax dollars specified under
Subparagraph (3) exceed the current fiscal year’s actual property tax dollars
certified for levy specified in Subparagraph (1), a statement of the major
reasons for the increase.
Proof of publication shall be filed with and preserved by the County Auditor.
The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the public hearing
notice for cities and the form for the resolution to be adopted by the Council
under Paragraph C of this subsection.
      C.   At the public hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written
objections from any resident or property owner of the City. After all
objections have been received and considered, the Council may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed maximum property tax dollar amount for inclusion in the
resolution and shall adopt the resolution and file the resolution with the
County Auditor as required under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3.
      D.   If the sum of the maximum property tax dollars for the budget year
specified in the resolution under the levies specified in this subsection
exceeds 102 percent of the sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property
taxes certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection, the
Council shall be required to adopt the resolution by a two-thirds majority of
the membership of the Council.
      E.   If the City has an internet site, in addition to filing the
resolution with the Auditor under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3,
the adopted resolution shall be posted and clearly identified on the City’s
internet site for public viewing within 10 days of approval by the Council. The
posted resolution for a budget year shall continue to be accessible for public
viewing on the internet site along with resolutions posted for all subsequent
budget years.
   5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may
make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
   6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until adoption of the resolution
required under Subsection 4 of this section, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before March 31 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice.  Proof of publication of the notice under
this subsection and a copy of the resolution adopted under Subsection 4 of this
section must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
   7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that
the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days
before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number
of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and City Clerk and have a copy posted at one of the places designated for
the posting of notices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
   8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt,
by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing or the applicable amount specified in the resolution adopted
under Subsection 4 of this section. Two copies each of the detailed budget as
adopted and of the tax certificate must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
   A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes
effective July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and
purpose specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
   1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(545 IAC 2.2)
   2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(545 IAC 2.3)
   3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(545 IAC 2.4)
   4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(545 IAC 2.4)
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
   The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
   1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
   2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
   3.   Checks. Two signatures are required on all City checks. Checks shall be
prenumbered and signed by any two of the following: Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem,
Clerk, or Deputy Clerk, following Council approval, except as provided by
Subsection 5 hereof.
   4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
   5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize
the Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not
paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
   6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
   1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
   2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. A copy of the annual report must be filed
with the Auditor of State not later than December 1 of each year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
7.09   SETOFF PROGRAM PROVISIONS.
   This section shall establish policies and procedures for the City pursuant
to Section 421.65 of the Code of Iowa, to allow the City to utilize and invoke
the setoff program provisions of the State for collection of debts owed to the
City and for which the City has provided the obligor with an opportunity to
contest.
   1.   Definitions. The following terms are defined for use in this section:
      A.   “Department” means the Iowa Department of Revenue.
      B.   “Obligor” means a person, not including a public agency, who has
been determined to owe a qualifying debt.
      C.   “Public agency” means a board, commission, department, including the
Department of Revenue, or other administrative office or unit of the State or
any other State entity reported in the Iowa Annual Comprehensive Financial
Report, or a political subdivision of the State, or an office or unit of a
political subdivision. Public agency does include the Clerk of the District
Court as it relates to the collection of a qualifying debt. Public agency does
not include the general assembly or Office of the Governor.
      D.   “Public payment” means any claim a public agency owes to an obligor.
      E.   “Qualifying debt” means any of the following:
         (1)   Any debt, which is assigned to the Department of Health and
Human Services, or which is owed to the Department of Health and Human Services
for unpaid premiums under Section 249A.3(2)(a)(1) of the Code of Iowa, or which
child support services is otherwise attempting to collect, or which foster care
services of the Department of Health and Human Services is attempting to
collect on behalf of a child receiving foster care provided by the Department
of Health and Human Services.
         (2)   Any debt which is in the form of a liquidated sum due, owing,
and payable to the Clerk of the District Court.
         (3)   Any liquidated sum certain, owning and payable to a public
agency, with respect to which the public agency has provided the obligor an
opportunity to protest or challenge the sum in a manner in compliance with
applicable law and due process, and which has been determined as owing through
the challenge or protest, or for which the time period provided by the public
agency to challenge, or protest has expired.
   2.   Memorandum of Understanding. The City shall enter into a memorandum of
understanding with the Department which shall outline the program guidelines
for use of the State Setoff Program.
   3.   Qualifying Debt. The Clerk shall only certify to the Department
qualifying debt as approved by the Department through the completion of a
qualifying debt questionnaire and for which the City has provided appropriate
documentation showing the City’s legal authority for charging, implementing a
fine or fee for violation of, or imposing costs related to the abatement of
certain conditions when appropriate legal authority exists to the City. The
qualifying debt questionnaire may be updated from time to time as required by
the City to add or remove qualifying debt or as needed by the Department.
   4.   Due Process. Prior to submission of a debt to the Department the City
shall provide the obligor due process as outlined in this section prior to the
submission of a debt:
      A.   With respect to the qualifying debt, the City shall provide the
obligor with 15 days’ advance written notice to the obligor’s last-known
address. Such notice shall provide the obligor with a minimum period of 15 days
in which they may file an appeal in writing to the Clerk.
      B.   Upon receipt of a written request for an appeal on a debt to be
submitted to the Setoff Program the Clerk shall schedule a hearing with the
Council for the next regularly scheduled meeting and notify the obligor of the
hearing date and time at least five days in advance of the hearing.
      C.   At the time and date of the hearing, the Council shall hear any
evidence brought forth by the obligor and shall examine the City’s file
regarding the matter. The Council shall make a ruling upon a majority vote of
the members in attendance.
      D.   If the qualifying debt is upheld by the Council and the debt has not
yet been paid by the obligor, the Clerk may certify the delinquency to the
Department pursuant to the Section 421.65 of the Code of Iowa and the
memorandum of understanding between the City and the Department.
(Section 7.09 – Ord. 282 – Nov. 23 Supp.)
CHAPTER 8
DEBT SETOFF PROGRAM
 
8.01 Purpose                            8.03 Procedure for Certification to the
                                        Iowa Department of Revenue for Setoff
8.02 Debt Subject to Setoff
Constituting "Qualifying Debt" Pursuant
to Iowa Code 421.65
 
8.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and procedures pursuant
to Iowa Code 421.65, authorizing the City to invoke the setoff provisions
contained therein for debts owing the City and for which the City has afforded
the debtor the opportunity to contest the debt.
8.02   DEBTS SUBJECT TO SETOFF CONSTITUTING “QUALIFYING DEBT” PURSUANT TO IOWA
CODE 421.65.
   All debts or charges authorized herein by the City of Elk Run Heights Code
or otherwise set by resolution approved by the Elk Run Heights City Council
shall be deemed “qualifying debts” subject to the provisions of Iowa Code
421.65, for which the City shall provide those procedures as set out herein
Chapter 8 of the City Code. Such “qualifying debts” include, but are not
limited to the following:
   1.   Past-due utility bills – water, sewer, storm water, garbage service;
   2.   Past-due sidewalk repair/replacement costs;
   3.   Past-due sidewalk snow/ice removal invoice;
   4.   Past-due mowing invoice.
   5.   Past-due tree trimming/removal invoice;
   6.   Past-due nuisance abatement invoice;
   7.   Past-due building permit fee invoice;
   8.   Past-due animal impound fee invoice;
   9.   Past-due connection fees, permit fees, private water lines, curb box
(shut off), water meters;
   10.   Past-due subdivision/planning fees including engineering fees incurred
on behalf of developer;
   11.   Any debt which is in the form of a liquidated sum due, owing, and
payable to the Clerk of the District Court; and
   12.   Any other liquidated sum certain, owing, and payable to the City of
Elk Run Heights, Iowa, with respect to which the City has afforded the debtor
notice provided herein.
8.03   PROCEDURE FOR CERTIFICATION TO THE IOWA DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE FOR
SETOFF.
   With respect to any debt herein, the City shall provide the debtor fifteen
(15) days advance written notice to the debtor’s last-known address, affording
the debtor a period of fifteen (15) days within which to protest or appeal the
delinquency to the Finance Director for the City. If the delinquency is upheld
by the Finance Director, or the debtor has not paid the debt within fifteen
(15) of the date of the notice, the City may certify the delinquency to the
Iowa Department of Revenue for purposes of collection pursuant to Iowa Code
421.65.
(Chapter 8 – Ord. 303 – Jul. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 10
URBAN RENEWAL
 
10.01 Purpose     10.03 Provisions for Division of Taxes Levied on Taxable
                  Property in the Urban Renewal Area
10.02 Definitions  
 
10.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this ordinance is to provide for the division of taxes levied
on the taxable property in the 2014 Elk Run Heights Urban Renewal Area, each
year by and for the benefit of the State, City, County, school districts, or
other taxing districts after the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter in order to create a special fund to pay the principal of and
interest on loans, moneys advanced to, or indebtedness, including bonds
proposed to be issued by the City of Elk Run Heights to finance projects in
such area.
10.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use within this ordinance the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
      1.   “City” shall mean the City of Elk Run Heights, Iowa.
      2.   “County” shall mean Black Hawk County, Iowa.
      3.   “Urban Renewal Area” shall mean the 2014 Elk Run Heights Urban
Renewal Area, the boundaries of which are set out below, such area having been
identified in the Urban Renewal Plan approved by the City Council by resolution
adopted on July 8, 2014.
   Certain real property situated in the City of Elk Run Heights, Black Hawk
County, Iowa, more particularly described as follows:
   Legal description for property located at 5331 Lafayette Road, Elk Run
Heights, Iowa:
   That part of the Northwest Fractional Quarter of Section No. 4, Township No.
88 North, Range No. 12, West of the Fifth Principal Meridian, Black Hawk
County, Iowa, lying with the following described boundaries:
   Beginning at a point on the North line of said Section that is 1332.3 feet
East of the Northwest Corner of said Section; thence East along said North line
to a point which is 2155 feet East of the Southwest corner of Section No. 34,
Township No. 89 North, Range No. 12 West of the Fifth Principal Meridian, Black
Hawk County, Iowa; thence South at right angles a distance of 375.4 feet;
thence West at right angles and parallel to the North line of said Section to a
point on a line drawn through the point of beginning and perpendicular to the
North line of said Section; thence North a right angles 375.4 feet to the point
of beginning.
   Except the North 50 feet thereof conveyed to Black Hawk County, Iowa, for
road purposes and also except those parts conveyed to the State of Iowa for
road purposes in 117 LD 159 and 117 LD 343.
10.03   PROVISIONS FOR DIVISION OF TAXES LEVIED ON TAXABLE PROPERTY IN THE
URBAN RENEWAL AREA.
   After the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, the
taxes levied on the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area each year by and
for the benefit of the State of Iowa, the City, the County, and any school
district or other taxing district in which the Urban Renewal Area is located,
shall be divided as follows:
   1.   That portion of the taxes which would be produced by the rate at which
the tax is levied each year by or for each of the taxing districts upon the
total sum of the assessed value of the taxable property in the Urban Renewal
Area, as shown on the assessment roll as of January 1 of the calendar year
preceding the first calendar year in which the City certifies to the County
Auditor the amount of loans, advances, indebtedness, or bonds payable from the
special fund referred to in Subsection 2 below, shall be allocated to and when
collected be paid into the fund for the respective taxing district as taxes by
or for said taxing district into which all other property taxes are paid. For
the purpose of allocating taxes levied by or for any taxing district which did
not include the territory in the Urban Renewal Area on the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this chapter, but to which the territory has been
annexed or otherwise included after the effective date, the assessment roll
applicable to property in the annexed territory as of January 1 of the calendar
year preceding the effective date of the ordinance which amends the plan for
the Urban Renewal Area to include the annexed area, shall be used in
determining the assessed valuation of the taxable property in the annexed area.
   2.   That portion of the taxes each year in excess of such amounts shall be
allocated to and when collected be paid into a special fund of the City to pay
the principal of and interest on loans, moneys advanced to or indebtedness,
whether funded, refunded, assumed, or otherwise, including bonds issued under
the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, incurred by the City to
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects in the Urban Renewal Area,
and to provide assistance for low and moderate-income family housing as
provided in Section 403.22, except that taxes for the regular and voter-
approved physical plant and equipment levy of a school district imposed
pursuant to Section 298.2 of the Code of Iowa, taxes for the instructional
support program of a school district imposed pursuant to Section 257.19 of the
Code of Iowa, and taxes for the payment of bonds and interest of each taxing
district shall be collected against all taxable property within the taxing
district without limitation by the provisions of this ordinance. Unless and
until the total assessed valuation of the taxable property in the Urban Renewal
Area exceeds the total assessed value of the taxable property in such area as
shown by the assessment roll referred to in Subsection 1 of this section, all
of the taxes levied and collected upon the taxable property in the Urban
Renewal Area shall be paid into the funds for the respective taxing districts
as taxes by or for said taxing districts in the same manner as all other
property taxes. When such loans, advances, indebtedness, and bonds, if any, and
interest thereon, have been paid, all money thereafter received from taxes upon
the taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area shall be paid into the funds for
the respective taxing districts in the same manner as taxes on all other
property.
   3.   The portion of taxes mentioned in Subsection 2 of this section and the
special fund into which that portion shall be paid may be irrevocably pledged
by the City for the payment of the principal and interest on loans, advances,
bonds issued under the authority of Section 403.9(1) of the Code of Iowa, or
indebtedness incurred by the City to finance or refinance in whole or in part
projects in the Urban Renewal Area.
   4.   As used in this section, the word “taxes” includes, but is not limited
to, all levies on an ad valorem basis upon land or real property.
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO ADOPTED            NAME OF AREA
294          October 8, 2024    Elk Run Heights Housing Urban Renewal Area
295          September 10, 2024 September 2024 Addition to the Elk Run Heights
                                Urban Renewal Area
298          January 28, 2025   Elk Run Heights Housing Urban Renewal Area
299          January 28, 2025   Elk Run Heights Housing Urban Renewal Area
 
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor is elected for a term of two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
   1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
give direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments,
and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
   3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain
the reasons for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the
veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6[2])
   5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
   6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered
into in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the
City where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law,
ordinance, or Council direction.
   7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf
of the City.
   8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City
such specialized and professional services not already available to the City.
In executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with
this Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
   9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
   10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
   11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
   The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
   1.   Mayor Pro Tem
   2.   Library Representative
   3.   Board of Adjustment, Mayor shall appoint with Council approval.
15.04   COMPENSATION.
   The salary of the Mayor is $5,000.00 per year, paid quarterly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.05   VOTING.
   The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem
shall perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the
Mayor to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the
Mayor Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from
employment officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint,
employ, or discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
   The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
   If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
   The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for terms of
two years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 376.2)
 
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   2.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16 and 384.38[1])
   3.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   4.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 26)
   5.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   6.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other
elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not
become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of a
regular City election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes
effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council
members elected at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
   The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
   1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
   2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:
      A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
      B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
      C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
      D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
      E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage,
and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of
the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
   “All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the
Council including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does
not include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
   1.   Regular Meetings. The regular meetings of the Council are on the second
Tuesday of each month at 5:00 p.m. at Council Chambers at City Hall. If such
day falls on a legal holiday, the meeting is held the following day at mutually
agreeable time, as determined by the Council. The Council may change the
regular meeting date and time by resolution when necessary.
(Ord. 284 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
   2.   The Council may change the regular meeting date and time by resolution
when necessary.
   3.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor
or upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   4.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
   5.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   6.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
   The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their
powers, duties, compensation, and term of office:
   1.   City Clerk
   2.   City Attorney
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission
17.06   COMPENSATION.
   The salary of each Council member is $50.00 for each meeting of the Council
attended, payable annually.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification                 
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   At its first meeting in January following the regular City election, the
Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk to serve for a term of two
years. The Clerk shall receive such compensation as established by resolution
of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
   The Clerk (or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk)
has the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances,
and the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
   Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting, the Clerk shall cause
the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published. Such publication shall
include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall
show the gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
   The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 and 2])
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
   The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments,
proceedings, and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
   1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
   2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of
Ordinances or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City, except that ordinances and amendments
may be published by posting in the following places:
City Hall
First Security Bank
Evansdale Public Library
The Clerk is hereby directed to post promptly such ordinances and amendments,
and to leave them so posted for not less than 10 days after the first date of
posting. Unauthorized removal of the posted ordinance or amendment prior to the
completion of the 10 days shall not affect the validity of said ordinance or
amendment. The Clerk shall note the first date of such posting on the official
copy of the ordinance and in the official ordinance book immediately following
the ordinance.
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
   The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
   The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district,
building lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or
limits to the recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
   1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances
and codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
   2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents (or accurate
reproductions) for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions)
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the
final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions) relating to
real property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 and 5])
   4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of
any record, paper, or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 and 5] and 380.7[5])
   5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record
of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
   The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to
offices in the City government of their positions and the time at which they
shall assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   ELECTIONS.
   The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13   CITY SEAL.
   The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the
Clerk to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or
proper to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of
which are the words “ELK RUN HEIGHTS, IOWA“ and around the margin of which are
the words “CITY SEAL.”
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
   The City Clerk is the Treasurer and performs all functions required of the
position of Treasurer.
19.02   COMPENSATION.
   The Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing the duties of
the Treasurer.
19.03   DUTIES OF TREASURER.
   The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
   2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
   3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received.
   4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
   5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by
the Treasurer from special assessments.
   6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
   7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s
books and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of
each fund and amounts received and disbursed.
   8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
   9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.05 Review and Comment
20.02 Attorney for City            20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.08 Prepare Documents
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve at the
discretion of the Council. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as
established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
   The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters
affecting the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any
court, tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or
defend all actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
   The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving
an opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to
or coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
   The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor, Council, Clerk, or department heads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
   The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts,
forms, and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 22
LIBRARY SERVICES
22.01   JOINT AGREEMENT.
   An agreement for Library Services was entered into, between the City and the
Dunkerton Public Library, pursuant to Chapter 28E of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies                       
 
23.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of five members appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 and 392.1)
23.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be five years. The
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03   VACANCIES.
   If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise,
a successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the same manner
as the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04   COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its
first regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as
Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
the Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and
duties and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other
related matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes, or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
   4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of
subdivisions or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid
out in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to
the Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the
Mayor and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 30
CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT
30.01   CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   The Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other qualified
lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City, and the
peace officers shall have and exercise the powers and duties as provided in
said contract and as required by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 35
FIRE PROTECTION
35.01   JOINT AGREEMENT.
   An Agreement for Fire Protection Services was entered into, between the City
and the City of Waterloo, Iowa, pursuant to Chapter 28E of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Liability
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
   In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal, and cleanup of
hazardous substance spills within the City limits.
36.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control,
identify, analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
   2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual,
imminent, or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance
onto the land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates
an immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
   3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
   4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
36.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
   Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection,
dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the
hazardous substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the
environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including
ground waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied
by a cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety, and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
36.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
   The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
   1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
   2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
   3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of,
or loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction, or loss.
   4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents
of the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused
by that person.
36.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
   1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing
of a hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources
and the peace officer of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as
possible but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous
condition or discovery of the hazardous condition. The peace officer shall
immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources.
   2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
peace officer, which shall then notify the Department of Natural Resources.
36.06   POLICE AUTHORITY.
   If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or
an authorized representative may:
   1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
   2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
36.07   LIABILITY.
   The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries,
or losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault            40.04 Failure to Disperse
40.02 Harassment         40.05 Noise and Vibrations
40.03 Disorderly Conduct
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
   No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
   1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
   2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
   An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
   No person shall commit harassment.
   1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
      A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal
act, knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or
in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that
sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1a])
   2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which intentionally or recklessly causes unreasonable distress
to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1b])
   3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1c])
   4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1d])
   5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate
a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such
report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1e])
   6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1f])
      A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
      B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
      C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
      D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
      E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
      F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
   7.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
      B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction
by another.
      C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession, or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession, or burial.
   This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
40.05   NOISE AND VIBRATIONS.
   1.   Prohibited Noises Generally.
      A.   Standards for Determination of Violation. It is unlawful for any
person to permit, make, continue, or cause any excessive or unusually loud
noise or any noise which annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort,
repose, health, peace, or safety of others within the limits of the City. The
standards which shall be considered in determining whether a violation exists
shall include the following:
         (1)   The sound pressure level of the noise.
         (2)   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or manmade.
         (3)   The sound pressure level of the background noise.
         (4)   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities.
         (5)   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise
emanates.
         (6)   The time of the day or night the noise occurs.
         (7)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
      B.   Enumeration of Prohibited Acts. Each of the following acts, among
others, is hereby declared to be in violation of this section and is
prohibited. The following enumerated acts shall not be construed as limiting or
precluding enforcement of any other provision of this section.
         (1)   Loud Operation of Radios, Etc. The using, operating, or
permitting to be placed, used, or operated of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, or other machine or device for the providing or reproducing of
sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of the
neighboring inhabitants.
         (2)   Operation of Defective or Improperly Loaded Vehicle. The use of
any automobile, motorcycle, or vehicle so out of repair or so loaded in such
manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other
noise.
         (3)   Creation of Noise Near Schools or Churches. The creation of loud
and excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of
learning, or church while the school, institution, or church are in use, which
unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institution or which disturbs
or unduly annoys those using the buildings.
         (4)   Repairing Vehicle During Certain Hours. The repair or rebuilding
of any motor vehicle within any residential area of the City between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in such a manner that the reasonable person of
normal sensitivities residing in the area is caused discomfort or annoyance.
         (5)   Discharge of Unmuffled Exhaust. The discharge into the open air
of the exhaust of any steam engine, internal combustion engine, motorboat, or
motor vehicle, or discharge of air or other gases, except through a muffler or
other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
         (6)      Unnecessary Use of Engine Brakes. The use of engine and
compression breaks or any other engine brake within the City limits, except as
required for safety purposes.
(Ord. 284 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
   2.   Group Noise. When a group of persons act together to create noise, each
individual shall be deemed responsible as though solely the principal person
producing the resultant noise.
   3.   Noise from Motor Vehicles. It is unlawful for any person to operate, or
for the owner to cause or permit to be operated within the public right-of-way
in this City, any motor vehicle which emits a noise in excess of 75 decibels
measured at a distance of 25 feet.
      A.   Measurement. The sound level shall be measured on a sound level
meter of standard design and quality operated on the “A” slow response
weighting scale.
      B.   This section applies to a total noise from a motor vehicle and shall
not be construed as limiting or precluding the enforcement of any other
provisions of this section.
      C.   Exceptions. The requirements, prohibitions, and terms of this
section shall not apply to:
         (1)   Emergency work or any authorized emergency vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
         (2)   Activities of a temporary duration, permitted by law, and for
which a license or permit therefore has been granted by the City, including but
not limited to parades;
         (3)   Reasonable or ordinary noises associated with athletic contest
or lawful public meetings, parades, or celebrations;
         (4)   Noises from construction, landscaping, lawn care, and
maintenance between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         (5)   Construction work;
         (6)   All other authorized activities occurring on government
property.
      D.   Right to Additional Test. Where a motor vehicle is deemed to be in
violation of this section, the owner thereof may transport it to a central
testing location, the location to be determined by the Police Chief, where such
vehicle may be tested under normal operating conditions for further evaluation
If the vehicle is reevaluated and found not to be in violation of the decibel
standards as outlined, no further proceedings shall be instituted, and any
citation issued shall be dismissed. All costs of retesting shall be borne by
the owner of the vehicle being tested.
   4.   Vibrations. Any vibration that can be felt beyond the property line in
any zoning district, whether manufacturing, business, commercial, or
residential, is in violation of this section, and no instrument is needed to
make a determination of the vibration.
(Section 40.05 – Ord. 283 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  41.10 Barbed Wire and
                                                         Electric Fences
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.11 Discharging
Safety Entities                                          Weapons
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.14 Fireworks
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.15 Drug
                                                         Paraphernalia
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.16 Failure to
Device                                                   Assist
41.08 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators              41.17 Kratom
41.09 Antenna and Radio Wires                             
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any
corrosive, caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person
delivers such into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes
reasonable precautions that the substance will not be taken by children or
animals from the place where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
   No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
   1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department,
a law enforcement authority, or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
   2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or
she is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
   3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
   No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer
or employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to
be a peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A
of the Code of Iowa, medical examiner, or firefighter, whether paid or
volunteer, or a person performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303
[4] of the Code of Iowa, in the performance of any act that is within the scope
of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care
provider, medical examiner, or firefighter, or person performing bailiff
duties, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution by any
authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any court. The
terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do not include verbal
harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by a present ability and
apparent intention to execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
   No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
   No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
   It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
   2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind
or to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns,
or other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
   It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building,
including but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway,
doorway, or window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14   FIREWORKS.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
   1.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
      A.   “Consumer fireworks” means the following fireworks, as described in
Chapter 3 of the American Pyrotechnics Association (“APA”) Standard 87-1:
         (1)   First-class consumer fireworks:
            a.   Aerial shell kits and reloadable tubes;
            b.   Chasers;
            c.   Helicopters and aerial spinners;
            d.   Firecrackers;
            e.   Mine and shell devices;
            f.   Missile-type rockets;
            g.   Roman candles;
            h.   Sky rockets and bottle rockets;
            i.   Multiple tube devices under this paragraph which are
manufactured in accordance with APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5.
         (2)   Second-class consumer fireworks:
            a.   Cone fountains;
            b.   Cylindrical fountains;
            c.   Flitter sparklers;
            d.   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including multiple
tube ground and hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured in accordance
with APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5;
            e.   Ground spinners;
            f.   Illuminating torches;
            g.   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2;
            h.   Wheels;
            i.   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2.
      B.   “Display fireworks” includes any explosive composition, or
combination of explosive substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration,
or detonation, and includes fireworks containing any explosive or flammable
compound, or other device containing any explosive substance. “Display
fireworks” does not include novelties or consumer fireworks enumerated in
Chapter 3 of the APA Standard 87-1.
      C.   “Novelties” includes all novelties enumerated in Chapter 3 of the
APA Standard 87-1, and that comply with the labeling regulations promulgated by
the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission.
   2.   Display Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode any
display fireworks; provided, the City Council may, upon application in writing,
grant a permit for the display of display fireworks by municipalities, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of individuals
approved by the City when the display fireworks will be handled by a competent
operator, but no such permit shall be required for the display of display
fireworks at the Iowa State Fairgrounds by the Iowa State Fair Board, at
incorporated county fairs, or at district fairs receiving State aid.. No permit
shall be granted hereunder unless the operator or sponsoring organization has
filed with the City evidence of insurance in the following amounts:
      A.   Personal Injury:   $250,000.00 per person
      B.   Property Damage:   $50,000.00
      C.   Total Exposure:   $1,000,000.00
   3.   Consumer Fireworks.
      A.   The Council will designate yearly, by resolution, the dates and
times the use or explosion of consumer fireworks are permitted.
      B.   It is unlawful for any person to use consumer fireworks on real
property other than that person’s real property or on the real property of a
person who has consented to the use of consumer fireworks on that property.
   4.   Novelties. This section does not apply to novelties.
41.15   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 124.414)
   1.   As used in this section “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment,
products or materials of any kind used or attempted to be used in combination
with a controlled substance, except those items used in combination with the
lawful use of a controlled substance, to knowingly or intentionally and
primarily do any of the following:
      A.   Manufacture a controlled substance.
      B.   Inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
      C.   Test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled
substance.
      D.   Enhance the effect of a controlled substance.
   Drug paraphernalia does not include hypodermic needles or syringes if
manufactured, delivered, sold, or possessed for a lawful purpose.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally
manufacture, deliver, sell, or possess drug paraphernalia.
41.16   FAILURE TO ASSIST.
   A person who reasonably believes another person is suffering from a risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death shall, if the person is able,
attempt to contact local law enforcement or local emergency response
authorities, if doing so does not place the person or other person at risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death. No person shall without
lawful cause violate the provisions of this section. A person shall not be
required to contact local law enforcement or emergency response authorities if
the person knows or reasonably believes that the other person is not in need of
help or assistance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.12)
41.17   KRATOM.
   1.   Definitions. As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply:
      A.   Distribute: to furnish, give away, exchange, transfer, deliver or
supply, whether or not for monetary gain or other consideration.
      B.   Kratom product: any part of the plant Mitragyna speciosa, whether
growing or not, or any food product, food ingredient, dietary ingredient,
dietary supplement, or beverage that contains any part of the plant Mitragyna
speciosa or any extract, synthetic alkaloid, or synthetically derived compound
of such plant or its leaf including, but not limited to, any powder, capsule,
pill, beverage, or other edible product.
      C.   Sell or sale: to furnish, exchange, transfer, deliver, or supply for
monetary gain or other consideration.
   2.   Sale or Distribution of Kratom Prohibited.
      A.   It is unlawful to sell, advertise for sale, offer for sale, or
distribute, directly or indirectly, any kratom product, or item labeled as a
kratom product, in the City.
   3.   Penalties. Any violation of this chapter shall be considered a simple
misdemeanor or a municipal infraction punishable by a civil penalty of seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a first offense and one thousand dollars
($1,000) for second and subsequent offenses.
(Section 41.17 – Ord. 304 – Jul. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Other Public Property Offenses
42.04 Unauthorized Entry                 
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
   1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
   2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
      A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance,
vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or
privately owned.
      B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of
the Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of
the Code of Iowa.
      C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
      D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person
owning, leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this
State.
      E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property
owned, leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
      F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
         (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
         (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
         (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect
of unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
         (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing
therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein
anything animate or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
         (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
         (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
   3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
      A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
      B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
   It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down,
or destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement, or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
   No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06   THEFT.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
   The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
   1.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
      A.   Section
105.07 – Littering Prohibited
   2.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
      A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
      B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
      C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
      D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
      E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
      F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
      G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
   3.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
      A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
      B.   Section
136.14 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
      C.   Section
136.14 – Defacing
      D.   Section
136.15 – Debris on Sidewalks
      E.   Section
136.17 – Merchandise Display
      F.   Section
136.18 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE. As used in this section, “legal age” means 21
years of age or more.  
   1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a retail alcohol licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[3])
   2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from
any retail alcohol licensee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of
Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine
to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using
devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
      D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a
public or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
   2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer upon
the public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic
liquor in any public place, except premises covered by a retail alcohol
license. A person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer
on public school property or while attending any public or private school-
related function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
   3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
   4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that
the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense.
If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample
of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   [See Section
62.01(50) and (51) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04   SOCIAL HOST.
   A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
eighteen, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Curfew                 46.03 Contributing to Delinquency
46.02 Cigarettes and Tobacco
 
46.01   CURFEW.
   The Council has determined that a curfew for minors is necessary to promote
the public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the City and
specifically to reinforce the primary authority and responsibility of adults
responsible for minors; to protect the public from the illegal acts of minors
committed after the curfew hour; and to protect minors from improper influences
and criminal activity that prevail in public places after the curfew hour.
   1.   Definitions. For use in this section, the following terms are defined:
      A.   “Emergency errand” means, but is not limited to, an errand relating
to a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any other situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious illness, bodily injury, or loss
of life.
      B.   “Knowingly” means knowledge that a responsible adult should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that
responsible adult’s custody. It is intended to continue to hold the neglectful
or careless adult responsible for a minor to a reasonable standard of adult
responsibility through an objective test. It is therefore no defense that an
adult responsible for a minor was completely indifferent to the activities or
conduct or whereabouts of the minor.
      C.   “Minor” means any unemancipated person under the age of 18 years.
      D.   “Nonsecured custody” means custody in an unlocked multipurpose area,
such as a lobby, office or interrogation room that is not designed, set aside,
or used as a secure detention area, and the person arrested is not physically
secured during the period of custody in the area; the person is physically
accompanied by a law enforcement officer or a person employed by the facility
where the person arrested is being held; and the use of the area is limited to
providing nonsecured custody only while awaiting transfer to an appropriate
juvenile facility or to court, for contacting of and release to the person’s
parents or other responsible adult or for other administrative purposes; but
not for longer than six hours without the oral or written order of a judge or
magistrate authorizing the detention. A judge shall not extend the period of
time in excess of six hours beyond the initial six-hour period.
      E.   “Public place” includes stores, parking lots, parks, playgrounds,
streets, alleys, and sidewalks dedicated to public use and also includes such
parts of buildings and other premises, whether publicly or privately owned,
that are used by the general public or to which the general public is invited
commercially for a fee or otherwise; or in or on which the general public is
permitted without specific invitation; or to which the general public has
access. For purposes of this section, a vehicle or other conveyance is
considered to be a public place when in the areas defined above.
      F.   “Responsible adult” means a parent, guardian or other adult
specifically authorized by law or authorized by a parent or guardian to have
custody or control of a minor.
   2.   Curfew Established. It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain upon
any of the alleys, streets or public places or to be in places of business and
amusement in the City between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the
following day on days commencing on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday and between the hours of midnight and 5:00 a.m. on Friday and
Saturday.
   3.   Exceptions. The following are exceptions to the curfew:
      A.   The minor is accompanied by a responsible adult.
      B.   The minor is on the sidewalk or property where the minor resides or
on either side of the place where the minor resides and the adult responsible
for the minor has given permission for the minor to be there.
      C.   The minor is present at or is traveling between home and one of the
following:
         (1)   Minor’s place of employment in a business, trade or occupation
in which the minor is permitted by law to be engaged or, if traveling, within
one hour after the end or before the beginning of work;
         (2)   Minor’s place of religious activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the religious activity;
         (3)   Governmental or political activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the activity;
         (4)   School activity or, if traveling, within one hour after the end
or before the beginning of the activity;
         (5)   Assembly such as a march, protest, demonstration, sit-in or
meeting of an association for the advancement of economic, political, religious
or cultural matters, or for any other activity protected by the First Amendment
of the U.S. Constitution guarantees of free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech, freedom of assembly or, if traveling, within one hour after the end or
before the beginning of the activity.
      D.   The minor is on an emergency errand for a responsible adult;
      E.   The minor is engaged in interstate travel through the City
beginning, ending or passing through the City when such travel is by direct
route.
   4.   Responsibility of Adults. It is unlawful for any responsible adult
knowingly to permit or to allow a minor to be in any public place in the City
within the time periods prohibited by this section unless the minor’s presence
falls within one of the above exceptions.
   5.   Enforcement Procedures.
      A.   Determination of Age. In determining the age of the juvenile and in
the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate or driver’s
license, a law enforcement officer on the street shall, in the first instance,
use his or her best judgment in determining age.
      B.   Grounds for Arrest; Conditions of Custody. Grounds for arrest are
that the person refuses to sign the citation without qualification; persists in
violating the ordinance; refuses to provide proper identification or to
identify himself or herself; or constitutes an immediate threat to the person’s
own safety or to the safety of the public. A law enforcement officer who
arrests a minor for a curfew violation may keep the minor in custody either in
a shelter care facility or in any nonsecured setting. The officer shall not
place bodily restraints, such as handcuffs, on the minor unless the minor
physically resists or threatens physical violence when being taken into
custody. A minor shall not be placed in detention following a curfew violation.
      C.   Notification of Responsible Adult. After a minor is taken into
custody, the law enforcement officer shall notify the adult responsible for the
minor as soon as possible. The minor shall be released to the adult responsible
for the minor upon the promise of such person to produce the child in court at
such time as the court may direct.
      D.   Minor Without Adult Supervision. If a law enforcement officer
determines that a minor does not have adult supervision because the law
enforcement officer cannot locate the minor’s parent, guardian or other person
legally responsible for the care of the minor, within a reasonable time, the
law enforcement officer shall attempt to place the minor with an adult relative
of the minor, an adult person who cares for the child or another adult person
who is known to the child.
   6.   Penalties.
      A.   Responsible Adult’s First Violation. In the case of a first
violation by a minor, the law enforcement officer shall, by certified mail,
send to the adult responsible for the minor, written notice of the violation
with a warning that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of
the curfew ordinance against both the responsible adult and minor, with
applicable penalties.
      B.   Responsible Adult’s Second Violation. Any responsible adult as
defined in this section who, following receipt of a warning, knowingly allows
the minor to violate any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
municipal infraction.
      C.   Minor’s First Violation. In the case of a first violation by a
minor, the law enforcement officer shall give the minor a written warning,
which states that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of
the curfew ordinance against the responsible adult and the minor, with
applicable penalties, or, at the law enforcement officer’s discretion, may
issue the minor a citation for a first violation.
      D.   Minor’s Second Violation. For the minor’s second and subsequent
violations of any of the provisions of this section, the minor is guilty of a
municipal infraction.
46.02   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
   It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.03   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
   It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age
to commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose                47.04 Littering
47.02 Use of Drives Required 47.05 Parks Closed
47.03 Fires                  47.06 Camping
 
47.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park
facilities by the general public by establishing rules and regulations
governing the use of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02   USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any car, cycle, or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the City.
47.03   FIRES.
   No fire shall be built, except in a place designated for such purpose, and
such fire shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be
immediately used by some other party.
47.04   LITTERING.
   No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter, or
foreign substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that
purpose.
47.05   PARKS CLOSED.
   No person, except those camping in designated areas, shall enter or remain
within any park after 11:00 p.m.
47.06   CAMPING.
   No person shall camp in any portion of a park except in portions prescribed
or designated by the Council, and the City may refuse camping privileges or
rescind any and all camping privileges for cause.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Other Conditions       50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited    
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
   Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
   1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without
legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water.
   4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
   6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard, or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof. (See also Section
62.06) 
   7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also
Chapter 51) 
   8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash. The
City may provide the necessary rules for inspection, regulation, and control.
   9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other
vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
   10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
   11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within
1,000 feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or
landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-
off and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or
enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, or breaches of the peace are carried
on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
   13.   The causing, permitting, or allowing of any refuse, solid waste,
garbage, noxious substances, hazardous wastes, junk, or salvage materials to be
deposited, collected, or to remain in any place, whether public or private. The
term “noxious substances,” shall include, but not be limited to, substances,
solids, or fluids which are offensive, detrimental to health, hurtful, or
dangerous, including any dead animal or portion thereof, together with human or
animal excrement. In addition to any action taken under this chapter, hazardous
substances shall be dealt with in strict compliance to
Chapter 36 of this Code of Ordinances.
   14.   The causing, preventing, or allowing of any refuse, solid waste,
garbage, noxious substances, or hazardous wastes, junk, salvage material, or
other offensive substances to be thrown, left, or deposited in or upon any
street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, park, public square, lot (whether vacant or
occupied), or upon any pond or pool of water.
   15.   Creating, maintaining, causing, or allowing to exist any stagnant
water standing on any property, including any container or material kept in
such a condition that water can accumulate and stagnate therein.
   16.   Creating, maintaining, causing, or allowing to exist any ditch, drain,
or water course which is now, or hereafter may be, constructed so as to prevent
or unduly interfere with the surface and overflow water drainage from adjacent
lands, or any stormwater detention basin not properly maintained, as determined
by the City Engineer.
   17.   Facilities for the storage or processing of sewage, such as septic
tanks, cesspools, and drain fields, which have failed or do not function
properly, or which are overflowing, leaking, or emanating odors; or septic
tanks, cisterns, and cesspools which are abandoned or no longer in use (unless
properly emptied and filled with clean fill); or any cesspool or septic tank
which does not comply with the County Department of Health regulations.
   18.   Any gathering of persons or vehicles upon a public street or sidewalk,
or any use of property abutting a public street or sidewalk, which obstructs
pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other lawful use of streets or sidewalks,
except as permitted by permit or ordinance.
   19.   Unoccupied buildings or unoccupied portions of buildings which are
unsecured or abandoned.
   20.   The depositing or allowing the depositing of any mud, dirt, gravel, or
other debris on any public street, alley, sidewalk, or other public property.
   21.   Creating, maintaining, causing, or allowing to exist conditions which
are conducive to the harborage or breeding of vermin; or allowing to exist
infestations of vermin, such as rats, mice, skunks, snakes, bats, starlings,
pigeons, wasps, cockroaches, or flies.
   22.   The following items stored in outdoor areas or in partially enclosed
sheds, lean-tos, or other structures not totally enclosed by structural walls,
a roof, and properly functioning doors, shall be considered a nuisance:
      A.   Building materials not part of an active building project authorized
by a current City building permit.
      B.   Non-registered or unlicensed vehicles or auto parts.
      C.   Miscellaneous steel, plastic, rubber, or metal parts.
      D.   Cut firewood in the front lawn of any residence (for any cut
firewood to not be considered a nuisance, it must be neatly stacked and placed
along the side or in the back yard of any residence and not in any location so
as to obstruct any view either from the house, from the street, or to obstruct
any access to a driveway for emergency vehicles.
   23.   Any attractive nuisance dangerous to children in the form of abandoned
vehicles, abandoned or broken equipment (including abandoned refrigerators),
hazardous pools, ponds, excavations, materials (including building material),
debris, or neglected machinery.
   24.   Real property maintained in such condition as it becomes so defective,
unsightly, or in such condition of deterioration or disrepair that the same
causes substantial depreciation of the property values of the surrounding
properties or is materially detrimental to properties and improvements.
   25.   Any wall, fence, or hedge in such condition as to constitute a hazard
to persons or property or to cause depreciation in the value of any adjacent or
nearby property.
   26.   Any discarded or unused material on real property that is not
consistent with the condition and visual appearance of surrounding adjacent
real properties, including dirt and gravel piles, rock piles, incomplete
landscaping projects, eroded soil areas, pits, holes, and excavations.
   27.   The causing of the accumulation of building debris and/or construction
materials, tools, equipment, or machinery on any property within the City
limits of the City after the expiration of a building permit as outlined in
this Code of Ordinances, the occasioning of which becomes injurious and
dangerous to the health, comfort, or property of individuals or the public.
   28.   Creating, maintaining, causing, or allowing to exist for a continuous
period of more than 30 days, any manmade excavation, hole, or other depression
in the ground in or on any lot or parcel of land in the City of a depth of more
than three feet below the surrounding grade, other than as part of the active
construction of a building or other structure on the lot which will ultimately
close in and completely cover such excavation, hole, or depression. Upon a
finding by the court that the owner of the lot or parcel of land has violated
the provisions of this subsection, the lot owner shall be required to fill in
any such excavation, hole, or depression and grade the same to a topographic
elevation equal to or level with the surrounding adjacent grade, and seed the
site with grass or similar vegetative ground cover, and take reasonable
measures to ensure the proper germination of the planted vegetation.
   29.   On properties being used by an allowable commercial use, any items
stored on the property that are not normally utilized in the daily operation of
the commercial use must be stored in structures totally hidden from view or
behind privacy fence totally hidden from view.
   30.   All real property defaced by graffiti vandalism which is visible to
the public view.
   31.   Any hazardous thing or condition on property which may contribute to
injury of any person present on the property, including, but not limited to,
open holes, open foundations, open wells, or dangerous trees or limbs.
   32.   Anything or condition on property creating a fire hazard, as
determined by the Fire Chief (or designee) of Waterloo Fire and Rescue, or any
firefighting department that the City contracts with in the future.
   33.   Anything or condition on property creating an imminent threat to human
health or in violation of any health or sanitation law.
   34.   Building construction sites maintained in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
50.03   OTHER CONDITIONS.
   The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
   1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
   2.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
   3.   Dangerous Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
   4.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
   5.   Construction and Repair of Buildings (See
Chapter 155)
50.04   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance,
public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.07.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall
contain: † 4   
      A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
      B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
      C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
      D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the
property owner.
   2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or
sent by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Council
at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council shall be
conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
   4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred.
The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County
Treasurer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner
as, general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the
assessment to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same
manner and with the same interest rates provided for assessments against
benefited property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
   8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
4 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance  
 
51.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery,
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery, or appliances; iron,
steel, or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass,
tinware, plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly
stacked firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
The following are also considered junk:
      A.   Junk, including but not limited to tires, packing boxes, wooden
pallets, tree limbs, brush piles, and discarded lumber.
      B.   Broken or unused furniture and appliances, including any upholstered
or finished furniture intended for indoor usage such as couches, beds,
mattresses, desks, chairs, shelving, or wooden tables.
      C.   Other broken or unused household furnishings or equipment including
carpeting, appliances, and other typical household items typically intended for
indoor usage.
      D.   Plastic tarps, trash bags containing leaves, debris, garbage or
other items, trash and garbage not properly contained within a trash disposal
container, or any other discarded items not normally required in the day-to-day
use of the exterior area of the property.
   2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the
County Treasurer or unlicensed and having any of the following characteristics:
      A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield,
window, headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
      B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel, or trunk lid.
      C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
      D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
      E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
      F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of
its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to
the public health and safety.
   Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
   3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on
any private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04   EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within:
   1.   Structure. A garage or other enclosed structure; or
   2.   Salvage Yard. An auto salvage yard or junk yard lawfully operated
within the City.
51.05   NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section 51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement
procedures as outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 53
MOWING OF PROPERTIES
 
53.01 Mowing of Properties 53.04 Notice
53.02 Exceptions           53.05 Penalty
53.03 Violation
 
53.01   MOWING OF PROPERTIES.
   Any property within the City, whether vacated or occupied, including
residential, commercial, or industrial zoned districts, is required to be mowed
any time the vegetation (grass, weeds, non-purposely planted trees or shrubs)
reaches a height of more than eight inches during the months of May, June,
July, August, September, and October of each year. Vegetation reaching a height
of eight inches shall be considered a health, safety, or fire hazard. The
property owner and/or occupant are also jointly and severally responsible for
cutting vegetation in the abutting space between the property line lot line,
and the curb line or edge of the traveled portion of the street right-of-way,
and one-half of any alleyways abutting the property.
53.02   EXCEPTIONS.
   Properties used for agricultural purposes and any State- or railroad-owned
property are excepted from the requirements of this chapter; however, any
agriculturally used property that is adjacent to a City right-of-way shall not
be excepted and shall adhere to this eight-inch height restriction.
53.03   VIOLATION.
   Violation of this chapter will be determined by visual observation and
measurement. Vegetation exceeding eight inches in height shall constitute a
violation of this chapter. When a violation has occurred, the City will send
written notice by certified mail to the property owner and/or occupant
informing said owner and/or occupant of the violation and the action that is to
be taken.
53.04   NOTICE.
   The notice shall set forth that the property owner has seven days from the
date of the notice to comply with this chapter by correcting the violation. The
notice shall set forth the address of the property in question and shall
instruct the property owner that the notice constitutes notice for the balance
of the mowing season and that further action will be taken by the City to
remedy the problem if it occurs again in the same property without additional
written notice being given.
53.05   PENALTY.
   Any property which is not mowed to the length required during the months
above may be mowed by the City or its agent. All associated costs for such
mowing and notification, plus a surcharge of $100.00, will be charged to the
property owner. Any billings for mowing done by the City or their agents are to
be sent by regular mail and are payable within 30 days of the billing date. If
the fees are not paid within 30 days, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the
County Treasurer, and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same
manner as, general property taxes.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Administration and Enforcement 55.10 General Prohibitions and Duties
55.02 Definitions                    55.11 Fees
55.03 Animal Neglect                 55.12 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.04 Livestock Neglect              55.13 Keeping of Vicious Animals
                                     Prohibited
55.05 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs   55.14 Keeping of Dangerous Dogs
55.06 Trapping, Poisoning, and       55.15 Rabies Control
Destruction of Animals
55.07 At Large Prohibited            55.16 Number of Pets Kept
55.08 Impoundment                    55.17 Tampering With a Rabies Vaccination
                                     Tag
55.09 Injured Animals at Large       55.18 Tampering With an Electronic
                                     Handling Device
 
55.01   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Mayor and peace officer are responsible for the administration of the
provisions of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to animal
control. All officers whose duty it is to enforce the provisions of these
chapters shall be officers sworn by the Mayor or peace officer. The peace
officer, Animal Control Officer, or any member of the Police Department shall
be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of these chapters. Those
persons charged with enforcing the provisions of these chapters shall have the
authority to seize and impound animals pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, and shall have the authority of peace officers, including the
authority to issue misdemeanor citations for violation of these animal control
chapters. It is the duty of those persons charged with enforcing the provisions
of these chapters to impound any animals found running at large in violation of
the terms of this Code of Ordinances, and it is the duty of the Police
Department to investigate all animal bites and file reports with the County
Board of Health and to impound and quarantine the biting animal as provided in
this chapter. Reference to the Animal Control Officer in these chapters means
the peace officer and any officer charged with the enforcement of these
chapters.
55.02   DEFINITIONS.  
   The following terms are defined for use in Chapters 55 through 57 of this
Code of Ordinances.
   1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium
including but not limited to print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag, or articulation.
   2.   “Animal” means every wild, tame, or domestic member of the animal
kingdom other than the genus and species Homo Sapiens.
   3.   “Animal shelter” means the premises or building which the Council may,
from time to time, designate as the location for the impoundment of animals.
   4.   “At heel” means, with reference to a dog, within three feet of a person
and subject to that person’s strict obedience command.
   5.   “At large,” “running at large,” or “being at large” refers to any
licensed or unlicensed animal found off the premises of its owner, whether on
or off public or private property, and either: (i) not on a leash or at heel
beside a person and obedient to that person’s command; (ii) not restrained
within a vehicle so as to prevent its leaving the vehicle; or (iii) not housed
in a veterinary hospital or kennel.
   6.   “Bite” means any puncture, laceration, abrasion, scratch, or any other
break in the skin of a human, caused by an animal.
   7.   “Board of Health” means the Black Hawk County Board of Health.
   8.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
      A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
      B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
      C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
      D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
   9.   “Cat” means any member of the Felis Domestica species, male or female,
altered or unaltered.
   10.   “Dangerous dog” means:
      A.   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury to or to otherwise endanger the safety of humans or
other domestic animals; or
      B.   Any dog known by the owner to be a pit bull terrier, which is herein
defined as any American pit bull terrier, or Staffordshire bull terrier, or
American Staffordshire terrier breed of dog, or any mixed breed of dog which
contains as an element of its breeding the breed of American pit bull terrier,
or Staffordshire bull terrier, or American Staffordshire terrier, as to be
identifiable as partially of the breed of American pit bull terrier,
Staffordshire bull terrier, or American Staffordshire terrier.
   11.   “Dart” means the process whereby a drug of a sedative nature is
delivered to and injected into an animal by means of a projectile shot from a
rifle, gun, or blowgun, or from a bow or crossbow, for the purpose of subduing
or rendering unconscious an animal for capture.
   12.   “Department of Public Health,” “Public Health Department,” or “Health
Department” means the Black Hawk County Department of Health.
   13.   “Director of Public Health” or “Health Officer” means the director and
employees of the Black Hawk County Health Department.
   14.   “Dog” means both male and female animals of the canine species,
whether neutered or not.
   15.   “Emergency” means occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual
or imminent physical trauma or property damage or which demands immediate
action to protect the public health, safety, or welfare, or the safety or
welfare of an animal.
   16.   “Fair” means any of the following:
      A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
      C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
   17.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in
Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
   18.   “Guard dog” means any dog trained or used to protect persons or
property by attacking or threatening to attack any person found within the area
patrolled by the dog and that is either securely enclosed within that area at
all times or under the continuous control of a trained handler.
   19.   “Kennel” means a boarding kennel or commercial kennel, as defined in
Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
   20.   “Kennel dogs” means dogs which are kept solely for the bona fide
purpose of sale and which are kept under constant restraint in a kennel
pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
   21.   “Killer trap” means a type of trap designed to apprehend and
instantaneously kill an animal, but does not include jaw, leg-hold, or snare-
type traps, regardless if set under water.
   22.   “Live trap” means a process whereby an animal is apprehended alive
uninjured by means of a cage-type device, the door or entrance to which closes
after the animal enters, preventing escape. Jaw, leg-hold, or snare-type traps,
designed to pinch trap an animal’s head or extremities, are not considered live
traps.
   23.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas and emus; farm deer as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa; or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
   24.   “Noise disturbance” means any sound which: (i) endangers or injures
the safety or health of humans or animals; or (ii) annoys or disturbs a
reasonable person of normal sensitivities; or (iii) endangers or injures
personal or real property.
   25.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering or harboring an
animal.
   26.   “Owner or person in lawful possession and control of any premises”
means the fee title owner of any property or premises, or the person in actual
possession or control of such premises under a lease or real estate contract.
   27.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
   28.   “Seeing eye dog” or “guide dog” means any dog which is owned by a
person who is legally declared blind or partially sighted and which has been
properly trained at a special school to guide in going from place to place.
   29.   “Vicious animal” means any animal which has attacked or bitten any
person without provocation, or which has attacked or bitten any domestic animal
or fowl on two or more occasions within a 12-month period; or which has been
declared vicious by the Animal Control Officer or the Peace officer; or which
has been found to possess such propensity by the Council.
55.03   ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
      A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
      B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably
sufficient to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the
animal’s health or life is endangered.  Access to snow or ice does not satisfy
this requirement.
      C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
      D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate
protection from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age,
species, and physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a
state of good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered. The shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun
and have adequate bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and
dampness. A shelter may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
      E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent
adverse health effects or suffering.
      F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
         (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s
welfare as described in this section.
         (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal
to suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
   2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
         (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part
of the commercial establishment’s operation.
         (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as
described in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care
requirements provided in Section 162.10A[1] of the Code of Iowa, including any
applicable rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
applying to: (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section
162.10A[2a] or [2b] of the Code of Iowa; or (ii) a permittee operating pursuant
to Section 162.10A[2c] of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or
renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa, and performs functions
within the scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the
research facility.
55.04   LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
   It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place
to fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means which causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.05   ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
   1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept
ownership and custody of the cat or dog.
   2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or that has been
issued or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and
Land Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
55.06   TRAPPING, POISONING, AND DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS.
   1.   It is unlawful for any person to trap, poison, or destroy any animal,
except in the following circumstances:
      A.   Trapping, poisoning, or destroying, in a permissible manner, any
mole or rodent (rat, mouse, or gopher) found upon the premises, with the
exception of tree squirrels;
      B.   Trapping, poisoning, or destroying, in a permissible manner, pigeons
which congregate on such premises in such a manner as to create a hazard to
public health or cause damage to property;
      C.   Trapping or destroying, in a permissible manner, any dangerous
animal found at large upon the premises and constituting an immediate threat to
the safety or health of any person;
      D.   Trapping, poisoning, or destroying, in a permissible manner, any
animal which has entered the occupied portion of any building or which has
entered or nested in the attic, eaves, drainage or plumbing vent piping of any
building, thereby creating a nuisance which cannot otherwise be abated, except
that animals regulated pursuant to Chapter 481A and 481B of the Code of Iowa
may not be trapped, poisoned or destroyed unless permission has first been
obtained from the Department of Natural Resources;
      E.   The utilization of live traps to apprehend animals on any premises,
regardless of the zone, if such animals constitute a nuisance due to the
destruction of property, and if the method and location of such trapping are
with the concurrence of and under the direction of the State Department of
Natural Resources or Department of Health. If such trapping is done with the
concurrence of and under the direction of the Department of Natural Resources,
killer traps may be utilized.
   2.   In the event that the Board of Health determines that game animal or
fur-bearing animal populations pose a significant threat to public health,
safety, or property anywhere within the City, the Board may authorize trapping
by licensed pest control operators or by commercial trappers who do not own the
properties to be trapped, provided that the written permission of such property
owner is first obtained, utilizing leg-hold traps, live traps, or killer traps
in accordance with the provisions of Chapters 481A and 481B of the Code of
Iowa. It is the duty of every person maintaining traps pursuant to this chapter
to label said traps plainly with a metal tag displaying the owner’s name and
address and to inspect said traps at least once every 24 hours. Failure to do
so shall constitute a misdemeanor. All animals trapped pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall be promptly disposed of or destroyed in a
humane manner. Traps which are placed or used in violation of this provision
may be seized by the Animal Control Officer. The Animal Control Officer may
allow any person 18 years of age or older to trap game animals and/or fur-
bearing animals in accordance with Chapter 481A and 481B of the Code of Iowa,
and under the same terms and conditions as set forth above, upon City-owned
property, if the Animal Control Officer determines that such trapping is
necessary either to prevent animal over-population of those premises, or to
promote the public health, welfare, and safety, or to abate a nuisance caused
by such animal population.
   3.   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the operation of a pest control
business within the City by licensed pest control technicians, provided that
the pest control methods used meet with the approval of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency. A licensed pest control technician may perform
any of the acts set forth in Paragraphs A through E of Subsection 1 of this
section, if done in accordance with the requirements therein set forth and if
authorized to do so by the owner or person in possession and control of the
premises.
   4.   Nothing herein shall limit the authority of the Animal Control Officer
to apprehend by any means animals found at large in violation of this chapter,
or to apprehend by any means or destroy any animal found at large which
constitutes an immediate threat to public health, welfare, or safety.
   5.   Nothing herein shall limit the authority of the Department of Natural
Resources to trap or allow trapping upon property owned by the State or under
the exclusive jurisdiction and control of the Department of Natural Resources.
55.07   AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   1.   The owner of an animal shall at all times restrain such animal to
prevent it from being or running at large. An animal found at large by the
Animal Control Officer shall be seized and impounded. If the Animal Control
Officer is unable to apprehend the animal, or if the owner refuses to
relinquish the same, the Animal Control Officer shall serve the owner a
misdemeanor citation.
   2.   If a cat does not bear a current rabies vaccination tag and license
tag, the owner of such cat shall at all times restrain such animal to prevent
it from being or running at large. A cat not bearing current rabies vaccination
tag and license tag found at large by the Animal Control Officer may, in the
discretion of the Animal Control Officer, be seized and impounded. If the
Animal Control Officer is unable to apprehend such cat or if the owner of the
cat refuses to relinquish the same, the Animal Control Officer may serve the
owner a misdemeanor citation.
   3.   It is lawful for any person who finds any animal at large to seize and
hold the animal. Any person so seizing and holding an animal may confine it
within a fenced yard, house, garage, or other structure owned by said person,
or by physically restraining said animal on a harness, collar, or leash. The
person seizing and holding the animal shall be responsible for the humane
treatment of the animal while it is under that person’s custody and shall
notify the Animal Control Officer within 48 hours that the animal is in said
person’s custody. The provisions of this chapter shall not infringe upon any
right or duty created by Section 351.26 or Section 351.27 of the Code of Iowa.
55.08   IMPOUNDMENT.
   1.   Animals which are impounded shall be placed in the City animal shelter,
licensed kennel, or other suitable place as directed by the Animal Control
Officer. The Animal Control Officer shall register every impounded animal
noting the species, breed, color, and sex of such animal, and, if a dog or cat,
whether or not it is wearing a license tag.
   2.   When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall
be provided to the owner within two days after impoundment, if the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal. Impounded animals may be recovered by
the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if an unlicensed and/or
unvaccinated cat or dog, by having it immediately licensed and/or vaccinated.
If the owner fails to redeem the animal within seven days from the date that
the notice is mailed, or if the owner cannot be located within seven days, the
animal shall be disposed of in accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37, 351.41)
   3.   For purposes of this section, the Animal Control Officer may give
notice to the owner either orally, by posting a notice at the owner’s
residence, or by mail.
55.09   INJURED ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   1.   In the event that an injured animal licensed pursuant to the provisions
of this Code of Ordinances is found at large, the Animal Control Officer shall
impound such animal. Upon impounding an injured animal, the Animal Control
Officer shall attempt as soon as practicable to notify the owner of the
animal’s location and condition. Upon being so notified, the owner of such
animal shall either immediately take custody of such animal or cause said
animal to be transported to a veterinarian or authorize its destruction in a
humane manner.
   2.   In the event an injured animal at large cannot be apprehended, or if it
displays vicious tendencies which would make its capture unduly hazardous, or
in the event that an animal is found at large so seriously injured as to make
its recovery improbable, or its condition deteriorates to that point, the
Animal Control Officer may immediately destroy such animal in a humane manner
in the interest of humane treatment.
   3.   In the event an animal regulated by Chapters 481A and 481B of the Code
of Iowa is found injured at large, the Animal Control Officer shall, if
practicable, consult with an officer of the Department of Natural Resources
before destroying such animal.
55.10   GENERAL PROHIBITIONS AND DUTIES.
   1.   No person shall aid or cause any animal, whether owned by such person
or not, to escape confinement or impoundment, whether such confinement or
impoundment is upon such person’s property or that of another, by opening any
gate, door or window, by making an opening in any fence, enclosure or
structure, or by unleashing such animal.
   2.   It is prohibited for any person to permit or allow an animal owned by
that person or under that person’s custody or control to defecate upon public
property, park property, public right-of-way or the property of another.
   3.   It is the duty of every person owning or having the custody or control
of an animal to clean up, remove and dispose of the feces deposited by such
animal upon public property, park property, public right-of-way, or the
property of another.
   4.   It is the duty of every person owning or having the custody or control
of an animal to physically restrain the animal within an enclosure or upon a
leash when such animal is left unattended outside or is not at heel. The animal
must be restrained so as to prevent the animal from leaving the premises of its
owner or from coming in contact with the public right-of-way or the property of
another.
   5.   No person owning or having an animal under his or her control or care
and custody shall permit such animal to create a noise disturbance or to bark
or make any loud or unusual noises during times which such owner knows or
should expect that such noise will disturb one or more neighbors, or otherwise
disturb the peace. Kennels, veterinary clinics, animal hospitals, and animal
shelters located within properly zoned areas shall be eligible for a variance
from this requirement.
   6.   Regardless of the provisions of Section 55.06 above, it is unlawful for
any owner or other person to dispose of any dead animal or allow it to be
collected for disposal by any person except authorized representatives of the
City if such animal has attacked, bitten, or caused a skin abrasion on any
person, if the animal is suspected of being infected with rabies, until
permission for disposal has been given by the Animal Control Officer.
   7.   It is unlawful for any person owning, controlling or caring for any
animal to fail to keep in a clean and sanitary condition the premises and any
pen, kennel, shelter, house or the person’s dwelling or other structure where
the animal is at any time kept. At least once every 24 hours (or more often if
odors or health problems arise), such person shall pick up any and all feces so
as to prevent accumulation and same shall be properly disposed of. Feces shall
be held in watertight and fly-tight containers pending disposal and shall be
disposed of at least once weekly. Feces shall be disposed only by depositing
same in a sanitary sewer receptacle, or by depositing same in a proper
receptacle for disposal as solid wastes. The animal and place where the animal
is maintained shall also be kept free of obnoxious odors and shall be
maintained so as not to attract or permit the harborage or breeding of flies
and other insects or rodent or other vermin. All animal food and water shall be
stored and placed for the animal’s consumption in such a manner so that it will
not become food for rodents and other vermin.
   8.   It is unlawful for any owner or other person to abandon, turn loose or
leave any animal within the corporate limits of the City or so that the animal
may find its way into the corporate limits of the City, or to abandon or leave
any animal upon or in any premises unattended for a period in excess of three
days.
   9.   The combined number of adult cats and dogs is limited to six animals
per household.
55.11   FEES.
   The fees for impoundment, boarding and keeping any animal, for removing a
dead animal from any premises, for disposing of a dead animal, for humanely
destroying an animal, for taking custody of unwanted animals, for trap rental,
or for pest control shall be as provided in the prevailing schedule of fees
adopted by the Council.
55.12   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717.E)
   1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
      A.   A prize for participating in a game.
      B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
      C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
      D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract which includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care, or disposition of the pet.
   2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
      B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.13   KEEPING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   1.   No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor a vicious animal for any
reason within the City.
   2.   The Animal Control Officer, in his or her discretion or upon receipt of
a complaint alleging that a particular animal is a vicious animal, may initiate
proceedings to declare such animal as a vicious animal. A hearing on the matter
shall be conducted by the Council. The person owning, keeping, sheltering, or
harboring the animal in question shall be given not less than 24 hours’ written
notice of the time and place of the hearing. Said notice shall set forth the
description of the animal in question and the basis for the allegation of
viciousness. The notice shall also set forth that if the animal is determined
to be vicious, the owner will be required to remove it from the City or allow
it to be destroyed. The notice shall be served upon any adult residing at the
premises where the animal is located or may be posted on those premises if no
adult is present to accept service.
   3.   If, after the hearing, the Council determines that an animal is
vicious, the Council shall order the person owning, sheltering, harboring, or
keeping the animal to remove it from the City, or to cause it to be destroyed
in a humane manner. The order shall immediately be served upon the person
against whom issued in the same manner as the notice of hearing. If the order
is not complied with within three days of its issuance, the Animal Control
Officer is authorized to seize and impound the animal. An animal so seized
shall be impounded for a period of seven days. If at the end of the impoundment
period, the person against whom the order of the Council was issued has not
petitioned the District Court for a review of said order, the Animal Control
Officer shall cause the animal to be destroyed.
   4.   Failure to comply with an order of the Council issued pursuant hereto
shall constitute a misdemeanor offense.
   5.   Any animal found at large which displays vicious tendencies may be
processed as a vicious animal pursuant to the foregoing, unless the animal is
so vicious that it cannot safely be apprehended; in which case, the Animal
Control Officer may immediately destroy it, or unless its ownership is not
ascertainable, in which case, it may be destroyed after three days’
impoundment.
   6.   Any animal which is alleged to be vicious and which is under
impoundment or quarantine shall not be released to the owner but shall continue
to be held at the expense of the owner pending the outcome of the hearing. All
costs of such impoundment or quarantine shall be paid by the owner whether or
not the animal is determined to be vicious.
   7.   The prohibition contained in this section does not apply to keeping of
guard dogs. However, guard dogs must be kept within a structure or a fenced
enclosure at all times, and any guard dog found at large may be processed as a
vicious animal pursuant to the provisions of this section. Any premises guarded
by a guard dog shall be prominently posted with a sign containing the wording
“Guard Dog,” “Vicious Dog,” or words of similar import, and the owner of such
premises shall inform the Police Department that a guard dog is on duty at the
premises. It is the owner’s responsibility to notify the Police Department
immediately when a guard dog has escaped and is running at large.
55.14   KEEPING OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   1.   The provisions of this section apply to adult dogs only, which means
any dog over the age of six months.
   2.   A dangerous dog is at large if such dog is not securely confined
indoors or confined in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure upon the
premises of the owner of such dog. Such pen or structure must have secure sides
and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides,
the sides must be embedded into the ground no less than one foot.
   3.   No person owning or harboring or having the care of a dangerous dog
shall suffer or permit such animal to go unconfined on the premises of such
person.
   4.   No person owning or harboring or having the care of a dangerous dog
shall suffer or permit such dog to go beyond the premises of such person unless
such dog is securely leashed and muzzled, except that a dangerous dog shall not
be required to be muzzled when shown in a sanctioned Kennel Club Show.
55.15   RABIES CONTROL.
   The owners of all dogs and cats four months of age or older, and which are
permanently or temporarily within the corporate limits of the City, are
required to have a vaccination against rabies for such animals. It is unlawful
for any person to keep or harbor an animal which is not vaccinated as required.
The rabies vaccination shall be administered in accordance with Chapter 351 of
the Code of Iowa. A current certificate of vaccination for rabies signed by a
licensed veterinarian administering the vaccine is required by this section.
   1.   Display of Rabies Tag and License. The owner of an animal shall at all
times cause the current rabies vaccination tag, and current license tag if a
license is required pursuant to Chapter 56 of this Code of Ordinances, to be
displayed on a collar, harness, or chain attached to the dog or cat.
   2.   Emergency Rabies Control. If the County Board of Health believes rabies
to be epidemic, or believes there is threat of epidemic within the City, it may
declare a quarantine of all or part of the City and such declaration shall be
reported to the Council and the State Department of Health. During the period
of the quarantine, any person owning or having a dog or other animal in his or
her possession in the quarantined area shall keep such animal securely enclosed
or on a leash for the duration of the quarantine period. Any animal or dog
running at large during the time of this declaration shall be seized and
impounded unless noticeably infected with rabies. All animals or dogs so
noticeably infected with rabies and which, in the opinion of the Animal Control
Officer, are displaying vicious propensities may be killed by the Animal
Control Officer without notice to the owner. Dogs or other animals impounded
during this declaration shall be disposed of as provided in this Code of
Ordinances.
   3.   Reporting of Bites, Attacks, and Diseases.
      A.   It is the duty of the owner of any dog or cat or other animal which
has bitten or attacked a person or any other person having knowledge of such
bite or attack, including physicians, nurses and veterinarians, or parent or
guardian of the bite victim, to report such act to the Police Department.
      B.   It is the duty of physicians, veterinarians, and the owner of any
animal to report to the County Health Department the existence of any animal
known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
   4.   Procedure When Person Bitten By Animal; Quarantine.
      A.   Whenever an animal bites any person, it is the duty of the Animal
Control Officer to have such animal immediately removed from the owner’s
premises and either taken to the animal shelter or a veterinary hospital for
examination and quarantine, or destroyed if the animal appears to be diseased.
If not destroyed, such animal must be placed under quarantine for a period of
10 days. It is the duty of the owner of the animal which has bitten any person
to deliver or surrender the possession of such animal to the City for
quarantine when so ordered by the Animal Control Officer. Any confinement of an
animal under quarantine shall be at the expense of the owner of such animal. If
an animal is held by a veterinarian, it may not be released until the
expiration of the 10-day quarantine period without express written permission
of the Animal Control Officer. If for any reason a veterinarian determines that
he or she may no longer continue to hold the animal, it may be surrendered only
to the City animal shelter to be held for the remainder of the 10-day
quarantine period.
      B.   If an animal which has bitten any person is suspected of having
rabies, the Animal Control Officer may destroy the animal and have the carcass
examined in lieu of quarantine. A wild or stray animal which has bitten any
person may be destroyed immediately by the Animal Control Officer.
      C.   The owner of any animal which has bitten a person may apply to the
Animal Control Officer to release the animal for the purpose of allowing
quarantine at the home of the owner for a period of 10 days. The application
may be made at any time during the quarantine period and shall be on a form
supplied by the Department of Public Health. Home quarantine shall not be
permitted unless all of the following conditions have been fully met:
         (1)   The animal must have been vaccinated against rabies at least
three weeks prior to the bite, and such vaccination must be valid for at least
one month after the bite. A certification of rabies vaccination shall be
produced by the owner of the animal. This vaccination certificate must bear the
description of the animal, the type of vaccine used, the expiration of the
vaccine and the signature of the veterinarian administering the vaccination.
The animal must also have a current City license, if required by 
Chapter 56, at the time of the bite.
         (2)   The animal was not running at large at the time of the bite.
         (3)   Prior to approval of home quarantine, the owner shall have the
animal examined by a veterinarian, licensed in the State of Iowa, who shall
certify that the animal appears to be free of rabies or any other zoonosis. If
an animal cannot be immediately examined, it shall be quarantined at the City
animal shelter until the owner can make arrangements for such examination.
         (4)   The person bitten (or if a minor, the minor’s parent or
guardian) must sign the application indicating that said person has been
advised of the risks of rabies, and that if the animal disappears during the
home quarantine, the person bitten may have to undergo anti-rabies treatment,
that said person does not object to home quarantine, and relieving the City,
the Board of Health, the Department of Public Health and its agents from
liability if the animal disappears during the quarantine period.
         (5)   The owner of the animal must demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Police Department that said owner has the proper facilities and the ability
to adequately and properly confine the animal to said person’s home or property
during the quarantine period.
         (6)   The-owner shall agree to notify immediately the Department of
Public Health of any changes in the animal’s health or disposition, to allow
representatives of the Department of Public Health or its agents to enter upon
said owner’s property and to examine the animal at any time and immediately to
take the animal to a licensed veterinarian for examination at any time when
directed by personnel of the Department of Public Health or its agents.
         (7)   At the end of the quarantine period, the owner shall have the
animal examined by a licensed veterinarian who shall certify that the animal
appears to be free of rabies or other zoonosis, and the quarantine should be
terminated.
         (8)   The owner shall pay all costs of impoundment, board, and
quarantine to the City before the animal is released and shall agree to pay all
costs of examinations by a veterinarian during the quarantine period.
         (9)   The owner shall further agree to surrender the animal
immediately at any time the Director of Public Health or designee determines
the home quarantine should be terminated, or at any time that any provisions or
conditions of the home quarantine are violated, and the animal shall be
returned to the custody of the Department of Public Health, its agents, or a
licensed veterinarian in the State of Iowa.
         (10)   The County Board of Health may establish additional rules
pertaining to home quarantine.
   5.   Report of Condition During Quarantine. It is the duty of any
veterinarian or owner of other place at which an animal is placed under
quarantine for any reason to report at once any noticeable change in the
physical condition of such animal and to report at once if such animal dies. It
is the duty of the Animal Control Officer to cause at least one examination at
the end of the quarantine period and such other examinations as may be deemed
necessary to ensure that the animal is alive and well and not apparently
infected with rabies. If deemed necessary, the Animal Control Officer may order
such examinations done by a licensed veterinarian, and the owner of the animal
shall pay all costs of such examinations.
   6.   Payment of Quarantine and Examination Costs.
      A.   The owner of any animal quarantined may redeem such animal after any
quarantine period upon the payment in full of all costs of confinement,
including reasonable costs of food and care of such animal, and medical
examination before the animal is released. If the animal is not claimed after
the 10-day quarantine period, whether the owner is known or unknown, the animal
may be disposed of pursuant to this chapter.
      B.   When an animal dies during quarantine, the owner, if known, shall be
billed for all costs of confinement to date of death and for all examinations
including post-mortem or laboratory tests for rabies.
      C.   If the owner of an animal or any other person or organization
specifically requests a post-mortem or laboratory examination of an animal for
rabies, then the person making such request shall pay all examination costs.
      D.   If the owner of an animal is unknown, the Animal Control Officer may
request a postmortem or laboratory examination of an animal for rabies at the
expense of the City. Said cost shall be passed on to the owner, if determined.
55.16   NUMBER OF PETS KEPT.
   Limitations are placed on the number of cats and dogs that can be kept under
the same premises, homestead, or residence in order to provide safety, to
prevent disturbances, and avoid sanitary and health problems within residential
areas. The total combined number of cats and dogs over the age of six months
which may be kept in any one household shall be limited to six. The young
produced by such cats and dogs may be maintained with the parent for a period
of approximately eight weeks, but in no case longer than 10 weeks.
55.17   TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
   It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag
if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies
vaccination tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.18   TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
   It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
      B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached
to an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness,
or vest.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
CHAPTER 56
DOG AND CAT LICENSE REQUIRED
 
56.01 Annual License Required 56.06 Immunization
56.02 License Fees            56.07 Duplicate Tags
56.03 Delinquency             56.08 Transfers of Licensed Dogs and Cats
56.04 License Tags            56.09 Kennel Dogs and Cats
56.05 License Records          
 
56.01   ANNUAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
   1.   Every owner of a dog or cat over the age of six months shall procure a
license from the Clerk on or before January 1 of each year.
   2.   Such license may be procured after January 1 and at any time for a dog
or cat that has come into the possession or ownership of the applicant or that
has reached the age of six months after said date.
   3.   The owner of a dog for which a license is required shall apply to the
Clerk on forms provided by the City.
   4.   The form of the application shall state the breed, sex, age, color,
markings, and name, if any, of the dog, and the address of the owner and shall
be signed by the owner. The application shall also state the date of the most
recent rabies vaccination, the type of vaccine administered, and the date the
dog shall be revaccinated.
   5.   All licenses shall expire on January 1 of the year following the date
of issuance.
56.02   LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fee shall be $3.00, or as established by resolution of
the Council.
56.03   DELINQUENCY.
   All license fees shall become delinquent on April 15 of the year in which
they are due, and a delinquent penalty of $1.00 per month shall be added to
each unpaid license on and after said date.
56.04   LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon receipt of the application and fee, the Clerk shall deliver or mail to
the owner a license that shall be in the form of a metal tag stamped with the
serial number of the license as shown on the record book of the Clerk, the year
in which it is issued, and the name of the City. The license tag shall be
securely fastened by the owner to a collar or harness that shall be worn at all
times by the dog or cat for which issued. A license issued for one dog or cat
shall not be transferable to another dog or cat. Upon the expiration of the
license, the owner shall remove said tag from the dog or cat.
56.05   LICENSE RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall keep a book to be known as the record of licenses; such
record shall show:
   1.   The serial number and date of each application for a license.
   2.   The description of the dog or cat as specified in the application,
together with the name of the owner of the dog or cat.
   3.   The date when each license tag is issued and the serial number of each
tag, the date of the most recent rabies vaccination, the type of vaccine
administered, and the date the dog or cat shall be revaccinated.
   4.   The amount of all fees paid.
   5.   Such other data as may be required by law.
56.06   IMMUNIZATION.
   Before a license is issued, the owner shall furnish a veterinarian’s
certificate showing that the dog or cat for which the license is sought has
been vaccinated against rabies, and that the vaccination does not expire within
six months from the effective date of the license. A tag showing evidence of
proper vaccination shall at all times be attached to the collar of the dog or
cat.
56.07   DUPLICATE TAGS.
   Upon the filing of an affidavit that the license tag has been lost or
destroyed, the owner may obtain another tag on the payment of $3.00 and the
Clerk shall enter in the license record the new number assigned.
56.08   TRANSFERS OF LICENSED DOGS AND CATS.
   Upon transfer of a licensed dog or cat into the City, the owner shall
surrender the original license tag to the Clerk. The Clerk shall preserve the
surrendered tag and, without a license fee, issue a new license tag.
56.09   KENNEL DOGS AND CATS.
   Dogs and cats kept in State or federally licensed kennels, which are kept or
raised solely for the bona fide purpose of sale and which are kept under
constant restraint, are not subject to the provisions of this chapter.
CHAPTER 57
LIVESTOCK
 
57.01 Keeping of Livestock in City Prohibited 57.03 Exceptions
57.02 Violation                                
 
57.01   KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK IN CITY PROHIBITED.
   No cattle, horse, mules, swine, sheep, goats, bees, or any geese, ducks,
turkeys, or other animal (hereinafter referred to as animal) shall be permitted
in any residential district in the City.
(Section 57.01 – Ord. 302 – Jul. 25 Supp.)
57.02   VIOLATION.
   Any animal found in violation of the provisions of any of the sections of
this chapter by the Sanitary Inspector, Animal Control Officer, or any peace
officer of the City, or any other person, shall be placed with the Humane
Society at the expense of the owner.
57.03   EXCEPTIONS.
   The harboring of any animal requires that the following guidelines be
followed:
   1.   All such species must be restrained upon the owner’s property and
penned (housed or stabled) in such a manner that the animals will not place any
person in fear of attack.
   2.   All animals that are included in this chapter shall be required to have
adequate space according to the size and needs of the various animals, and each
animal shall be so restrained in an area to allow proper exercise for the
particular species involved. In cases of horses and mules, minimum pasture area
shall be on an area of 10,000 square feet, with the condition that an
additional horse or mule can be pastured on such area for each 5,000 additional
square feet of pasture land.
   3.   When the owner restrains (harbors) any animal in an area not adjoining
the owner’s residence, the owner shall post his name, address, and phone number
at the place where the animal is being restrained (harbored);
   4.   Any animal housed, restrained or otherwise kept within the City shall
be kept in such a manner that no habitual odor, smell, or noise shall cause
annoyance or disturbance to a person or persons. Proof of ownership of the
animals shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption of permission of
that owner in any proceedings charging any violation of the section.
CHAPTER 58
URBAN DEER
 
58.01 Purpose           58.05 General Rules
58.02 Definitions       58.06 Permits
58.03 Qualifications    58.07 Violation
58.04 Hunting Locations 58.08 Restriction
 
58.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to enhance public safety by allowing the
hunting of deer within the boundaries of the City.
58.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter:
   1.   “Arrow” is limited to the arrows allowed under the laws of the State
and the regulations of the Iowa Department of Natural Resources (IDNR).
   2.   “Bow” is limited as to the bows allowed under the law of the State and
the regulations of the Iowa Department of Natural Resources (IDNR).
   3.   “Deer” means any fawn, either female or male, or any doe, without a
pair of visible hard, bony, deciduous growths on the head, when viewed from a
reasonable hunting position.
   4.   “Elevated stand” means a minimum height of at least 10 vertical feet
off the ground in a non-permanent and portable artificially erected or natural
growth stand.
   5.   “Holder” means the possessor of a fee interest, a tenant, lessee,
occupant, or person in control of the premises; provided, however, holder shall
not mean the State of Iowa, its political subdivisions, or any public body or
any agencies, departments, boards, or commission thereof.
   6.   “Hunter” means a person who has been issued a permit pursuant to this
chapter.
   7.   “Hunt” or “hunting” means the method of killing deer by bow from an
elevated stand.
   8.   “Land” means private land located in the City, including land used for
agriculture purposes, marshlands, timber, grasslands, privately owned roads,
water, water courses, private ways, and buildings, structures, and machinery or
equipment appurtenant thereto.
   9.   “Permit” means a document issued by the City that allows for a
qualified hunter to hunt deer pursuant to this chapter.
58.03   QUALIFICATIONS.
   A hunter may be issued a permit at no cost if the following qualifications
are satisfied:
   1.   A hunter is 18 years of age or older.
   2.   The hunter has a State hunting license.
   3.   The hunter provides proof to the Council of a deer management zone
license issued by the IDNR.
   4.   The hunter shows proof of successful completion of the International
Bow Hunter Education Class offered by the IDNR.
   5.   The hunter shows proof of successful completion of all rules,
procedures, and ethics required by administrators of the special area deer
management zone in the County, and presents verification to the Mayor of
compliance with said rules, procedures, and ethics of the IDNR zone
administered by the County and the IDNR.
   6.   The hunter shows proof of permission or consent from the holder of land
that the hunter is permitted to hunt on the land .
58.04   HUNTING LOCATIONS.
   Hunting shall occur on land that the holder has given signature
authorization and permission for hunting to occur thereon and that has been
approved of by the Mayor, and is specifically limited to only land within the
City limits, which is north of Dubuque Road and west of Elk Run Road to the
City limits.
58.05   GENERAL RULES.
   The conditions under which hunting shall be conducted are meant to minimize
the risk of injury to persons and property and are as follows:
   1.   All shots must be made toward a deer that is not more than 20 yards
from the hunter’s location.
   2.   Unless otherwise waived in writing by the holder, and the holders of
land adjoining and adjacent to the authorized locations, elevated stands must
be located at least 150 feet from any occupied building, or 75 feet from any
unoccupied building.
   3.   When hunting, the hunter shall at all times have in his or her
possession the permit issued pursuant to this chapter and the proof of the
consent and any applicable waivers by the holder of the land upon which the
hunter is hunting.
   4.   A hunter must immediately remove him or herself from any harassment
situation and report the same to the County Sheriff’s Department.
   5.   A hunter must report any violators of this chapter and the rules
promulgated thereunder to the County Sheriff’s Department.
58.06   PERMITS.
   Permits will be issued in the sole discretion of the Mayor, based upon the
qualifications contained in this chapter and upon the applicant submitting all
of the required documents to the City Clerk, who in turn will submit them to
the Mayor for approval.
58.07   VIOLATION.
   Hunters in violation of this chapter shall have their permit revoked
indefinitely.
58.08   RESTRICTION.
   This chapter and the rules promulgated thereunder shall not be construed by
a hunter to be any less restrictive than the laws of the State and the
regulations established by the IDNR.
CHAPTER 59
URBAN CHICKENS
 
59.01 Definitions                         59.07 Feed and Storage
59.02 Permit Required                     59.08 Waste Storage and Removal
59.03 Number and Type of Chickens Allowed 59.09 Unlawful Acts
59.04 Zoning Districts Allowed            59.10 Disclaimer
59.05 Non-Commercial Use Only             59.11 Nuisances
59.06 Enclosures and Related Items
 
59.01   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   “Chicken” means a member of the subspecies Gallus gallus domesticus, a
domesticated fowl.
   2.   “Urban chicken” means a chicken kept on a permitted tract of land
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter.
   3.   “Permitting officer” means the City Clerk.
   4.   “Tract of land” means a property or a zoned lot that has one single-
family dwelling located on that property or zoned lot.
   5.   “Single-family dwelling” means any building that contains only one
dwelling unit used, intended, rented, leased, let, or hired to be occupied for
living purposes.
   6.   “Permitted tract of land” means the tract of land as identified by the
application upon which a permit is granted for keeping chickens pursuant to
this chapter.
   7.   “Permittee” means an applicant who has been granted a permit to raise,
harbor, or keep chickens pursuant to this chapter.
59.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Permit Required. No person shall raise, harbor, or keep chickens within
the City without a valid permit obtained from the permitting officer under the
provisions of this chapter.
   2.   Application. In order to obtain a permit, an applicant must submit a
completed application on forms provided by the permitting officer and paying
all fees required by this chapter. The Urban Chicken Permit shall be valid for
three years and may not be sold, transferred, or assigned.
   3.   Permit Fees. The initial permit fee is $20.00. The fee to renew the
permit is $20.00 annually. If the City issues the permittee a Notice of
Violation and if the permittee has not cured the violation when the property is
re-inspected, the permittee shall be assessed a re-inspection fee of $35.00,
which is due in 30 days. If the violation has been cured, no re-inspection fee
shall be assessed.
   4.   Leg Bands Required. The permittee shall place and keep leg bands on all
of said person’s chickens, showing the permit number.
   5.   Requirements. The requirements to the receipt of a permit include:
      A.   All requirements of this chapter are met.
      B.   All fees, as may be provided for from time to time by City Council
resolution, for the permit are paid in full.
      C.   All judgements in the City’s favor and against the applicant have
been paid in full.
      D.   The tract of land to be permitted shall contain only one single-
family dwelling occupied and used as such by the permittee.
      E.   The applicant has provided notice to the residents of all properties
located within a 100 foot radius from the location of the proposed coop of the
applicant’s intent to obtain a permit.
      F.   Tenant must obtain the landlord’s written permission to install a
coop.
      G.   Site Plan Showing Space and Placement of Chicken Enclosure. The
permitting officer shall issue a permit to keep or maintain chickens in the
City only after a site plan showing spacing and placement of chicken enclosure
has been submitted and meets the requirements of this section. Drainage system
shall be included with design on Urban Chicken Permit.
   6.   Issuance of Permit. If the permitting officer concludes as a result of
the information contained in the application that the requirements for a permit
have been met, then the officer shall issue the permit.
   7.   Denial, Suspension, Revocation, Non-Renewal. The permitting officer or
designee may deny, suspend, revoke, or decline to renew any permit issued for
any of the following grounds:
      A.   False statements on any application or other information or report
required by this section to be given by the applicant.
      B.   Failure to pay any application, penalty, re-inspection, or
reinstatement fee required by this section or City Council resolution.
      C.   Failure to correct deficiencies noted in Notices of Violation in the
time specified in the notice.
      D.   Failure to comply with the provisions of an approved mitigation or
remediation plan by the permitting officer.
      E.   Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter.
   8.   Notification. A decision to revoke, suspend, deny, or not renew a
permit shall be in writing, delivered by ordinary mail or in person to the
address indicated on the application. The notification shall specify reasons
for the action.
   9.   Effect of Revocation. When an application for a permit is denied, or
when a permit is revoked, the applicant may not re-apply for a new permit for a
period of one year from the date of the denial or revocation.
   10.   Appeals. No permit may be denied, suspended, revoked, or not renewed
without notice and an opportunity to be heard given the applicant or holder of
the permit. In any instance where the permitting officer has denied, revoked,
suspended, or not renewed a permit, the applicant or holder of urban chickens
may appeal the decision to the City Clerk, or designee other than the
permitting officer within 10 business days of receipt by the applicant or
holder of the permit of the notice of the decision. The applicant or holder of
the permit will be given an opportunity for a hearing. The decision of the
officer hearing the appeal, or any decision by the permitting officer which is
not appealed in accordance with this chapter shall be deemed final action.
59.03   NUMBER AND TYPE OF CHICKENS ALLOWED.
   1.   The maximum number of chickens allowed is six per tract of land
regardless of how many dwelling units are on the tract.
   2.   All such chickens must be hens; no roosters are permitted.
59.04   ZONING DISTRICTS ALLOWED.
   Chickens are permitted only on land located in residential districts as
identified on the current Official Zoning Map on file with the City.
59.05   NON-COMMERCIAL USE ONLY.
   A permit shall not allow the permittee to engage in chicken breeding, sale
of eggs and chickens, or fertilizer production for commercial purposes.
59.06   ENCLOSURES AND RELATED ITEMS.
   (See alternate enclosure regulations below)
   1.   Chickens must be confined in a coop or fowl house not less than 18
inches height or, in the alternative, within a fenced pen area. Chickens must
be kept within the coop, the fowl house, or the fenced pen area at all times
unless removed for a temporary time for the safety of the chicken.
   2.   The coop, the fowl house, or the fenced pen area must be of such a
design to be reasonably expected to prevent entry by dogs, cats, or other
animals and shall be completely enclosed. The coop or fowl house must be used
for chickens only and must be well ventilated.
   3.   The coop, the fowl house, or the fenced pen area shall have a minimum
of four square feet of floor area for each chicken but shall not be any larger
than 12 square feet of area for each chicken. The coop, fowl house, or fenced
pen area shall be a minimum of 25 feet from any habitable structure and a
minimum of five feet from the habitable structure on the applicant’s property.
The location of the coop, fowl house, or fenced pen shall be in the rear yard
only.
   4.   Coops shall be built of solid materials such as wood, metal, or
plastic.
   5.   Any enclosed chicken pen shall consist of sturdy wire fencing. The pen
must be covered with wire, aviary nettings, or solid roofing.
   6.   Chickens are not allowed to be free range in a fenced rear yard.
   7.   Chickens must be kept in an enclosure or fenced area at all times.
Chickens shall be secured within a henhouse or chicken tractor during non-
daylight hours.
   8.   The permittee shall not allow the permittee’s chickens to roam off the
permitted tract of land. No dog or cat or other domesticated animal which kills
a chicken off the permitted tract of land will, for that reason alone, not be
considered a dangerous or aggressive animal or the City’s responsibility to
enforce its animal control provisions.
   9.   The City shall not be liable for injury or death of chickens caused by
dogs, cats, or other animals, domestic or wild. Any dead chicken, not caused by
slaughtering, shall be disposed of immediately upon discovering in a manner so
as to not cause a nuisance.
59.07   FEED AND STORAGE.
   Chickens shall be provided with access to feed and clean water at all times.
All chicken feed shall be stored in rodent-proof containers.
59.08   WASTE STORAGE AND REMOVAL.
   Any coop, fowl house, or fenced pen area must be well drained so there is no
accumulation of moisture and allows the chickens to have access to dry ground
at all times. Any coop, fowl house, or fenced pen area shall be kept clean,
sanitary, and free from accumulation of chicken excrement and objectionable
odors. All droppings and body excretions shall be either placed in fly-proof
containers and double-bagged in plastic bags or, in the alternative, used as
fertilizer on the same property or, with the owner’s permission, on other
property within the City, so long as the droppings and body excretions are
spread and incorporated into the soil within 24 hours.
59.09   UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   1.   It is unlawful for any person to keep chickens in violation of any
provision of this chapter or any other provision of this Code of Ordinances.
   2.   It is unlawful for any owner, renter, or leaseholder of property to
allow chickens to be kept on the property in violation of the provisions of
this chapter.
   3.   No person shall keep chickens inside a single-family dwelling unit,
multi-family dwelling unit, or rental unit.
   4.   No person shall slaughter any chickens within the City.
   5.   No person shall keep a rooster.
   6.   No person shall keep chickens on a vacant or uninhabited tract of land.
59.10   DISCLAIMER.
   An applicant is responsible to determine whether restrictive covenants
prohibits keeping chickens on the applicant’s property. The issuance of a
permit under this chapter does not affect prohibitions contained in restrictive
covenants.
59.11   NUISANCES.
   Any violation of the terms of this chapter that constitutes a health hazard
or that interferes with the use or enjoyment of neighboring property is a
nuisance and may be abated under the general nuisance abatement provisions of
Chapter 50.
(Chapter 59 – Ord. 302 – Jul. 25 Supp.)
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic         
 
60.01   TITLE.
   Chapters
60 through
70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the “Elk Run Heights
Traffic Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code”).
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
   Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law,
such definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
   1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway when 50 percent or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300
feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business.
   2.   “MPH” means miles per hour.
   3.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   4.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   5.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban, or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
   6.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
   7.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   8.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
   9.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   10.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in
the business, school, or residence districts.
   11.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   12.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or
alley.
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the peace officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the
Fire Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the
event of an emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the
City shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
   A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading, or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01   INSTALLATION.
   The Council shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control devices
when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or emergency or
temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency or temporary
condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or warn traffic.
The Council shall keep a record of all such traffic control devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02   CROSSWALKS.
   The peace officer is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council
by resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic
control devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is
particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such
other places as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.03   TRAFFIC LANES.
   The peace officer is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this
Traffic Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.04   STANDARDS.
   Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05   COMPLIANCE.
   No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official
traffic control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, unless at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to
the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under
Sections 321.231 and 321.231A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Engine Brakes and Compression Brakes
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle       
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of
a peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
   1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
   2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
   3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
   4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
   5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
   6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
   7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
   8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
   9.   Section 321.91 – Limitation on liability; penalty for abandonment.
   10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
   11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
   12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
   13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
   14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed; operation of commercial
vehicles.
   15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicle with expired license.
   16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits, commercial learner’s permits,
and chauffeur’s instruction permits.
   17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged
fourteen through seventeen.
   18.   Section 321.193 – Restrictions on licenses; penalty.
   19.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ licenses.
   20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order;
penalties.
   21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card; penalty.
   22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
   23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
   24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified; penalties.
   25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
   26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
   27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
   28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
   29.   Section 321.223 – Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle
rental.
   30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
   31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
   32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles, highway use.
   33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
   34.   Section 321.235B – Low-speed electric bicycles.
   35.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
   36.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
   37.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
   38.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals;
unlawful possession; traffic signal preemption devices.
   39.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited;
vehicle damage only; removal of vehicles.
   40.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid; leaving scene of personal
injury accident.
   41.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
   42.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
   43.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
   44.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   45.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while
driving; text-messaging.
   46.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
   47.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
   48.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
   49.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
   50.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles, drivers.
   51.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles, passengers.
   52.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
   53.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
   54.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
   55.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
   56.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
   57.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
   58.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
   59.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
   60.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
   61.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
   62.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
   63.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
   64.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
   65.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
   66.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
   67.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
   68.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
   69.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
   70.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
   71.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
   72.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
   73.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
   74.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
   75.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
   76.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
   77.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
   78.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
   79.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
   80.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
   81.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
   82.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
   83.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
   84.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   85.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
   86.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
   87.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
   88.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
   89.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
   90.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
   91.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
   92.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
   93.   Section 321.364 – Preventing contamination of food by hazardous
material.
   94.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
   95.   Section 321.366 – Acts prohibited on fully-controlled access
facilities.
   96.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
   97.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
   98.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
   99.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
   100.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
   101.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils, stopping requirements;
penalties.
   102.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
   103.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
   104.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
   105.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
   106.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
   107.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
   108.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles, motorized bicycles, and
all-terrain vehicles.
   109.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
   110.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
   111.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
   112.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
   113.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
   114.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
   115.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
   116.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
   117.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
   118.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
   119.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
   120.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
   121.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
   122.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
   123.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
   124.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
   125.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
   126.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
   127.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
   128.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
   129.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
   130.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
   131.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front, rear lights.
   132.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
   133.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
   134.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
   135.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
   136.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, air horns and bells prohibited.
   137.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
   138.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
   139.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
   140.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
   141.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
   142.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
   143.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
   144.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
   145.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
   146.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
   147.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
   148.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
   149.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
   150.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while
operating a commercial motor vehicle.
   151.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
   152.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
   153.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
   154.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
   155.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
   156.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
   157.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
   158.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
   159.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
   160.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight; exceptions, penalties.
   161.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
   162.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
   The peace officer shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof
a play street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the
roadway indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized signs
are erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person
shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area
except at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
   It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to
obstruct the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear
view of traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such
obstruction is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be
abated in the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
62.07   ENGINE BRAKES AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate within the
City any engine brake, compression brake, or mechanical exhaust device designed
to aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle which results in
excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle (except in the
case of an emergency); or to drive or operate a vehicle, either singly or with
others, in any processional milling or repeated movement over any street to the
interference with normal traffic use or to the annoyance or offense of any
person.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                             63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits             63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots  
 
63.01   GENERAL.
   Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
of any other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on
any street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a
stop within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
   The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
   1.   Business District – 20 MPH.
   2.   Residence or School District – 25 MPH.
   3.   Suburban District – 45 MPH.
63.03   PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
   A speed in excess of 15 MPH in any public park, cemetery, or parking lot,
unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
   In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section 63.02 is greater
or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist at any
intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street system, the
Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower speed limit
as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following special speed
zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
   1.   Special 25 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 25 MPH is unlawful on
any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   All City streets other than Lafayette Road, Gilbertville Road, and
Plaza Drive, unless otherwise specifically provided herein.
      B.   Gilbertville Road, from Amber Lane to Dubuque Road.
      C.   Lafayette Road, from Gilbertville Road eastward.
   2.   Special 30 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 30 MPH is unlawful on
any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Lafayette Road, from McCoy Road to Gilbertville Road.
3.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 35 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Plaza Drive, from Gilbertville Road to Dubuque Road.
      B.   Gilbertville Road, from Plaza Drive to Amber Lane.
4.   Special 45 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 45 MPH is unlawful on any
of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Gilbertville Road, from Birdland Drive to Plaza Drive.
      B.   Dubuque Road from 685 feet west of the South Elk Run Road/
Gilbertville Road intersection and the eastern City limit is approximately
2,853 feet east of the Plaza Drive intersection.
(Subsection 4 –Ord. 291 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
63.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
   A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede
or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced
speed is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Left Turn for Parking
64.02 U-Turns                   
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
   1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
The Council may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent
to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions require,
that a different course from that specified above be traveled by vehicles
turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed, no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
64.02   U-TURNS.
   It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the Business District at the following
designated intersections and at intersections where there are automatic traffic
signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
- NONE -
64.03   LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
   No person shall make a left hand turn, crossing the centerline of the
street, for the purpose of parking on said street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Through Streets             65.06 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.02 Stop Required               65.07 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.03 Four-Way Stop Intersections 65.08 Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks
65.04 Yield Required              65.09 Official Traffic Controls
65.05 School Stops                 
 
65.01   THROUGH STREETS.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop, unless a yield is permitted by this
chapter, before entering an intersection with the following designated through
streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   U.S. HWY 20, from the west corporation line to the east corporation
line of the City.
   2.   Lafayette Road, from the west corporation line to the westerly line of
Gilbertville Road; and from the easterly line of Gilbertville Road to the east
corporation line of the City.
   3.   McCoy Road, from the southerly line of Lafayette Road to the south
corporation line of the City.
   4.   Gilbertville Road, from the southerly line of U.S. HWY 20 to the east
corporation line of the City.
   5.   Elk Run Street, from the east line of McCoy Road to the southwesterly
line of Gilbertville Road.
   6.   Michigan Drive, from the east line of McCoy Road to the west line of
James Street.
   7.   James Street, from the south line of Michigan Drive to the south line
of Elk Run Street.
   8.   Marie Avenue, from the east line of McCoy Road to the southwesterly
line of Gilbertville Road.
   9.   Plaza Drive, from the south line of Gilbertville Road to the south line
of Dubuque Road.
65.02   STOP REQUIRED.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with all stop signs and
clearly marked stop lines.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
65.03   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following
designated four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Intersection of Gilbertville Road and Lafayette Road.
   2.   Intersection of Gilbertville Road and Marie Avenue.
   3.   Intersection of Marie Avenue and Sutton Avenue.
(Section 65.03 – Ord. 289 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
65.04   YIELD REQUIRED.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Everett Street, entering Marie Avenue.
   2.   Everett Street, entering Elk Run Street.
   3.   Toneff Drive, entering James Street.
   4.   Ann Street, entering Michigan Drive.
65.05   SCHOOL STOPS.
   At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
On all school days from 8:30 a.m. to 9:15 a.m., from 11:15 a.m. to 1:20 p.m.,
and from 3:15 p.m. to 4:00 p.m., a movable stop sign or signs shall be placed
at the east end of the bridge on Lafayette Road in the City; at the entrance
and exit of Elk Run School Drive; and between the 200 and 300 block on Sutton
Avenue.
65.06   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.07   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
   Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.08   YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.
   Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver
of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need
be, to yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk
or within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
65.09   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROLS.
   Every driver shall observe and comply with the directions provided by
official traffic control signals at the following intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
   1.   Intersection of Gilbertville Road and U.S. HWY 20.
   2.   Intersection of Plaza Drive and Dubuque Road.
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.05 Truck Routes
66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets    
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
   If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets
will be seriously damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an
amount specified by the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so
designated by such signs erected in accordance with Chapter 61 of this Traffic
Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 and 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
   The Council may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a
special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 321E.2
66.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the streets or parts of streets for which said signs are
erected in accordance with Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 475)
66.04   LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
   Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than
the maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Council may cause to be posted and maintained signs, in accordance
with
Chapter 61 of this Traffic Code, on said bridge and at suitable distances ahead
of the entrances thereof to warn drivers of such maximum load limits, and no
person shall drive a vehicle weighing, loaded or unloaded, upon said bridge in
excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
66.05   TRUCK ROUTE.
   When truck routes have been designated in accordance with Chapter 61, any
motor vehicle exceeding established weight limits shall comply with the
following:
   1.   Use of Established Routes. Every such motor vehicle having no fixed
terminal within the City or making no scheduled or definite stops within the
City for the purpose of loading or unloading shall travel over or upon those
streets within the City designated as truck routes and none other.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   2.   Deliveries Off Truck Route. Any such motor vehicle, when loaded or
empty, having a fixed terminal, making a scheduled or definite stop within the
City for the purpose of loading or unloading shall proceed over or upon the
designated routes to the nearest point of its scheduled or definite stop and
shall proceed thereto, load or unload and return, by the most direct route to
its point of departure from said designated route.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   3.   Employer’s Responsibility. The owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle shall not require or knowingly
permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to
this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
   Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on
the left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
   No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
   Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than
permitted cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when
appropriate signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
- NONE -
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb        69.06 Parking Prohibited
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets   69.07 Persons with Disabilities Parking
69.03 Angle Parking                69.08 Truck Parking Permit
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking      69.09 Snow Routes
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes 69.10 Snow Emergency
Illegal
 
69.01   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking
and vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
- NONE -
69.04   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
   Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked
for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an
angle to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as
indicated by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load
thereon, when said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall
extend into the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right
angles to the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 24 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
   3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
   4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a
duly established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code
of Ordinances.
   5.   Storage or as junkage or dead storage for more than 24 hours.
69.06   PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
   2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk. No motor vehicle shall be parked on
or obstruct any public sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
   5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway. A motor vehicle may
be parked upon a driveway. For the purposes of this section, a driveway shall
be the area designated which provides access from the public street to a
parking area, an attached garage, carport or detached garage. The driveway
shall be free of grass and weeds and maintained with concrete, brick,
stabilized gravel, or combinations of such materials with the necessary base,
asphalt or other material as approved by Council
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
   6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 30 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
   7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
   8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
   9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
   10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
   11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
   12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
   13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
   14.   Churches, Nursing Homes, and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
   15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
   17.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line. That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed, except that non-residents may only temporarily park
for a period up to 30 minutes where no curbing exists, unless otherwise
prohibited in this chapter.
   18.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any
part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
   19.   Residential Parking. Motor vehicle parking and storage is not
permitted in any yard in a zoning district, except as provided in this section.
No parking is allowed in the front yard. Start at front of house closest to
driveway across the front of the property to the side lot line. Current owner
may maintain that portion which is graveled.
      A.   Recreational Vehicle. For purposes of this section, recreational
vehicles shall include bus campers, camper trailers, pickup campers, travel
trailers, motor homes, snowmobiles, boats, and trailers. Recreational vehicles
shall not be used for living, sleeping, or residential purposes while parked or
stored pursuant to this section. Recreational vehicles may only be parked in
the front yard upon a driveway for up to 14 days unless stored in an enclosed
area.
      B.   Side and Rear Yard Parking. No more than two motor vehicles may be
parked or stored in any side yard or rear yard, and any such vehicles must be
parked or stored on a driveway, carport, hard surface pad, or accessory
building as defined in this Code of Ordinances.
      C.   Equipment and Materials. No farming equipment or farming machinery
shall be parked or stored unless within an enclosed structure.
      D.   Hard Surface Pads. For the purposes of this section, a hard surface
pad shall be defined as surfaced and maintained with concrete, brick,
stabilized gravel, combinations of such materials with the necessary base,
asphalt, or other material approved by Council.
      E.   Motor Vehicles. For purposes of this section, motor vehicles shall
include automobiles, motorcycles, vans, pickup trucks, similar vehicles, and
recreational vehicles.
      F.   Temporary Parking. A vehicle may be parked in the front yard on a
temporary basis for only 48 hours. Movement of the vehicle within the front
yard within the 48-hour time period shall not constitute a defense and it is
the intent of this paragraph to allow temporary parking for 48 hours for unique
circumstances and under limited circumstances.
      G.   Exceptions. Properties used for agricultural purposes and any State
or railroad-owned property are excepted from the requirements of this section;
however, any agriculturally used property that is adjacent to a City right-of-
way must adhere to the requirements of this chapter. It is the intent of this
section that provisions pertaining to hard surface on driveways are effective
from this point forward and any residence previously in compliance with this
code shall be considered “grandfathered” pertaining to driveway surfaces only.
69.07   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
   The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of
persons with disabilities parking spaces:
   1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
   2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
      A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
      B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section
321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
      A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.
      B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08   TRUCK PARKING PERMIT.
   All trucks and semi-tractors shall only be allowed to park within the City
limits after displaying a properly issued parking permit which is issued and
signed by the Mayor. The City will permit parking of trucks and semi-tractors
by written permit. Permits will be issued allowing parking under the following
conditions:
   1.   The permit applicant must be the registered owner/operator of the truck
and a resident of the lot where the truck or semi-tractor will be parked.
   2.   The parking permit will be issued to the owner/operator for the truck
or semi-tractor described on the parking permit. The permit shall be
nontransferable.
   3.   The truck or semi-tractor may be parked only at the address given on
the permit and nowhere else within the City, and only driven on the route
designated on the permit.
   4.   The parking permit shall specifically deny excessive idling as defined
as the operating of the truck or semi-tractor in excess of 30 minutes.
   5.   The truck or semi-tractor shall be parked in the owner’s/operator’s
driveway allowing ample room for right-of-way, with the parking permit
displayed conspicuously in the windshield.
   6.   The truck or semi-tractor shall be backed in the drive so that the
parking permit is visible from the street.
   7.   The enforcement of the rules granting a parking permit shall be
enforced either by a simple misdemeanor ordinance violation, or, alternatively,
a municipal infraction.
   8.   Upon conviction of a violation of the parking permit rules, the Mayor
shall revoke the parking permit.
   9.   Reissuance of a parking permit shall be discretionary with the Mayor
upon their satisfaction that the owner/operator will cease and desist any
further violations.
   10.   That an owner/operator convicted of two violations of this section
shall not be entitled to issuance of a parking permit for a period not to
exceed five years.
69.09   SNOW ROUTES.
   The Council may designate certain streets in the City as snow routes. When
conditions of snow or ice exist on the traffic surface of a designated snow
route, it is unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to impede or block traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[12])
69.10   SNOW EMERGENCY.
   1.   No person shall park, abandon, or leave unattended any vehicle on any
public street, alley, or City-owned off-street parking area during any snow
emergency proclaimed by the Mayor unless the snow has been removed or plowed
from said street, alley, or parking area and the snow has ceased to fall. The
parking prohibition shall not go into effect until two hours after a snow
emergency has been declared in accordance with this section. A snow emergency
parking ban shall continue from its proclamation through the duration of the
snow or ice storm and the 48-hour period after cessation of such storm, except
as above provided upon streets which have been fully opened. Such emergency may
be extended or shortened when conditions warrant.
   2.   When weather forecasts or occurrences indicate the need, the Mayor or
peace officer (or in the absence or unavailability of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro
Tem) shall proclaim a snow emergency and request all available news media to
publicize the proclamation and applicable parking restrictions.
   3.   When it is declared that a snow emergency is in effect, it is unlawful
for the driver of any vehicle to impede or block traffic on any City street.
   4.   Any peace officer or the street commissioner shall be authorized to
cause the towing of vehicles blocking traffic or parking on a City street
during a snow emergency in violation of this section. The owner of the vehicle
shall pay the costs of towing and storage occasioned by the removal of the
vehicle.
   5.   In any proceeding for violation of this section, the registration plate
displayed on a motor vehicle involved in such violation shall constitute in
evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of such motor
vehicle was the person who parked or placed such motor vehicle at the point
where such violation occurred.
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
   Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
   1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
   2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate
a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner
of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
   For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of
the Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of
those violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
70.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
   Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
office of the City Clerk. The fine for each violation charged under a simple
notice of a fine shall be in the amount of $35.00 for all violations except
snow route parking violations and improper use of a persons with disabilities
parking permit. If such fine is not paid within 30 days, it shall be increased
by $5.00. The fine for snow route parking violations is $100.00 and the fine
for improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit is $100.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b] and 321L.4[2])
70.04   PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
   When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code,
and the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein
provided shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
   1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information
was parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
   2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot, or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
   4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can be
located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and
storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND GOLF CARTS
 
75.01 Purpose                          75.07 Negligence
75.02 Definitions                      75.08 Accident Reports
75.03 General Regulations              75.09 Permits
75.04 Operation of ATVs                75.10 Equipment
75.05 Operation of Golf Carts          75.11 Operational Restrictions
75.06 Unlawful Operation of Golf Carts  
 
75.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles and golf carts within the City.
75.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   2.   “Golf cart” means a three- or four-wheeled recreational vehicle
generally used for transportation of persons in the sport of golf that is
limited in engine displacement of less than 800 cubic centimeters and total dry
weight of less than 800 pounds.
   3.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat
or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   4.   “Off-road utility vehicle” or “UTV” means a motorized vehicle, with not
less than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks,
that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled
by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road
utility vehicle” or “UTV” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
      A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
      B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” includes vehicles, other than
Type 1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of
65 inches or less.
      C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or
both.
An operator of an UTV is also subject to the provisions of this chapter
governing the operation of ATVs.
   5.   “Operate” means to ride in or on (other than as a passenger), use, or
control the operation of a golf cart in any manner, whether or not the golf
cart is moving.
   6.   “Operator” means a person who operates or is in actual physical control
of a golf cart.
   7.   “Roadway” means that portion of a highway improved, designated, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   8.   “Street” or “highway” means that entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for the purpose of vehicular travel.
75.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle, or off-road utility
vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
golf cart within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321.247 of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G and Ch. 321I)
75.04   OPERATION OF ATVS.
   The operators of ATVs and UTVs shall comply with the following restrictions
as to where ATVs and UTVs may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. ATVs and UTVS may be operated on roadways or highways in
accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa. A City may regulate the
operation of registered ATVs and UTVs and may designate streets under the
jurisdiction of the City within its corporate limits, and two-lane primary and
secondary road extensions in the City, which may be used for the operation of
such vehicles. In designating such streets, the City may authorize ATVs and
UTVs to stop at service stations or convenience stores along a designated
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 and 3])
   2.   Trails. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except
where designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. An ATV or UTV may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])
   4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated in any
park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City.
   5.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs and UTVs shall not be operated upon the
public sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and
the sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
   6.   Direct Crossing. An ATV or UTV may make a direct crossing of a highway
that is not part of the interstate road system provided all of the following
occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
      A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing.
      B.   The ATV or UTV is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
      C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
      D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
      E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway on which the
ATV or UTV is authorized to operate to a street, roadway, or highway on which
such vehicle is authorized to operate.
75.05   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.  
   The operators of golf carts shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where golf carts may be operated within the City:
   1.   Golf carts may be operated on the City streets after first obtaining a
permit as provided herein. Persons who obtain a permit as required below are
authorized to operate a motorized golf cart on roadways, or portions thereof,
within the City.
   2.   The operation of the golf carts on City streets is to be only by
persons possessing a valid driver’s license and who are 18 years of age or
older.
   3.   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other person having the
care, custody, and control of a minor under the age of 18 years to knowingly
permit or allow such a minor to violate the provisions of this chapter.
   4.   The number of occupants in the motorized golf cart may not exceed the
design occupant load.
75.06   UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.  
   A person shall not drive or operate a golf cart:
   1.   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner as to endanger the person
or property of another or cause injury or damage thereto.
   2.   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics or habit-
forming drugs.
   3.   In or on any park, playground, sidewalk, or upon any public owned
property except with the permission of the governing body thereof.
75.07   NEGLIGENCE.
   The owner and operator of an ATV or golf cart are liable for any injury or
damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV or golf cart. The owner
of an ATV or golf cart shall be liable for any such injury or damage only if
the owner was the operator of the ATV or golf cart at the time the injury or
damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent to operate the ATV
or golf cart at the time the injury or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 and 321I.19)
75.08   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   Whenever an ATV or golf cart is involved in an accident resulting in injury
or death to anyone, or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more, either
the operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify a law
enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 and 321I.11)
75.09   PERMITS.
   The following requirements apply to permit fees for operators of any golf
cart:
   1.   No person shall operate a golf cart on any public street or alley, for
any purpose, unless the operator possesses a City permit to operate said
vehicle within the City.
   2.   Owners and operators of a cart may apply for a permit from the City on
forms provided by the City and available at City Hall.
(Ord. 280 – Nov. 23 Supp.)
75.10   EQUIPMENT.
   All vehicles governed by this chapter shall be equipped with a minimum of
the following features:
   1.   A safety flag, the top of which shall be a minimum of five feet from
ground level.
   2.   Adequate brakes.
   3.   A muffler that allows the vehicle to operate without violating the
City’s noise ordinance.
   4.   A mirror that allows the operator to view behind the vehicle.
   5.   Working turn signals.
   6.   All equipment necessary to keep the vehicle in good mechanical
condition and thoroughly safe for transportation of passengers.
   7.   Working headlights, taillights, and brake lights.
75.11   OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   All vehicles governed by this chapter may be operated at posted speed
limits, except that they shall not be operated on City streets during poor
visibility due to dense smoke, fog, or other inclement weather conditions, or
when there is insufficient light to clearly see any person or vehicle at a
distance of 500 feet.
CHAPTER 76
SNOWMOBILES
76.01 Purpose                        76.09 Operator’s License of Safety
76.02 Definitions                    76.10 Insurance
76.03 General Regulations            76.11 Use on Private Property – Consent
                                     Required
76.04 Operation of Snowmobiles       76.12 Speed Limits
76.05 Traffic Regulations Govern Use 76.13 Unattended in Public Areas Unlawful
76.06 Safe Operation Required        76.14 Towing Restrictions
76.07 Equipment – General          76.15 Negligence
Requirements
76.08 Equipment – Mufflers Required76.16 Accident Reports
 
76.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of snowmobiles
within the City.
76.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000
pounds, that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a
width of 48 inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and
is designed for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-
terrain vehicle that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type
tracks, or treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
76.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile within the City in violation of the
provisions of Chapter 321G of the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules
established by the Natural Resource Commission of the Department of Natural
Resources governing their registration, equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G)
76.04   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
   The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets that have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])
   2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only
under the following circumstances:
      A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
      B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided all of the following occur:
         (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
         (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
         (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
   4.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
   5.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any
park, playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
   6.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
76.05   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS GOVERN USE.  
   Snowmobile operators shall be required to observe all traffic ordinances of
the City
76.06   SAFE OPERATION REQUIRED.
   Snowmobiles shall be operated in a safe, reasonable, and proper manner under
all existing circumstances.
76.07   EQUIPMENT - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All snowmobiles shall be equipped in accordance with State law.
76.08   EQUIPMENT-MUFFLERS REQUIRED.  
   All snowmobiles operated on permitted streets shall be equipped with a
muffler in good working order to prevent excessive and unusual noises. 
76.09   OPERATOR’S LICENSE OF SAFETY.
   No snowmobile shall be operated on permitted streets by anyone without a
valid operator’s license pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 321 of the Code of Iowa, or a safety certificate issued
pursuant to Chapter 321.G of the Code of Iowa.
76.10   INSURANCE.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile within the City without liability
insurance coverage on both the snowmobile and the snowmobile operator. 
76.11   USE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY-CONSENT REQUIRED.
   No snowmobiles shall be operated on
private property without the express consent of the owner of the private property.
76.12   SPEED LIMITS.
   While operating snowmobiles on permitted streets, the speed of the
snowmobiles shall not exceed 15 miles per hour. 
76.13   UNATTENDED IN PUBLIC AREAS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator to leave or allow the
snowmobile to be or remain unattended on public property while the motor is
running; or with keys for starting the vehicle left in the ignition.
76.14   TOWING RESTRICTIONS.
   No sled or similar object shall be pulled by a snowmobile unless a rigid
tongue-type tow bar is used for such pulling.
76.15   NEGLIGENCE.
   The owner and operator of a snowmobile are liable for any injury or damage
occasioned by the negligent operation of the snowmobile. The owner of a
snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or damage only if the owner was
the operator of the snowmobile at the time the injury or damage occurred or if
the operator had the owner’s consent to operate the snowmobile at the time the
injury or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 and 321I.19)
76.16   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   Whenever a snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in injury or
death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more, either the
operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify a law
enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 and 321I.11)
CHAPTER 77
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
77.01 Scope of Regulations            77.08 Riding on Sidewalks
77.02 Traffic Code Applies            77.09 Towing
77.03 Double Riding Restricted        77.10 Improper Riding
77.04 Two Abreast Limit               77.11 Parking
77.05 Speed                           77.12 Equipment Requirements
77.06 Emerging From Alley or Driveway 77.13 Special Penalty
77.07 Carrying Articles                
 
77.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street
or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
77.02   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to those provisions that by their nature can have no
application. Whenever such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be
subject to all regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
77.03   DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
77.04   TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
77.05   SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
77.06   EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
77.07   CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
that prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
77.08   RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
   1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the Business District, as defined in Section 60.02(1) of this Code of
Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
77.09   TOWING.
   It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any
other vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured
for such use.
77.10   IMPROPER RIDING.
   No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
77.11   PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
77.12   EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
   1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a
distance of at least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except
that a red reflector on the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
   2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
77.13   SPECIAL PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second
offense, and 30 days for a third offense.
CHAPTER 78
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT
 
78.01 Purpose                               76.05 Contesting an Automated
                                            Traffic Citation
78.02 Definitions                           76.06 Exceptions to Owner Liability
78.03 Owner’s Civil Liability for Certain 76.07 Failure to Timely Pay or
Violations                                  Appeal
78.04 Notice of Violation; Civil Penalty     
 
78.01   PURPOSE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code of Ordinances, the City,
acting pursuant to its home rule and police powers authorized by the State, may
deploy, erect, or cause to have erected a civil photo traffic speed enforcement
system, or deploy or cause to have deployed a manual handheld and automated
photo traffic speed enforcement system for making videos, photographs, or
digital images of vehicles that fail to obey speed regulations at locations in
the City. The systems may be managed by the automated traffic enforcement
contractor that owns and operates the requisite equipment, with supervisory
control vested in the City’s law enforcement agency. Videos, photographs, or
digital images shall be provided to the law enforcement agency by the automated
traffic enforcement contractor for review. The law enforcement agency will
determine which vehicle owners are in violation of the City’s traffic control
ordinances and are to receive a notice of violation for the offense.
78.02   DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   1.   “Automated traffic citation” means a notice of penalty generated in
connection with the photo traffic speed enforcement system.
   2.   “Automated traffic enforcement contractor” means the company or entity,
if any, with which the City contracts to provide equipment and/or services in
connection with the Photo traffic speed enforcement system.
   3.   “Law enforcement agency” means the appointed or contracted agency
authorized to enforce the City’s Code of Ordinances.
   4.   “Photo traffic speed enforcement system” means a system consisting of a
photographic, video, or electronic camera and a vehicle sensor that works alone
or in conjunction with an official traffic controller that automatically or
manually produces a photograph, video, or digital image of vehicles engaging in
a violation.
   5.   “Vehicle owner” means the person or entity identified by the Iowa
Department of Transportation; or registered with any other State vehicle
registration office, as the registered owner of a vehicle; or a lessee of a
motor vehicle under a lease of 30 days or more; or the renter of a vehicle
during the period of infraction pursuant to a written rental agreement with a
motor vehicle renting dealer.
78.03   OWNER’S CIVIL LIABILITY FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS.
   1.   The vehicle owner commits a violation of this chapter and shall be
liable for a civil penalty as imposed below if such vehicle travels at a speed
above the posted limit, unless otherwise exempt, as listed in Chapter 63 (Speed
Regulations) of this Code of Ordinances.
   2.   The violation may be exempted from liability as outlined below in
Section 78.06 of this chapter, and other defenses may be considered in
connection with the appeal process.
   3.   In no event will an automated traffic citation be sent or reported to
the Iowa Department of Transportation or similar department of any other state
for the purpose of being added to the vehicle owner’s driving record.
   4.   A peace officer employed or retained by the law enforcement agency
shall examine the image recorded by the photo traffic speed enforcement system
to determine whether a violation has occurred. If the image recorded by the
photo traffic speed enforcement system shows a violation, contains a date and
time of the violation, and shows the vehicle’s license plate number and the
state in which the license was issued, the peace officer may use any lawful
means to identify the vehicle’s owner.
   5.   The fact that a person is the owner of a vehicle shall be prima facie
evidence that said person was operating the vehicle at the time of a violation
recorded by a photo traffic enforcement system.
   6.   The standard to prove violations under this chapter shall be
preponderance of the evidence.
78.04   NOTICE OF VIOLATION; CIVIL PENALTY.
   1.   Not later than 30 days after the violation, and upon identification of
the owner of the vehicle, the law enforcement agency or its designee may issue
a notice of liability charging the owner with a violation. The notice of
liability shall be sent by regular U.S. Mail to the owner’s address on file
with the Iowa Department of Transportation or other State vehicle registration
office and must state:
      A.   The date on which the notice of liability was issued;
      B.   The date, time, and location of the violation;
      C.   The time in which an answer must be made by the owner; and
      D.   The manner in which the owner may contest the violation.
   2.   In addition, a copy of the image or images that served as a basis for
the violation must accompany the notice of liability.
   3.   A person who receives a notice of liability shall be required to
respond in one of the following methods:
      A.   By paying the civil penalty as directed on the notice of liability
within 30 days of the date the notice of liability was issued; or
      B.   By submitting evidence of one of the exceptions to liability listed
in Section
78.06 herein within 30 days of the date the notice of liability was issued; or
      C.   By contesting the automated traffic citation, following the
requirements detailed in Section
78.05 within 30 days of the notice’s issue date.
   4.   Any violation of Subsection
78.03(1) above shall be subject to a civil penalty as listed in the following
table, subject in any event to the limit on civil penalties sought in municipal
infractions. All civil penalties shall be payable to the City.
 
SPEED OVER THE LIMIT CIVIL PENALTY
1 through 5 MPH      $25.00
6 through 10 MPH     $50.00
11 through 20 MPH    $75.00
21 through 25 MPH    $100.00
26 through 30 MPH    $150.00
Over 30 MPH          $200.00
 
   4.   A violation for which a civil penalty is imposed herein shall not be
considered a traffic offense or a moving violation for the purpose of assessing
points under Chapter 321 of the Code of Iowa and shall not be reported to any
other State vehicle registration office.
   5.   Except as set forth herein, nothing herein shall be construed to limit
the liability of an operator of a motor vehicle for the violation of any other
provision of the Code of Iowa or this Code of Ordinances.
78.05   CONTESTING AN AUTOMATED TRAFFIC CITATION.
   A vehicle owner who has been issued an automated traffic citation may
contest the citation by submitting, in a form specified by the City, a request
that in lieu of the automated traffic citation, a municipal infraction citation
be issued and filed with the Iowa District Court in Black Hawk County. Such a
request must be filed within 30 days from the date on which notice of liability
is sent to the vehicle owner. Such a request will result in a court order
requiring the vehicle owner to file an answer and appearance with the Clerk of
Court, as well as setting the matter for trial before a judge or magistrate. If
the court finds the vehicle owner liable for the municipal infraction, State
mandated court costs will be added to the amount of the civil penalty imposed
by this chapter. The vehicle owner may appeal the Iowa District Court’s
decision pursuant to the Code of Iowa.
78.06   EXCEPTIONS TO OWNER LIABILITY.
   There shall be no liability pursuant to this chapter if:
   1.   The operator of the vehicle in question was issued a uniform traffic
citation for the violation in question pursuant to Chapter 62 of this Code of
Ordinances or under the Code of Iowa. 
   2.   The violation occurred at any time after the vehicle in question or its
State registration plates were reported to a law enforcement agency as having
been stolen, provided, however, and the owner submits, to the address listed on
the ticket, a copy of the police report stating the vehicle or license plate
had been reported stolen at the time the vehicle or its plates had not been
recovered by the vehicle owner at the time of the alleged violation; or
   3.   The vehicle in question was an authorized emergency vehicle; or the
driver of the vehicle engaged in the violation in order to yield the right-of-
way to an emergency vehicle; or
   4.   The officer inspecting the video, photograph, or digital image
determines that the vehicle in question was lawfully participating in a funeral
procession; or
   5.   The vehicle was in the custody of someone other than the vehicle owner
pursuant to a written lease or rental agreement and the vehicle owner submits,
to the address listed on the notice of liability, a copy of the lease or rental
agreement along with the name and address of the lessee or renter; or
   6.   The law enforcement agency determines in equity that the operator’s
actions warrant that no notice of liability be issued.
78.07   FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY OR APPEAL.
   If the vehicle owner that is sent a notice of liability does not either pay
the civil penalty by the due date stated in the notice of liability or appeal
the citation as provided herein, a municipal infraction citation may be filed
by the law enforcement agency and a civil penalty may be sought in accordance
with Subsection
78.03(1) above. If the court finds the vehicle owner liable for the municipal
infraction, State mandated court costs will be added to the amount of the civil
penalty imposed by this chapter.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                       80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of   80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                      Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                    80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Reclamation of Abandoned Vehicles 80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment               
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] and Sec. 321.90)
   1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
      A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
      B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than 24 hours.
      C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property
for more than 24 hours.
      D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
      E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority
to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
      F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
   2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap, or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
   3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request
of any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic,
shall take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take
into custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority
may employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private
entity, equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving,
storing, or disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person
in control of private property may employ a private entity that is a garage
keeper to dispose of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into
custody the abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a
police authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the
police authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses
of the registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
   1.   A police authority or private entity that takes into custody an
abandoned vehicle shall send notice by certified mail that the vehicle has been
taken into custody, no more than 20 days after taking custody of the vehicle.
Notice shall be sent to the last known address of record of the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle.
   2.   Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice shall include all
of the following:
      A.   A description of the year, make, model and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle.
      B.   The location of the facility where the vehicle is being held.
      C.   Information for the persons receiving the notice of their right to
reclaim the vehicle and personal property contained therein within 10 days
after the effective date of the notice. Persons may reclaim the vehicle or
personal property upon payment of all towing, preservation, and storage charges
resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of
the notice required pursuant to this section.
      D.   A statement that failure of the owner, lienholders, or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders, and claimants
of all right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle or personal property.
      E.   A statement that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property
is deemed consent for the police authority or private entity to sell the
vehicle at a public auction or dispose of the vehicle to a demolisher and to
dispose of the personal property by sale or destruction.
   3.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity
without a police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the
private entity may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90,
Subsection 1, of the Code of Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the
vehicle.
   4.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority
or by a private entity hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that
any person claiming rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who
disputes the planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police
authority or private entity, or of the assessment of fees and charges provided
by this section, may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority
to contest those matters.
   5.   If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing or exercise
their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the 10-day
reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer have
any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal
property.
   6.   A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right,
title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the
expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
   7.   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the
identities and addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders,
notice by one publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area
where the vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of
notice under Subsection 2 of this section. The published notice may contain
multiple listings of abandoned vehicles, but shall be published within the same
time requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed
notice in Subsection 2 of this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3])
80.04   RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   Prior to driving an abandoned vehicle away from the premises, a person who
received (or who is reclaiming the vehicle on behalf of a person who received)
notice under Section
80.03 shall present to the police authority or private entity, as applicable,
the person’s valid driver’s license and proof of financial liability coverage
as provided in Section 321.20B of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the
police authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or
not the motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall
dispose of the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found
any abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle
whose title certificate is faulty, lost, or destroyed, may dispose of such
motor vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without
notification procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
The police authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The
applicant shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate
and shall surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of
title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
   Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the
expense of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification
required, in accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner
of the motor vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be
deposited in the State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails
to realize the amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply
for reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
   Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor
vehicle for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish
such motor vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or
demolish a vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate
issued for the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 81
RAILROAD REGULATIONS
 
81.01 Definitions         81.03 Crossing Maintenance
81.02 Obstructing Streets
 
81.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Operator” means any individual, partnership, corporation, or other
association that owns, operates, drives, or controls a railroad train.
   2.   “Railroad train” means an engine or locomotive, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
81.02   OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   Operators shall not operate any train in such a manner as to prevent
vehicular use of any highway, street, or alley for a period of time in excess
of 10 minutes except:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 327G.32)
   1.   Comply with Signals. When necessary to comply with signals affecting
the safety of the movement of trains.
   2.   Avoid Striking. When necessary to avoid striking any object or person
on the track.
   3.   Disabled. When the train is disabled.
   4.   Safety Regulations. When necessary to comply with governmental safety
regulations including, but not limited to, speed ordinances and speed
regulations.
   5.   In Motion. When the train is in motion except while engaged in
switching operations.
   6.   No Traffic. When there is no vehicular traffic waiting to use the
crossing.
   An employee is not guilty of a violation of this section if the employee’s
action was necessary to comply with the direct order or instructions of a
railroad corporation or its supervisors. Guilt is then with the railroad
corporation.
81.03   CROSSING MAINTENANCE.
   Operators shall construct and maintain good, sufficient, and safe crossings
over any street traversed by their rails.
(Bourett vs. Chicago and N.W. Ry. 152 Iowa 579, 132 N.W. 973 [1943])
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.11)
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Definitions                    90.11 Installation of Water Service Pipe
90.02 Superintendent’s Duties      90.12 Responsibility for Water Service
                                     Pipe
90.03 Mandatory Connections          90.13 Failure to Maintain
90.04 Abandoned Connections          90.14 Curb Valve
90.05 Permit                         90.15 Interior Valve
90.06 Fee for Permit and Connection  90.16 Inspection and Approval
Charge
90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code  90.17 Completion by the City
90.08 Plumber or Contractor Required 90.18 Shutting Off Water Supply
90.09 Excavations                    90.19 Operation of Curb Valve and Hydrants
90.10 Tapping Mains                  90.20 Line Extensions
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
   1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
   2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service
from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties
the duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
   3.   “Superintendent” means PeopleService, Inc., or authorized agent or
representative.
   4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
   5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
   6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for
securing, collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02   SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.  
   The Superintendent shall exercise such powers and duties as contained in the
service agreement between the City and PeopleService, Inc.
90.03   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
   The owners of any houses, buildings or structures used for human occupancy,
employment, or use, situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley
or right-of-way in which there is located a public water main are hereby
required to connect such facilities to the City’s public water system in
accordance with the provisions of these Water Service chapters within 60 days
after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said public water
main is located within 100 feet of the property line of such owner.
90.04   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
   When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a
new tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned
off at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight.
90.05   PERMIT.
   Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City. The application for the permit shall
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water. If the proposed work meets all the requirements of this chapter
and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid, the permit shall be
issued. Work under any permit must be completed within 60 days after the permit
is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or unfair due to
conditions beyond the control of the person making the application, an
extension of time within which to complete the work may be granted. The permit
may be revoked at any time for any violation of these chapters.
90.06   FEE FOR PERMIT AND CONNECTION CHARGE.
   Before any permit is issued the person who makes the application shall pay
$50.00 to the Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising,
regulating, and inspecting the work. In addition there shall be a connection
charge in the amount of $200.00 paid before issuance of a permit to reimburse
the City for costs borne by the City in making water service available to the
property served.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
   The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural, or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.
90.08   PLUMBER OR CONTRACTOR REQUIRED.
   All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a contractor or State-licensed plumber.
90.09   EXCAVATIONS.
   All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and the
provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.10   TAPPING MAINS.
   All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision
of the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building, or premises
shall be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained
from the Superintendent and unless provision is made so that each house,
building, or premises may be shut off independently of the other.
   2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter
shall receive no larger than a three-fourths inch tap. All mains of over six
inches in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Superintendent shall order. All taps in the mains shall
be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main shall be
tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
   3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Superintendent, shall be inserted in every tap in the main. The
corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service pipe.
   4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Superintendent in such form as the
Superintendent shall require.
90.11   INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
   1.   Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be Type K
copper. The use of any other pipe material for the service line shall first be
approved by the Superintendent. Pipe must be laid sufficiently waving, and to
such depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
   2.   All PE tubing that is used as service line piping shall have a 12-gauge
tracer wire installed with the pipe. The tracer wire shall be blue in color.
Tracer wire shall be properly connected to the water main or corporation stop
and also be extended and connected inside building. The tracer wire shall be
joined together and connected in an approved tracer wire access box, to be
located next to the curb stop box or within one foot toward the street side of
the curb box at ground level. If “Kurb T.O.P.” style curb box is used, tracer
wire access box can be omitted.
90.12   RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the curb valve to the building
served shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation or maintenance of said water service pipe.
90.13   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
   When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of
the property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails
to correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to
the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.14   CURB VALVE.
   There shall be installed within the public right-of-way a main shut-off
valve on the water service pipe of a pattern approved by the Superintendent.
The shut-off valve shall be constructed to be visible and even with the
pavement or ground.
90.15   INTERIOR VALVE.
   There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others.
90.16   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Superintendent before they are
covered, and the Superintendent shall keep a record of such approvals. If the
Superintendent refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must
proceed immediately to correct the work. Every person who uses or intends to
use the municipal water system shall permit the Superintendent to enter the
premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable
hours and on proof of authority.
90.17   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
   Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours
after the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system,
or should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish
or correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property
owner or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the
costs before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.18   SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
   The Superintendent or City may shut off the supply of water to any customer
because of any violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service
System chapters that is not being contested in good faith. The supply shall not
be turned on again until all violations have been corrected and the
Superintendent or City has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.19   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
   It is unlawful for any person except the Superintendent to turn water on at
the curb valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by the City,
shall open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose
whatsoever.
90.20   LINE EXTENSIONS.
   The City will construct extensions to its water lines to points within its
service area, but the City is not required to make such installations unless
the customer pays to the City the entire cost of the installation. All line
extensions shall be evidenced by a contract signed by the City and the person
advancing funds for said extension. If refund of the advance is to be made, the
following method shall apply: 20 percent of the total gross revenue of water
sales per year for each service connected to the new extension described in the
agreement, for a period not to exceed five years, provided that the aggregate
payments do not exceed the total amount deposited. No refund shall be made from
any revenue received from any lines leading up to or beyond the particular line
extension covered by contract. All decisions in connection with the manner of
installation of any extension and maintenance thereof shall remain in the
exclusive control of the City, and such extension shall be the property of the
City, and no other person shall have any right, title, or interest therein.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                           91.06 Meter Costs
91.02 Water Use Metered                 91.07 Meter Repairs
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception 91.08 Right of Entry
91.04 Location of Meters                91.09 Meter Testing
91.05 Meter Setting                     91.10 Construction Use
 
91.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02   WATER USE METERED.
   All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished by
the City and installed by the City.
91.03   FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
   Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Superintendent. No other
open, unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there shall
be no valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which
must be sealed open.
91.04   LOCATION OF METERS.
   All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter
readers and repairmen and protected from freezing.
91.05   METER SETTING.
   The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for
proper setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the
meter. Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent and
shall be of a design and construction approved by the Superintendent.
91.06   METER COSTS.
   The full cost of any meter larger than that required for a single-family
residence shall be paid to the City by the property owner or customer prior to
the installation of any such meter by the City, or, at the sole option of the
City, the property owner or customer may be required to purchase and install
such meter in accordance with requirements established by the City. A $250.00
charge shall be made by the general contractor on all new construction to cover
the cost of the remote water meter installation and water use during the
construction. This charge is due and payable at the time the building permit is
issued. The contractor is required to keep a yard valve or curb box in
operating condition at all times during construction. At the time of final
inspection, the temporary service shall be disconnected and the water shut off
until the first occupancy occurs.
91.07   METER REPAIRS.
   Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Superintendent shall have it repaired. If it is found that damage to the meter
has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property
owner, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the property owner shall be
liable for the cost of repairs.
91.08   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Superintendent shall be permitted to enter the premises of any customer
at any reasonable time to read, remove, or change a meter.
91.09   METER TESTING.
   The Superintendent or any designee shall make a test of the accuracy of any
water meter at any time when requested in writing. If it is found that such
meter overruns to the extent of five percent or more, the cost of the test
shall be paid by the City and a refund shall be made to the customer for
overcharges collected since the last known date of accuracy, but not more than
five percent of the total water bill and not for a longer period than three
months. If the meter is found to be accurate or slow or less than five percent
fast, the user shall pay a testing charge of $25.00. Such test will be made
without charge to the customer if the meter has not been tested within 12
months preceding the requested test; otherwise, a charge of $25.00 will be
made, and then only if the test indicates meter accuracy within the limits of
two percent.
91.10   CONSTRUCTION USE.
   Water for building or construction purposes will be furnished, only after
suitable deposit has been made, and the amount determined by the City depending
upon the size of the construction work contemplated. Water so supplied shall be
discharged through a hose or pipe directly upon material to be wet, or into a
barrel or other container, and in no case upon the ground or into or through a
ditch or trench, and all use of water by other than the applicant or use of
water for any purpose or upon any premises not so stated or described in the
application must be prevented by the applicant, or water service may be
discontinued without notice.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges           92.06 Lien for Nonpayment
92.02 Rates For Service         92.07 Lien Exemption
92.03 Rates Outside the City    92.08 Lien Notice
92.04 Billing for Water Service 92.09 Customer Deposits
92.05 Service Discontinued
 
92.01   SERVICE CHARGES.
   Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon
use of water as determined by meters provided for in Chapter 91. Each location,
building, premises, or connection shall be considered a separate and distinct
customer whether owned or controlled by the same person or not.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02   RATES FOR SERVICE.
   Water service shall be furnished at the following monthly rates within the
City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Rates.
      A.   Minimum rates and charges for water services based upon two thousand
gallons monthly (2,000) shall be as follows:
 
Meter Size (in inches) Monthly Billing
5/8                    $20.96
1                      $25.49
2                      $28.89
3                      $32.29
4                      $34.56
      B.   Rates and charges over the minimum shall be three dollars and
twenty-one cents ($3.40) per 1,000 gallons.
      C.   Water Project Fee. In addition to the fees and rates enumerated
above and within these ordinances, there shall be a $6.00 per month charge for
all business and residential property owners within the City limits of Elk Run
Heights. This fee shall either be billed as an additional fee on the water
service bill or sent as a bill to any owners who do not currently receive any
water service bill.
(Paragraphs A-C – Ord. 300 – Jul. 25 Supp.)
   2.   Water Project Fee. In addition to the fees and rates enumerated above
and within these ordinances, there shall be a $6.00 per month charge for all
business and residential property owners within the City limits of Elk Run
Heights. This fee shall either be billed as an additional fee on the water
service bill or sent as a bill to any owners who do not currently receive any
water service bill.
(Section 92.02 – Ord. 290 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
92.03   RATES OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   Water service shall be provided to any customer located outside the
corporate limits of the City which the City has agreed to serve at the same
rates provided in Section
92.02. No such customer, however, will be served unless the customer shall have
signed a service contract agreeing to be bound by the ordinances, rules, and
regulations applying to water service established by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 and 384.84)
92.04   BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
   Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable
in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Bills Issued. The Clerk shall prepare and issue bills for combined
service accounts on or before the end of each month.
   2.   Bills Payable. Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable at the office of the Clerk by the 15th day of the same month.
   3.   Late Payment Penalty. Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent. A late payment penalty of 10 percent of the amount due shall be
added to each delinquent bill.
   4.   User Charge System Review Procedures.  The Council will review the user
charge systems annually to ensure that the system generates adequate revenues
to pay the cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement of water,
sewer, and solid wastes services. Any adjustment to user charge rates shall be
done by ordinance. If no increase is warranted, the existing rates shall remain
in effect until further review.
92.05   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
   Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued or disconnected
in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Notice. The Clerk shall notify each delinquent customer that service
will be discontinued or disconnected if payment of the combined service
account, including late payment charges, is not received by the date specified
in the notice of delinquency. Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the
customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred and shall inform
the customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the
opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance or disconnection.
   2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
   3.   Hearing. If a hearing is requested by noon of the day preceding the
shut off, the Mayor shall conduct an informal hearing and shall make a
determination as to whether the discontinuance or disconnection is justified.
The customer has the right to appeal the Mayor’s decision to the Council, and
if the Council finds that discontinuance or disconnection is justified, then
such discontinuance or disconnection shall be made, unless payment has been
received.
   4.   Fees. A fee of $25.00 shall be charged before service is restored to a
delinquent customer, if done so during regular weekday business hours. After 4:
00 p.m. and on weekends, a fee of $50.00 shall be charged before service is
restored to a delinquent customer. No fee shall be charged for the usual or
customary trips in the regular changes in occupancies of property.
92.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.07   LIEN EXEMPTION.  
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
   2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply
to the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, stormwater drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
   3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
   4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for
nonpayment of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section
shall not be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or
manufactured home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is
owned by a tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home
community and the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or
manager is the account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the
tenant is responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed
to the account holder.
92.08   LIEN NOTICE.
   A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09   CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
   There shall be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a deposit intended to guarantee the payment of bills for service.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
 
Meter Size (in inches) Monthly Billing
5/8                    $37.00
1                      $45.00
2                      $51.00
3                      $57.00
4                      $61.00
 
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.06 Service Outside the City
95.02 Definitions               95.07 Right of Entry
95.03 Superintendent            95.08 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.09 Special Penalties
95.05 Sewer Connection Required 95.10 Abandoned Sewer Lines
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to
Sanitary Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment
and disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter or
parts per million.
   2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
   4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and
sewage.
   5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
   6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
   7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial
manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the
public sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
   9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
   11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution.
   12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial waste.
   14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage.
   17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees
levied against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of
said customers by said sewer system.
   20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   22.   “Superintendent” means PeopleService, Inc., or any authorized agent or
representative.
   23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable
by laboratory filtering.
   24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
   2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
   3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections, and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
   1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
   2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
   4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
   6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City,
or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   1.   The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located, or may in the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer,
are hereby required to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet
facilities therein and a building sewer connecting such facilities directly
with the proper public sewer, and to maintain the same, all in accordance with
the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters. Such compliance is to be
completed within 60 days after date of official notice from the City to do so
provided that said public sewer is located within 200 feet of the property line
of such owner and is of such design as to receive and convey by gravity such
sewage as may be conveyed to it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin
the date of official notice to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
   2.   New Construction. Sewer service lines of 100 feet or longer from the
building edge to the City main shall be required to have a second clean-out
access positioned approximately half-way in the length of the service line to
allow for proper access to cleaning out stoppage.
95.06   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
95.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.08   USE OF EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
   The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
   1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section 95.04, shall be served
by the City with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
   2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation
of this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
95.10   ABANDONED SEWER LINES.  
   When an existing sanitary sewer service is abandoned or a service is renewed
with a new connection in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains
shall be capped off and made absolutely watertight.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                           96.06 Interceptors Required
96.02 Permit Fee and Connection Charge 96.07 Sewer Tap
96.03 Plumber or Contractor Required   96.08 Inspection Required
96.04 Excavations                      96.09 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.05 Connection Requirements          96.10 Abatement of Violations
 
96.01   PERMIT.  
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the City. The application for the permit
shall set forth the following information:
   1.   The location and description of the property to be connected with the
sewer system.
   2.   The purpose for which the sewer is to be used.
   3.   Plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent.
The permit shall require the owner to complete construction and connection of
the building sewer to the public sewer within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit, except that when a property owner makes sufficient showing that due to
conditions beyond the owner’s control or peculiar hardship, such time period is
inequitable or unfair, an extension of time within which to comply with the
provisions herein may be granted. Any sewer connection permit may be revoked at
any time for a violation of these chapters.
96.02   PERMIT FEE.
   The person who makes the application shall pay a fee to the Clerk to cover
the cost of issuing the permit and supervising, regulating, and inspecting the
work. Any installation not passing code shall be charged a reinspection for of
$50.00.
   1.   Residential Permit   $100.00
   2.   Industrial Permit   $150.00
96.03   PLUMBER OR CONTRACTOR REQUIRED.
   All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer
shall be made by a contractor or State-licensed plumber.
96.04   EXCAVATIONS.
   All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation
of a building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of Chapter 135 of this Code of
Ordinances.
96.05   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
   1.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted by
the owner and observed by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
   2.   Separate Building Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands
at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway. In such cases the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   3.   Installation. The installation and connection of the building sewer to
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code
and applicable rules and regulations of the City. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   4.   Water Lines. When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service. The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer.
   5.   Size. Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
   6.   Alignment and Grade. All building sewers shall be laid to a straight
line to meet the following:
      A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot.
      B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot.
      C.   Minimum velocity of two feet per second with the sewer half full.
      D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the
written approval of the Superintendent and shall be made only with approved
fittings.
   7.   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth of cover above the
sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
   8.   Sewage Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer. Check valves must be installed.
   9.   Pipe Specifications. Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws,
splits, or breaks. Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code
except that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public
sewer, shall comply with the current edition of one of the following:
      A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
      B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74.
      C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
      D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
   10.   Bearing Walls. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within
three feet of any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened.
   11.   Jointing. Fittings, type of joint and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Superintendent. Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
   12.   Unstable Soil. No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is exposed
when crossing any watercourse. Where an old watercourse must of necessity be
crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement, cast iron
soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete shall be
required for such crossings. Such encasement shall extend at least six inches
on all sides of the pipe. The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe shall rest on
firm, solid material at either end.
   13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space. No connection for any
residence, business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made
unless the basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab
or crawl space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to
the foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled. The backfill
shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from the
foundation. Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the first floor
is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the
plug shall be sealed by the Superintendent. Any accumulation of water in any
excavation or basement during construction and prior to connection to the
sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other than draining into the sanitary
sewer.
96.06   INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil, sludge, and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and
service stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities
when, in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand, or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required,
such interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
   1.   Design and Location. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
as specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Superintendent,
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight.
   3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at
the owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at
all times.
96.07   SEWER TAP.
   Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the
“Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent. The public sewer shall be tapped with
a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer shall be
glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the sewer. At no
time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a manhole unless
special written permission is received from the Superintendent and in
accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is approved.
96.08   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Superintendent. As soon as all pipe
work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and
before any backfilling is done, the Superintendent shall be notified and the
Superintendent shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material;
no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or trenches filled until after
the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Superintendent refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the
work.
96.09   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
96.10   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon
the private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which
construction or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this
chapter, shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date
of official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Stormwater               97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                               Superintendent
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01   STORMWATER.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
that are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02   SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
   Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer
may be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where
such discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but
any permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to
be in the best interests of the sewer system.
97.03   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel
oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides (CN) in excess of two milligrams per
liter as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
   3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities
or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
      A.   Any waters or wastes: (i) having a five-day biochemical oxygen
demand greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or (ii) containing more
than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or (iii) having an
average daily flow greater than two percent of the average sewage flow of the
City, shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent.
      B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to: (i) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million
by weight; or (ii) reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by
weight; or (iii) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters
or wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
   1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150º (65º).
   2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
   3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32º and 150º (0º to 65º).
   4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to
such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than
one-half inch in any dimension.
   5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
   6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
   7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste
or odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may
be established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-
life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
   9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
      A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
      B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
   11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
   12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration, or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
   13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are
not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes
employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage
treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
   1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
   2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
   3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
   4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling
and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under
the provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06   SPECIAL FACILITIES.
   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary
treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at the owner’s expense.
97.07   CONTROL MANHOLES.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
97.08   TESTING OF WASTES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.05 Discharge Restrictions
98.02 When Required               98.06 Maintenance of System
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.04 Permit Required             98.08 Disposal of Septage
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
   When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
Section 95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are
employed shall be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and
disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(567 IAC 69.1[3 and 4])
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and
disposal system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of
Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch,
stream, pond, lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the
surface of the ground.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
   The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall
operate and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no
expense to the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an
on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
   No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01 Sewer Service Charges Required 99.05 Lien for Nonpayment
99.02 Special Rates                  99.06 Deposit
99.03 Private Water Systems          99.07 Special Agreements Permitted
99.04 Payment of Bills                
 
99.01   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.
   Each customer shall pay sewer service charges for the use of and for the
service supplied by the municipal sanitary sewer as follows:
   1.   Class I. Residential Users. Single family contributors forty-two
dollars and forty-four cents ($42.44) per month for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   2.   Class II. Light Commercial/Institutional Users. Nonresidential users
who contribute between zero and five thousand gallons per month of less than or
equal to normal domestic strength wastewater, forty-two dollars and forty-four
cents ($42.44) per month for operation and maintenance, including replacement.
   3.   Class III. Medium Commercial/Institutional Users. Nonresidential users
who contribute between five thousand and seventeen thousand gallons per month
of less than or equal to normal domestic strength wastewater, sixty-three
dollars and sixty-five cents ($63.65) per month for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   4.   IV Class.
      A.   Heavy commercial and industrial users (nonresidential users who
contribute more than seventeen thousand gallons per month).
      B.   Each contributor shall pay a minimum charge of twenty-nine dollars
and seventy-one cents ($29.71). In addition, each contributor shall pay a user
rate of three dollars and thirteen cents ($3.13) per thousand gallons per month
of water or wastewater as determined in Subsection D(3) of this section.
      C.   For industrial and commercial contributors, user charges shall be
based on water meter readings for the current month. If a commercial or
industrial contributor has a consumptive use of water, or in some other manner
uses water which is not returned to the wastewater works, the user charge for
that contributor may be based on a wastewater meter or separate water meter
installed and maintained at the contributor’s expense, and in a manner
acceptable to the City.
      D.   The wastewater superintendent shall identify those contributors
whose wastewater significantly exceeds the strength of normal domestic
wastewater and shall thereafter, through regular sampling and testing, monitor
the strength and volume of the wastewater.
   5.   Class V. Heavy Institutional Users (Schools). Four hundred and forty
dollars and twenty-seven cents ($440.27) per month for operation and
maintenance, including replacement.
   6.   Capital Project Fee. A capital project shall be charged per month and
shall be required of any person or business or corporation in addition to the
user rates established in Section
99.01 of this chapter. The capital project fee shall be deposited in an account
for the specific purpose of principal and interest payments. The capital
project fee charge shall be effective at the following billing cycle after
approval and will be revised yearly based on principal and interest charges due
that fiscal year.
PAYMENT YEAR CP FEE ON UB
PAYMENT YEAR CP FEE ON UB
FY24         31.19
FY25         31.15
FY26         31.29
FY27         31.22
FY28         31.14
FY29         31.23
FY30         31.13
FY31         31.19
FY32         31.24
FY33         31.28
FY34         31.11
FY35         31.11
FY36         31.29
FY37         31.25
FY38         31.20
FY39         31.14
FY40         31.24
FY41         31.13
FY42         31.20
FY43         31.24
FY44         31.26
FY45         31.25
FY46         31.23
FY47         31.18
FY48         31.11
FY49         31.20
FY50         31.26
FY51         31.12
 
(Section 99.01 – Ord. 301 – Jul. 25 Supp.)
99.02   SPECIAL RATES.
   Where, in the judgment of the Superintendent and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer charges
provided in Section
99.01 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the customer, a
special rate shall be proposed by the Superintendent and submitted to the
Council for approval by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.03   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
   Customers whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay
sewer charges based upon the water used as determined by the City either by an
estimate agreed to by the customer or by metering the water system at the
customer’s expense. Any negotiated or agreed-upon sales or charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.04   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Sewer service may be discontinued or
disconnected in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
99.05   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for sewer
service charges to the premises. Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and
delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and
shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the
same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.06   DEPOSIT.
   There shall be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a $80.00 deposit intended to guarantee the payment of bills for service.
No interest shall be paid on deposits. The Following shall not be required to
post a deposit:
   1.   Any municipal or political or governmental subdivision of the State of
Iowa;
   2.   Present customer accounts which do not have a deposit on file.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.07   SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
   No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
CHAPTER 100
SUMP PUMP AND GROUNDWATER STANDARDS
 
100.01 Intent                                100.06 Removal of Connections
100.02 Definitions                           100.07 Surcharge
100.03 Prohibited Water                      100.08 Nuisance
100.04 Sump Pump and Rigid Pipe Installation 100.09 Penalty
100.05 Inspections                           100.10 Hearing
 
100.01   INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to establish rules and regulations governing
the installation, use, and discharge of sump pumps or other groundwater
conveyance systems, and to establish the penalty structures required to enforce
said rules and regulations. The rules and regulations governing the use of sump
pumps or other groundwater conveyance systems are being established:
   1.   To set forth uniform requirements for the installation, use, and
discharge of sump pumps or groundwater conveyance systems.
   2.   To prevent the introduction of clean surface water, including but not
limited to, water from roof or cellar drains, springs, basement sump pumps, and
French drains.
   3.   Because the City finds it essential to the maintenance of health,
minimization of damage to property, and to maintain and preserve the life and
capacity of the municipal infrastructure.
100.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Conveyance systems” means any structures or facilities designed to
collect, convey, or discharge groundwater, including, but not limited to,
downspouts, sump pumps, and French drains.
   2.   “Groundwater” means stormwater, surface water, groundwater, well water,
or water from industrial or commercial air conditioning systems (residential
properties may have a 20 gallon per day maximum discharge from air conditioning
systems).
   3.   “Property owner” means the legal or equitable owner of real property
located within the City.
   4.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   5.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
100.03   PROHIBITED WATER.
   1.   It is unlawful for any owner, occupant, or user of any premises to
direct into or allow any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, well water, or
water from industrial or commercial air conditioning systems to drain into the
wastewater collection system. No rainspout or other form of surface drainage,
and no foundation drainage or sump pump, shall be connected or discharged into
any wastewater collection system.
   2.   Any new or existing construction in which a sump and pump have been or
will be installed shall be required to install, inside the structure, a rigid
pipe connection discharge in accordance with this chapter. It is unlawful to
maintain any connection with the sanitary sewer carrying roof water,
groundwater, surface water, or any other natural precipitation.
100.04   SUMP PUMP AND RIGID PIPE INSTALLATION.
   1.   Where a sump pit exists in any building, it shall have a pump
permanently installed with a discharge pipe through the outside foundation wall
of the building with rigid pipe (plastic, copper, or galvanized) one and one-
half inch inside diameter minimum, without valves or quick connections that
would alter the path of discharge. The discharge shall be directed away from
the foundation wall.
   2.   The surface discharge point shall be located no closer than four feet
from the curb or property line. No discharge shall be directed so as to impact
neighboring properties.
100.05   INSPECTIONS.
   1.   Every person owning real estate that discharges into the City’s
sanitary sewer system shall allow an employee or representative of the City to
inspect the buildings to confirm that there is no sump pump or other prohibited
discharge into the sanitary sewer system. Further, every person shall allow
said employee access to test (by televised scoping or otherwise) the sewer
service line. In lieu of having the City inspect the property, any resident may
furnish a certificate from a licensed plumber approved by the City, certifying
that said resident’s property is in compliance with this section. Any person
refusing to allow his or her property to be inspected or refusing to furnish a
plumber’s certificate within 14 days of the date the City employees are denied
admittance to the property, shall immediately become subject to the surcharge
hereinafter provided for. Any owner or property found to violate this section
shall make all necessary changes to comply with this section and furnish proof
of the changes to the City within 90 days from the date the violation was
identified.
   2.   The City is directed and authorized to compile a list of sump pumps in
existing structures within the City. The purpose of this list will be to
evaluate and monitor the discharge from sump pumps; to ensure that the
discharge shall not infiltrate the sanitary sewer system or otherwise create a
nuisance. The City is further directed and authorized to conduct routine
inspections of every existing structure within the City connected to the
sanitary sewer system to determine whether or not the structure has a sump pump
and, if so, whether the discharge from this sump pump is in conformity with
this Code of Ordinances.
   3.   When ownership of any home or other building is transferred, the
building must have a reinspection completed and passed within 90 days of the
date of transfer. The new property owner is responsible for contacting the City
to schedule such. Property owners may meet the requirements of this section by
contracting with a licensed plumber who is authorized to do business in the
City to perform such inspection and return a completed inspection form to the
City. Such inspection, whether performed by the City or by a licensed plumber
hired by the property owners, shall be completed and the City notified of the
results within the 90 day period.
100.06   REMOVAL OF CONNECTIONS.
   Any property owner who previously made any connection or installation in
violation of this chapter shall immediately remove such connection or correct
such an installation. If not removed or corrected within 90 calendar days after
notice of the violation, the City shall impose a surcharge in the amount
provided by this chapter. The time frame for making corrections may be extended
upon the approval by the City for up to 120 days for cause, beyond the initial
90-day period. In any event, all connections and proper sump connections must
be completed no later than July 1, 2021. The owner of a building or premises
found to not be in conformance with this chapter during periodic re-inspections
shall be subjected to a surcharge as provided herein starting from the previous
date of inspection.
100.07   SURCHARGE.
   Any property owner who fails to timely comply with the requirement of
Sections
100.05 or
100.06 of this chapter shall be subject to, and pay, a monthly surcharge on the
property owner’s utility bill. This surcharge is intended to offset the added
costs associated with having to treat and collect clear water unnecessarily
when the status of a property’s connection to the sanitary sewer system cannot
be ascertained, or when the property owner has failed to timely disconnect any
discharge of storm water to the City sanitary sewer system. This surcharge
shall commence on the first day of the month following the expiration of the
90-day period set in Sections
100.05 and
100.06 of this chapter, or the deadline set in Section
100.06 of this chapter, as applicable, when the property owner has either
failed to timely allow for an inspection or has failed to timely correct any
illegal connections to the City sanitary sewer system. Such surcharge shall
continue to be imposed on the property owner’s utility bill for as long as the
property owner continues to own the property without complying with the
requirements of this chapter. If ownership of property transfers prior to
coming into compliance with this chapter, the new property owner shall receive
notices and the opportunity to correct noncompliance, as provided in Sections
100.05 and
100.06, prior to a surcharge being imposed on the new property owner.
   A surcharge of $100.00 per month is hereby imposed on every sewer bill to
property owners for the following conditions:
   1.   Not in compliance with this chapter.
   2.   Refusal of property inspection.
100.08   NUISANCE.
   The citizens of the City may have an option to connect their sump pump
discharge line to a City storm sewer or drainage tile, if available, and if, in
the determination of the City, it is necessary because the discharge from the
sump pump is creating a nuisance or hazardous situation.
100.09   PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the City by
reason of such violation. The City will also retain any and all civil remedies
including, but not limited to, injunction or abatement actions to remedy a
violation.
100.10   HEARING.
   Any person aggrieved by any provision of this chapter must request a hearing
before the City Council within 30 days following an inspection or the
imposition of the surcharge. The finding of the City Council shall be final.
Any person aggrieved by the actions of the City Council under the provisions of
this chapter may seek such relief through the Courts as provided by law.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Purpose                           105.07 Littering Prohibited
105.02 Definitions                       105.08 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required        105.09 Waste Storage Containers
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard            105.10 Prohibited Practices
105.05 Open Burning Restricted           105.11 Sanitary Disposal Project
                                         Designated
105.06 Separation of Yard Waste Required  
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety, and welfare as may
result from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from
public and private places.
   2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
   3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving, and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all
offal, excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage.
The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(567 IAC 20.2)
   6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
   7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating, or transacting business in
any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
   8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste, and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple-
family dwelling.
   10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes, and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(567 IAC 20.2)
   11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible
and non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities. Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of
the Code of Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
      A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
      B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
      C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
      D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
      E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
      F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A
of the Code of Iowa.
      G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
         (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
         (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing
to ensure production is not interrupted.
   15.   “Toxic and hazardous waste” means waste materials, including (but not
limited to) poisons, pesticides, herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological
waste, flammable or explosive materials, and similar harmful waste that
requires special handling and that must be disposed of in such a manner as to
conserve the environment and protect the public health and safety.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   16.   “Yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden
waste, brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all
refuse accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any
such accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days
shall be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04   HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises,
improved or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation or fire hazard.
105.05   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall allow, cause, or permit open burning of combustible
materials where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air
without passing through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is
permitted in the following circumstances:
(567 IAC 23.2 and 100.2)
   1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape
waste, for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an
officially declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of
any structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“a”)
   2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings
at a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in
compliance with the rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“b”)
   3.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“c”)
   4.   Landscape Waste. The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises. However, the burning of landscape waste produced
in clearing, grubbing, and construction operations shall be limited to areas
located at least one-fourth mile from any building inhabited by other than the
landowner or tenant conducting the open burning. Rubber tires shall not be used
to ignite landscape waste.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“d”)
   5.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources. Rubber
tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“e”)
   6.   Residential Waste. Backyard burning of residential waste at dwellings
of four-family units or less.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“f”)
   7.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide
training of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided
that the training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by
the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“g”)
   8.   Pesticide Containers and Seed Corn Bags. The disposal by open burning
of paper or plastic pesticide containers (except those formerly containing
organic forms of beryllium, selenium, mercury, lead, cadmium, or arsenic) and
seed corn bags resulting from farming activities occurring on the premises if
burned in accordance with rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“h”)
   9.   Agricultural Structures. The open burning of agricultural structures if
in accordance with rules and limitations established by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“i”])
   10.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of
a demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“j”)
   11.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[2])
105.06   SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
   All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other
solid waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted or burned on the
premises.
105.07   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.08   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 100.2)
(567 IAC 102.13[2] and 400 IAC 27.14[2])
105.09   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Container Specifications. Waste storage containers shall comply with
the following specifications:
      A.   Residential. Residential waste containers shall be provided by the
hauler.
      B.   Commercial. Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or
renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse accumulates
and where its storage in portable containers as required by the City is
impractical, shall maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the City.
   2.   Storage of Containers. Residential solid waste containers shall be
stored upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers shall
be stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel. All owners of residential and
commercial premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and
yard waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around
neighboring yards and streets.
   3.   Location of Containers for Collection. Containers for the storage of
solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed outdoors at some easily
accessible place by the owner or occupant of the premises served.
   4.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers that are not
in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
105.10   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste
containers not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of
such containers.
   2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
   3.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed
for high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
   4.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out
for collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
105.11   SANITARY DISPOSAL PROJECT DESIGNATED.
   Sanitary landfill facilities designated by the Council shall be the official
“Public Sanitary Disposal Project” for the disposal of solid waste produced or
originating within the City.
[The next page is 667]
 
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.06 Right of Entry
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.07 Contract Requirements
106.03 Loading                 106.08 Collection Fees
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.09 Lien for Nonpayment
106.05 Bulky Rubbish
 
106.01   COLLECTION SERVICE.
   The City shall provide by contract for the collection of solid waste, except
bulky rubbish as provided in Section 106.05, from residential premises only.
The owners or operators of commercial, industrial, or institutional premises
shall provide for the collection of solid waste produced upon such premises.
106.02   COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be cleaned
to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be maintained in
good repair.
(567 IAC 104.9)
106.03   LOADING.
   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any
solid waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will
not fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or
loss of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04   FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once
each week and from commercial, industrial, and institutional premises as
frequently as may be necessary, but not less than once each week.
106.05   BULKY RUBBISH.
   Bulky rubbish that is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal
manner of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request in
accordance with procedures established by the Council.
106.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property
for the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter;
however, solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other
residential buildings.
106.07   CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting,
processing or disposing of solid waste from residential premises for the City
without first entering into a contract with the City. This section does not
prohibit an owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises
owned, occupied or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of
properly in an approved sanitary disposal project. Furthermore, a contract is
not required for the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material
from grading or excavation activities, provided that all such materials are
conveyed in tight vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained
that none of the material being transported is spilled upon any public right-
of-way.
106.08   COLLECTION FEES.
   The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449 [Iowa 1970])
   1.   Garbage Collection and Disposal Schedule of Fees. The fees for solid
waste collection and disposal service, used or available, are:
      A.   For each single-family residential premises, $13.91 per month.
      B.   For each unit of a two-family dwelling, $27.82 per month.
      C.   A deposit of $27.00 shall be required with all new utility
applicants.
   2.   Yard Waste Collection and Disposal Schedule of Fees.
      A.   All customers shall be charged $.50 per month, to be included on
utility billing.
      B.   A deposit of $1.00 shall be required with all new utility
applicants.
      C.   Commercial businesses will be exempt from this charge and service.
   3.   Payment of Bills. All fees are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Solid waste collection service may be
discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
   4.   Utility Rate Review. The Council will review the current fees, rates,
and charges for sanitary disposal of garbage and refuse, and yard waste
disposal as needed, and by ordinance amend those fees, rates, and charges.
106.09   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for solid
waste collection and disposal. Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and shall be certified
by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
 
110.01 Franchise Granted            110.08 Relocation Reimbursement
110.02 Rights and Privileges        110.09 Indemnification
110.03 Pipes and Mains              110.10 Information
110.04 Construction and Maintenance 110.11 Applicable Regulations
110.05 Excavations                  110.12 Franchise Fee
110.06 Utility Easements            110.13 Management Fees
110.07 Relocation Not Required      110.14 Termination
 
110.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.  
   There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
(hereinafter called “Company”) and to its successors and assigns, the right and
non-exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain, and operate in
the City of Elk Run Heights, Iowa (hereinafter called the “City”), a gas
distribution system, to furnish natural gas along, under, and upon the right-
of-way, streets, avenues, alleys, and public places to serve customers within
and without the City and to furnish and sell natural gas to the City and its
inhabitants. For the term of this franchise, the Company is granted the right
of eminent domain, the exercise of which is subject to City Council approval
upon application by the Company. This franchise shall be effective for a 25-
year period from and after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter. † 5
 
Notes
5 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 272, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on April 13, 2021.
110.02   RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa 2021, or as subsequently amended
or changed.
110.03   PIPES AND MAINS.
   Company shall have the right to excavate in any public street for the
purpose of laying, relaying, repairing, or extending gas pipes, mains,
conduits, and other facilities provided that the same shall be so placed as not
to unreasonably interfere with any above or below-ground utility services or
facilities which have been or may hereafter be located by or under authority of
the City.
110.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The Company shall, excluding facilities located in private easements
(whether titled in Company exclusively or in Company and other entities), in
accordance with Iowa law, including Company’s tariff on file with and made
effective by the Iowa Utilities Board as may subsequently be amended
(“Tariff”), at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its existing
facilities or equipment in, on, over, or under any public street or alley in
the City in such a manner as the City may reasonably require for the purposes
of facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or repair of the
street or alley. Relocation expenses for other hard surfaces, including
pedestrian and non-motorized vehicle pathways, will be paid by the City. If the
City has a reasonable alternative route for the street, alley, or public
improvements, or an alternative construction method, which would not cause the
relocation of the Company installations, the City shall select said alternative
route or construction method.  The City shall be responsible for surveying and
staking the right-of-way for City projects that require the Company to relocate
Company facilities. If requested, the City shall provide, at no cost to the
Company, copies of its relocation plan and profile and cross section drawings.
If tree and vegetation removal must be completed by the City as part of the
City’s project and are necessary whether or not utility facilities must be
relocated, the City, at its own cost, shall be responsible for said removals.
If the timing of the tree and vegetation removal does not coincide with the
Company facilities relocation schedule and Company must remove trees and
vegetation that are included in the City’s portion of the project, the City
shall either remove the material at its cost or reimburse the Company for the
expenses incurred to remove said vegetation or trees. If project funds from a
source other than the City are available to pay for the relocation of utility
facilities, the City shall attempt to secure said funds and provide them to the
Company to compensate the Company for the costs of relocation.
110.05   EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys, and public places for
the installation of gas pipes, conduits, or apparatus, Company shall not
unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets and shall replace the surface,
restoring it to the condition as existed immediately prior to excavation.
Company agrees any replacement of road surface shall conform to current City
code regarding its depth and composition. The Company shall not be required to
restore or modify public right-of-way, sidewalks, or other areas in or adjacent
to the Company project to a condition superior to its immediate previously
existing condition or to a condition exceeding its previously existing
condition to the extent any alterations are required for the City to comply
with City, State, or federal rules, regulations, or laws.
110.06   UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   The City’s vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground, or public right-
of-way shall not deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain
existing facilities on, below, above, or beneath the vacated property. Prior to
the City abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley, or public ground
where the Company has facilities in the vicinity, the City shall provide
Company with not less than 60-days’ advance notice of the City’s proposed
action and, upon request, grant the Company a utility easement covering
existing and future facilities and activities. If the City fails to grant the
Company a utility easement for said facilities prior to abandoning or vacating
a street, avenue, alley, or public ground, the City shall, at its cost and
expense, obtain easements for the existing Company facilities.
110.07   RELOCATION NOT REQUIRED.
   The Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense,
Company facilities in the public right-of-way that have been relocated at
Company expense at the direction of the City at any time during the previous 10
years.
110.08   RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT.
   Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities as may be required hereunder,
if the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its existing facilities
or equipment in order to directly or indirectly facilitate the project of a
commercial or private developer or other non-public entity, City shall
reimburse or the City shall require the developer or non-public entity to
reimburse the Company for the cost of such relocation as a precondition to
relocation. The Company shall not be required to relocate in order to
facilitate such private project at its expense.
110.09   INDEMNIFICATION.
   The Company shall indemnify and save harmless the City from any and all
claims, suits, losses, damages, costs, or expenses, on account of injury or
damage to any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the
Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation, or
maintenance of the natural gas facilities authorized by this franchise;
provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend,
indemnify, and save harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent
arising from the negligence of the City, its officers, employees, or agents.
110.10   INFORMATION.
   Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project-
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in the public right-of-way, including documents,
maps, and other information in paper or electronic or other forms
(“Information”). The Company and City recognize the Information may in whole or
part be considered a confidential record under State or federal law or both.
Upon receipt of a request from a third party for information concerning
information about the Company’s facilities within the City, the City will
promptly submit same to Company. If the Company believes any of the information
requested constitutes a trade secret which may otherwise be protected from
public disclosure by State or federal law, or otherwise exempt from disclosure
under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission Critical Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to
18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes
and regulations may be amended from time to time, then the Company shall
provide the City with a written explanation of the basis for such assertion of
confidentiality or exemption from disclosure within 10 days.
110.11   APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   1.   The Company shall extend its mains and pipes and operate and maintain
the system in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities
Board (or its successors) and Iowa law.
   2.   During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish natural
gas in the quantity and quality consistent and in accordance with the
applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board the Company’s tariff made
effective by the Iowa Utilities Board (or its successors) and Iowa law.
   3.   All reasonable and proper police regulations shall be adopted and
enforced by the City for the protection of the facilities of the Company.
110.12   FRANCHISE FEE.
   A franchise fee of one percent is imposed upon, and shall be collected from,
the natural gas customers of the Company receiving service and located within
the corporate limits of the City. The franchise fee shall be imposed upon the
gross receipts, minus uncollectible accounts, generated from sales of natural
gas and distribution service with the following conditions.
   1.   The franchise fee shall be remitted by the Company to the City on or
before the last business day of the calendar quarter following the close of the
calendar quarter in which the franchise fee is charged.
   2.   City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed only once in
any 24-month period.
   3.   The Company will commence collecting franchise fees on or before the
first Company billing cycle of the first calendar month following 90 days of
receipt of information required of the City to implement the franchise fee,
including the City’s documentation of customer classes subject to or exempted
from City-imposed franchise fee.
   4.   City shall be solely responsible for identifying customer classes
subject to or exempt from paying the City-imposed franchise fee. The Company
shall have no obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in annexed
areas until and unless such ordinances have been provided to the Company by
certified mail. The Company shall commence collecting franchise fees in the
annexed areas no sooner than 60 days after receiving annexation ordinances from
the City.
   5.   Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or
refund any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted
to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees, or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers, the City shall
reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such
data or information.
110.13   MANAGEMENT FEES.
   Upon implementation of a franchise fee, the City shall not, pursuant to
Chapter 480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose or charge Company right-of-way
management fees for permits for Company construction, maintenance, repairs,
excavation, pavement cutting, or inspections of Company work sites and projects
or related matters.
110.14   TERMINATION.
   Either City or Company (“party”) may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non-breaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have 60 days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the non-
breaching party, and the parties agree upon a shorter or longer period for
cure. If the breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching
party may terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in
breach of this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or federal
law. A party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the
alleged breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other
party.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
111.01 Franchise Granted            111.09 Indemnification
111.02 Rights and Privileges        111.10 Vegetation Management
111.03 Poles and Wires              111.11 Information
111.04 Construction and Maintenance 111.12 Applicable Regulations
111.05 Excavation                   111.13 Franchise Fee
111.06 Utility Easements            111.14 Management Fees
111.07 Relocation Not Required      111.15 Binding
111.08 Relocation Reimbursement     111.16 Termination
 
111.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.  
   There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation
(hereinafter called “Company”), and its successors and assigns, the right and
non-exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain, and operate in
the City of Elk Run Heights, Iowa (hereinafter called the “City”), a system for
the transmission and distribution of electric energy and communications signals
along, under, over, and upon the streets, avenues, rights-of-way, and alleys to
serve customers within the City, and to furnish and sell electric energy to the
City and its inhabitants. The Company is granted the right to exercise of
powers of eminent domain, subject to City Council approval. This franchise
shall be effective for a 25-year period from and after the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this chapter.† 6
111.02   RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.  
   The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa 2021 or as subsequently amended
or changed.
 
Notes
6 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 271, adopting an electric franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on April 13, 2021.
111.03   POLES AND WIRES.  
   The Company shall have the right to erect all necessary poles and to place
thereon the necessary wires, fixtures, and accessories as well as to excavate
and bury conduits or conductors for the distribution of electric energy
and communications signals in and through the City, provided the same shall be
placed in accord with this franchise and City code regulations of the City
regarding the placement of structures, facilities, accessories, or other
objects in the right-of-way, including ordinances which assign corridors or
other placements to users of the right-of-way, and requirements which may be
adopted regarding separation of structures, facilities, accessories, or other
objects.
111.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.  
   The Company shall, excluding facilities located in private easements
(whether titled in Company exclusively or in Company and other entities), in
accordance with Iowa law including Company’s Tariff on file with, and made
effective by, the Iowa Utilities Board as may subsequently be amended
(“Tariff”), at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its existing
installations located in, on, over, or under the right-of-way of any public
street, right-of-way, or alley in the City in such a manner as the City may
require for the purposes of facilitating the construction, reconstruction,
maintenance, or repair of the street, right-of-way, or alley. If the City has a
reasonable alternative route for the street, right-of-way, or alley, or an
alternative construction method, which would not cause the relocation of
Company installations or would minimize the cost or expense of relocation of
Company installations, the City and Company shall work together to consider
said alternative route or construction method. The City shall, in the extension
or modification of streets and roads, make provision for the placement of
Company service lines and facilities on City-owned right-of-way without charge
to Company. In planning for the extension or modification of streets, the City
shall, to the extent practicable, design such changes to limit the need for
relocation of Company facilities. The City shall be responsible for surveying
and staking the right-of-way for City projects that require the Company to
relocate Company facilities. If requested, the City shall provide, at no cost
to the Company, copies of the relocation plan and profile and cross section
drawings. If vegetation and tree removals must be completed by the City as part
of the City’s project, and are necessary whether or not utility facilities must
be relocated, the City at its own cost shall be responsible for said removals.
If the timing of vegetation and tree removals does not coincide with Company’s
facilities relocation schedule and the Company must remove vegetation and trees
that are included in the City’s portion of the project, the City shall either
remove them or reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred to remove said
materials. If project funds from a source other than the City are available to
pay for the relocation of utility facilities, the City shall use its best
efforts to secure said funds and provide them to the Company to compensate the
Company for the costs of relocation.
111.05   EXCAVATIONS.  
   In making excavations in any streets, avenues, and public places for the
installation, maintenance, or repair of conductor, conduits, or the erection of
poles and wires or other appliances, the Company shall not unreasonably
obstruct the use of the streets. The Company, in making such excavations,
shall, if required by ordinance, obtain a City permit therefore and provide
City representatives with advance notice prior to the actual commencement of
the work, and shall comply with all provisions and requirements of the City in
its regulation of the use of City right-of-way in performing such work. In
emergencies which require immediate excavation, the Company may proceed with
the work without first applying for or obtaining the permit, provided, however,
that Company shall apply for and obtain the excavation permit as soon as
possible after commencing such emergency work. The Company shall comply with
all provisions and requirements of the City in its regulation of the use of
City right-of-way in performing such work. The Company shall comply with all
City ordinances regarding paving cuts, placement of facilities, and restoration
of pavement and other public infrastructure. The Company shall replace the
surface, restoring the condition as existed prior to the Company’s excavation,
but shall not be required to improve or modify the public right-of-way,
sidewalks, or other areas in or adjacent to the Company project to a condition
superior to its immediate previously existing condition. Company shall complete
all repairs in a timely manner. Company agrees any replacement of road surface
shall conform to current City ordinances regarding its depth and composition.
111.06   UTILITY EASEMENTS.  
   Vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground, or public right-of-way
shall not deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain existing
facilities and their replacements on, below, above, or beneath the vacated
property. Prior to the City abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley,
or public ground where the Company has electric facilities, the City shall
grant the Company a utility easement for said facilities.
111.07   RELOCATION NOT REQUIRED.  
   The Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense,
Company facilities in the public right-of-way that have been relocated at
Company expense at the direction of the City in the previous 10 years.
111.08   RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT.  
   Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities, if the City orders or requests
the Company to relocate its existing facilities or equipment in order to
directly facilitate a project for the primary benefit of a commercial or
private developer or other non-public entity, the City shall require the
developer or non-public entity to reimburse the Company for the cost of such
relocation as a precondition to relocation of its existing facilities or
equipment. The Company shall not be required to relocate in order to facilitate
such private project at its expense.
111.09   INDEMNIFICATION.  
   The Company shall indemnify, save, and hold harmless the City from any and
all claims, suits, losses, damages, costs, or expenses, on account of injury or
damage to any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the
Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation, or
maintenance of the electric facilities authorized by this franchise; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify, and save
harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent arising from the
negligence of the City, its officers, employees, or agents.
111.10   VEGETATION MANAGEMENT.  
   The pruning and removal of vegetation and trees shall be done in accordance
with current nationally accepted safety and utility industry standards and
federal and State law, rules, and regulations. The Company is authorized and
empowered to prune or remove, at Company expense, any tree extending into any
street, avenue, right-of-way, alley, public place, or public grounds to
maintain electric reliability, safety, to restore utility service, and to
prevent limbs, branches, or trunks from interfering with the wires and
facilities of the Company. The pruning and removal of vegetation and trees
shall be completed in accordance with nationally accepted safety and utility
standards, NSI Z133.1-2012, American National Standard for Arboricultural
Operations-Safety Requirements, and ANSI A300 (Part 1) – 2008 Pruning,
(Revision of ANSI A300 Part 1-2001) American National Standard for Tree, Shrub,
and other Woody Plant Management – Standard of Practices (Pruning) or
subsequent revisions to these standards, and City ordinances regarding the
pruning of trees that incorporate by reference that standard.
111.11   INFORMATION.  
   Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment which it owns, or over which
it has control, that is located in City right-of-way, including documents,
maps, and other information in paper or electronic or other forms
(“Information”). The Company and City recognize the Information may in whole or
part be considered a confidential record under State or federal law or both.
Therefore, City shall not release any Information without prior consent of the
Company and shall return the Information to Company upon request. City
recognizes that Company claims the Information may constitute a trade secret or
is otherwise protected from public disclosure by State or federal law on other
grounds, and agrees to retain the Information in its non-public files.
Furthermore, the City agrees that no documents, maps, or other Information
provided to the City by the Company shall be made available to the public or
other entities if such documents or Information are exempt from disclosure
under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission Critical Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to
18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes
and regulations may be amended from time to time. In the event any action at
law, in equity or administrative is brought against the City regarding
disclosure of any document which the Company has designated as a trade secret
or as otherwise protected from disclosure, the Company shall assume, upon
request of the City, the defense of said action, and reimburse the City any and
all costs, including attorney fees and penalties, to the extent allowed by law.
111.12   APPLICABLE REGULATIONS. 
   The Company shall construct, operate, and maintain its facilities in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board (or its
successors) and Iowa law. During the term of this franchise, the Company shall
furnish electric energy in the quantity and quality consistent with, and in
accordance with, the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board, the
Company’s tariff, and made effective by the Iowa Utilities Board (or its
successors) and Iowa law.
111.13   FRANCHISE FEE.  
   There is hereby imposed upon the customers a franchise fee of one percent
upon the gross revenues, minus uncollectible accounts, generated from sales of
electricity and distribution service, pursuant to the Tariff, by the Company
within the corporate limits of the City. The franchise fee shall be remitted by
the Company to the City on or before the last business day of the calendar
quarter following the close of the calendar quarter in which the franchise fee
is charged.
   1.   City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed only once in
any 24-month period.
   2.   Company will commence collecting franchise fees on or before the first
Company billing cycle of the first calendar month following 90 days of receipt
of information required of the City to implement the franchise fee, including
the City’s documentation of customer classes subject to, or exempted from,
City-imposed franchise fee.
   3.   City shall be solely responsible for identifying customer classes
subject to, or exempt from, paying the City imposed franchise fee. The Company
shall have no obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in annexed
areas until and unless such ordinances have been provided to the Company by
certified mail. The Company shall commence collecting franchise fees in the
annexed areas no sooner than 60 days after receiving annexation ordinances from
the City.
   4.   Company shall not, under any circumstances, be required to return or
refund any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted
to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers, the City shall
reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such
data or information.
111.14   MANAGEMENT FEES.
   The City shall not, pursuant to Chapter 480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose
or charge right-of-way management fees upon the Company or fees for permits for
Company construction, maintenance, repairs, excavation, pavement cutting, or
inspections of Company work sites and projects or related matters.
111.15   BINDING.  
   This franchise shall apply to and bind the City and Company and their
successors and assigns.
111.16   TERMINATION.
   Either City or Company (“party”) may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non-breaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have 60 days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the non-
breaching party and the parties agree upon a longer period for cure. If the
breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching party may
terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in breach of
this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or federal law. A
party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the alleged
breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other party.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for
sale, alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale,
possess, or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon the terms,
conditions, limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code
of Iowa, and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty
may be imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
   Upon receipt of an application for a retail alcohol license, the Clerk may
forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an investigation and
submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred in the
application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine if they
conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve an
application for a license for any premises that does not conform to the
applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a retail
alcohol license, shall endorse its approval or disapproval on the application,
and shall forward the application with the necessary fee and bond, if required,
to the Alcoholic Beverages Division.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
   A person holding a retail alcohol license and the person’s agents or
employees shall not do any of the following:
   1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
   2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and
6:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b)
   3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona
fide credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its
members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to
retail sales by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or
events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
   4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
   5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any
other beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
   6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
   7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
   8.   Keep on premises covered by a retail alcohol license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the
Alcoholic Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except
mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption.
However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the premises and are not
for immediate consumption may be consumed on the licensed premises, subject to
rules adopted by the Alcoholic Beverages Division.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
   9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
   10.   Allow any person other than the licensee or employees of the licensee
to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic liquor in any bottle or
other container that is designed for the transporting of such beverages, except
as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
   11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[21])
120.06   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement
devices possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa.
(Said devices are allowed only in premises with a retail alcohol license, as
specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
   1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical
or mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation
of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
   1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be
construed to include cigars.
   3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
   4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes, or offers for
sale for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
   5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement,
or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of
the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or
employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access
location.
   6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for
both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
   7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
   2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
   A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also
obtain a retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail
cigarette permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the
retailer shall not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
   A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of
Revenue or on forms made available or approved by the Department and
accompanied by the required fee shall be filed with the Clerk. Renewal
applications shall be filed at least five days prior to the last regular
meeting of the Council in June. If a renewal application is not timely filed,
and a special Council meeting is called to act on the application, the costs of
such special meeting shall be paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
   The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:    FEE:
July, August, or September     $ 75.00
October, November, or December $ 56.25
January, February, or March    $ 37.50
April, May, or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
   Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within 30
days of issuance of a permit.
121.06   REFUNDS.
   A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
   A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
   1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under
this subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period
of 14 days.
   2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
   3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
   5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22, and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
   Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by
the Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                  122.10 Time Restriction
122.02 Definitions              122.11 Revocation of License
122.03 License Required         122.12 Hearing
122.04 Application for License  122.13 Record and Determination
122.05 License Fees             122.14 Appeal
122.06 Bond Required            122.15 Effect of Revocation
122.07 License Issued           122.16 Rebates
122.08 Display of License       122.17 License Exemptions
122.09 License Not Transferable 122.18 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
 
122.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against
fraud, unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by
licensing and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
   2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions, or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
   3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases, or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out
of a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03   LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting, or in the business of a
transient merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein
provided is in violation of this chapter.
122.04   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application in writing shall be filed with the Clerk for a license under
this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name, permanent
and local address, and business address if any. The application shall also set
forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature
of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business, and the
length of time sought to be covered by the license. A background check is
required prior to issuance of a license. No application fee shall be required
for such license.
122.05   LICENSE FEES. The following license fees shall be paid to the Clerk
prior to the issuance of any license.
   1.   Solicitors. Each person actually soliciting (principal or agent), a fee
for the principal of $10.00 per year is required.
   2.   Peddlers or Transient Merchants.
      A.   For one day               $   5.00
      B.   For one week            $   10.00
      C.   For up to six months         $   20.00
      D.   For one year or major part thereof   $   25.00
122.06   BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.07   LICENSE ISSUED.
   If the Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be correct,
and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.
122.08   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10   TIME RESTRICTION.
   All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are
in force and effect only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
122.11   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Clerk may
revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:
   1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in
the application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
   2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
   3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has
conducted the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare,
safety, order, or morals.
   The Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at the licensee’s
local address. The notice shall contain particulars of the complaints against
the licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes allegedly violated,
and the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12   HEARING.
   The Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Clerk may proceed to a determination of
the complaint.
122.13   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
   The Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the Clerk
finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this chapter or
State law.
122.14   APPEAL.
   If the Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the Clerk shall make a
part of the record the reasons for such revocation or refusal. The licensee, or
the applicant, shall have a right to a hearing before the Council at its next
regular meeting. The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the
Clerk by a majority vote of the Council members present and the Clerk shall
carry out the decision of the Council.
122.15   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
   Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.16   REBATES.
   Any licensee, except in the case of a revoked license, shall be entitled to
a rebate of part of the fee paid if the license is surrendered before it
expires. The amount of the rebate shall be determined by dividing the total
license fee by the number of days for which the license was issued and then
multiplying the result by the number of full days not expired. In all cases, at
least $5.00 of the original fee shall be retained by the City to cover
administrative costs.
122.17   LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
   1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling
subscriptions to newspapers.
   2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
   3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
   4.   Students. Students representing the local school districts conducting
projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the school.
   5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
   6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses
or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.
   7.   Minor Businesses. An on-site transactional business traditionally
operated exclusively by a person under the age of 18, operated on an occasional
basis for no more than 89 calendar days in a calendar year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[13])
122.18   CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations
operating under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to
solicit money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of
Sections
122.04 and
122.05. All such organizations are required to submit to the Clerk in writing
the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought, names
and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the period
during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any commissions,
fees, or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount thereof. If
the Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or nonprofit
organization, the Clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license containing the
above information to the applicant. In the event the Clerk denies the
exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may appeal the
decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.14 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 123
HOUSE MOVERS
 
123.01 House Mover Defined 123.07 Permit Issued
123.02 Permit Required     123.08 Public Safety
123.03 Application         123.09 Time Limit
123.04 Bond Required       123.10 Removal by City
123.05 Insurance Required  123.11 Protect Pavement
123.06 Permit Fee          123.12 Overhead Wires
 
123.01   HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
   A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or
similar structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the
building or structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks,
dollies, or any other specialized moving equipment.
123.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building,
or similar structure to be moved.
123.03   APPLICATION.
   Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the Clerk
on a form provided by the City.. The application shall include:
   1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
   2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
   3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the Council, street
superintendent, and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the
shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04   BOND REQUIRED.
   The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
$5,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the
State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to
the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City
in the course of moving the building or structure.
123.05   INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that
the applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration
of the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
   1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
123.06   PERMIT FEE.
   A permit fee, as established by resolution of the Council, shall be payable
at the time of filing the application with the Clerk. A separate permit shall
be required for each house, building or similar structure to be moved.
123.07   PERMIT ISSUED.
   Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate,
and payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit.
123.08   PUBLIC SAFETY.
   At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag
persons at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to
the sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when
the building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or
public property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights
at the intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind, and ahead of
the building or structure.
123.09   TIME LIMIT.
   No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to
remain upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours
without having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.10   REMOVAL BY CITY.
   In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation
of Section
123.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and assess
the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
123.11   PROTECT PAVEMENT.
   It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.12   OVERHEAD WIRES.
   The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone,
cable television, and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.09 Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.04 Playing In                 135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling On Barricaded    135.12 Dumping of Snow
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.07 Washing Vehicles            
 
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
   It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy, or
carry away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard, or other
article or things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed
thereupon for the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places
in said street or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or
alley in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass, or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal, or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
   It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
   It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street
or alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed
thereon by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer, or
member of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
   It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale, or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley
for the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible
material in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   EXCAVATIONS.
   No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking,
or alley except in accordance with the following:
   1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first
obtaining a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with
the City and shall contain the following:
      A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
      B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is
to be made;
      C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
      D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
   2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner
that will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street.
   3.   Barricades, Fencing, and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing, and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing, or warning lights shall be paid to
the City by the permit holder/property owner.
   4.   Bond Required. The applicant shall post with the City a penal bond in
the minimum sum of $1,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue
such bonds in the State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for
any damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of administration of this section. In lieu
of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $1,000.00 may be filed with the City.
   5.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
      A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
      B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
   6.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
   7.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City.
Backfill shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved
street or alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and
approved by the City. The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City
with notice at least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is
desired.
   8.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder/property owner.
   9.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
   10.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
   11.   Permit Fee. A permit fee of $10.00 shall be payable at the time of
filing the application with the City. A separate permit shall be required for
each excavation.
   12.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and
insurance certificate, and payment of any required fees, a permit shall be
issued.
135.10   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way. † 7
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section
7 136.04 relating to property owner’s responsibility for maintenance of
  sidewalks.
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
   If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within seven to 14 days depending on infraction, the City may
perform the required action and assess the cost against the abutting property
for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be
thrown, pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the Business District it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
   The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.10 Failure to Repair or
                                             Barricade
136.02 Definitions                           136.11 Interference with Sidewalk
                                             Improvements
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.12 Encroaching Steps
Accumulations
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.13 Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                136.14 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.15 Defacing
136.07 Permit Required                       136.16 Debris on Sidewalks
136.08 Sidewalk Standards                    136.17 Merchandise Display
136.09 Barricades and Warning Lights         136.18 Sales Stands
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
   2.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
   3.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete
is placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
   4.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
   5.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
   6.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
   7.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling, or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
   8.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing
the surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
   The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations
promptly from sidewalks. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or
accumulations within a 24 hours, the City may do so and assess the costs
against the property owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to
remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b and e])
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The abutting property owner shall maintain in a safe and hazard-free
condition any sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb
lines or, in the absence of a curb, any sidewalk between the property line and
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to maintain
the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
136.05   CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
   If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d and e])
136.06   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
   The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any
street or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such
improvement to abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 384 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such
person has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work. A written application for such permit
shall be filed with the City.
136.08   SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
   Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
   1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the
construction and repair of sidewalks.
   2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
   3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-
drained soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact,
clean, coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage
is to be determined by the City.
   4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
   5.   Length, Width and Depth. Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
      A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four
inches thick, and each section shall be no more than four feet in length.
      B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to
the curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
      C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
   6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge
(edge nearest the abutting private property) on the property line, unless the
Council establishes a different distance due to special circumstances.
   7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
   8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
   9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the
curb.
   10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood
float finish.
   11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a
street, road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped
area shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street,
road, or highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built
or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed
at each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road.
Curb ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall
be constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.09   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue,
highway, passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when
any sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.10   FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
   It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
   No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar, or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove, or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12   ENCROACHING STEPS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.13   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
   It is unlawful for a person to:
   1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
   2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on
any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the
public.
   3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings
on or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.14   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.15   DEFACING.
   It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing
on any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.16   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.17   MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
   It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods
or merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with
the free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case
shall more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for
such purposes.
136.18   SALES STANDS.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand
for the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
   When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of
the City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public
grounds shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission
for its study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council.
The Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
   The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the
time at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
   No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
   1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
   2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
   The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental
body for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] and 364.7[3])
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Purpose and Definition 138.03 Record Maintained
138.02 Established Grades
 
138.01   PURPOSE AND DEFINITION.
   This chapter is designed to meet the requirements of the Code of Iowa for
the establishment of street grades. As used herein, “grade” means the
longitudinal reference lines, as established by ordinance of the Council, which
designate the elevation at which a street or sidewalk is to be built.
138.02   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
   The grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.03   RECORD MAINTAINED.
   The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names   
 
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
   New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.
   2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred
to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
   The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
   Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
   Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section 139.04 of the
Code of Ordinances of Elk Run Heights, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
   If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES
 
140.01 Exercise of Police Power 140.04 Access Controls Imposed
140.02 Definition               140.05 Unlawful Use of Controlled Access
                                Facilities
140.03 Right of Access Limited   
 
140.01   EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
   This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City
under Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace,
health, and safety and for the promotion of the general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1)
140.02   DEFINITION.
   The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street especially
designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of
abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled
right or easement of access, light, air, or view by reason of the fact that
their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for any other
reason.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2)
140.03   RIGHT OF ACCESS LIMITED.
   No person has any right of ingress or egress to or from abutting lands onto
or across any controlled access facility, except at such designated points at
which access is permitted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
140.04   ACCESS CONTROLS IMPOSED.
   There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities within
the City, described as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3)
   1.   Project No. F1049(3). On the Primary Road System extension improvement,
Project No. F1049(3), Primary Road No. U.S. 20 relocation with the City,
described as follows:
   From STA. 1163 + 20.7 (west corporation line) to STA. 1192 + 54.9 (east
corporation line)
   regulating access to and from STA. 1163+20.7 to STA. 1192 + 54.9 abutting
properties along the highway, all in accordance with the plans for such
improvement identified as Project No. F-1049(3), on file in the office of the
Clerk.
140.05   UNLAWFUL USE OF CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITY.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3 and 321.366)
   1.   Cross Dividing Line. Drive a vehicle over, upon, or across any curb,
central dividing section, or other separation or dividing line on such
controlled access facilities.
   2.   Turns. Make a left turn or a semicircular or U-turn except through an
opening provided for that purpose in the dividing curb section, separation, or
line.
   3.   Use of Lanes. Drive any vehicle except in the proper lane provided for
that purpose and in the proper direction and to the right of the central
dividing curb, separation, section, or line.
   4.   Enter Facility. Drive any vehicle into the controlled access facility
from a local service road except through an opening provided for that purpose
in the dividing curb or dividing section or dividing line that separates such
service road from the controlled access facility property.
CHAPTER 141
DRIVEWAYS
 
141.01 Definitions             141.06 Driveway Requirements
141.02 Permission Required     141.07 Number of Curb Openings
141.03 Permit                  141.08 Method of Cutting Curb
141.04 Inspection and Approval 141.09 Sidewalks
141.05 Driveways to be Paved   141.10 Excavations
                              141.11 Culvert Requirements
 
141.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Driveway” means that part of any approach for motor vehicles to
private property that lies between the property line and roadway of the public
street.
   2.   “Paving” includes any kind of hard surfacing including, but not limited
to, concrete, brick, stabilized gravel, combinations of such materials with the
necessary base, asphalt or other material approved by Council. “Paving” does
not include surfacing with oil, gravel, oil and gravel, or chloride.
   3.   “New construction” means new buildings or structures. “New
construction” also includes reconstruction of an existing building or structure
that constitutes complete replacement of an existing building or structure or
refitting of an existing building or structure or if footings are required.
Does not include renovations or repairs.
141.02   PERMISSION REQUIRED.
   No curb shall be cut or changed, and no parking or public property shall be
used for a driveway or parking without first obtaining written permission from
the Council.
141.03   PERMIT.
   Before any person shall construct or repair a driveway, said person shall
obtain a written permit from the City. A written application for the permit
shall be filed with the Building Inspector. The application shall include the
name and address of the property owner, the name and address of the person who
will do the work and the proposed plan of construction or repair, which shall
include the depth, width and type of surfacing material to be used. No other
plan shall be followed except by written permission of the Building Inspector,
who may allow amendments to the application or permit that do not conflict with
this chapter. The Building Inspector shall issue the permit, bearing the
signature of the Building Inspector and the date of issuance, if the proposed
plan meets all of the requirements of this chapter, if the fee required under
this chapter has been paid, and if the construction or repair as planned will
not create any substantial hazard in the use of the street or sidewalk for
public travel or drainage, or create any defect. Each permit shall expire six
months after the date of issuance, if not constructed within that time.
141.04   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   The driveway must be inspected and approved by the City within 30 days after
completion of the work. The City shall keep a record of such approvals. If the
work is not approved, it must be corrected immediately so it will meet with the
City’s approval. If the work has been done improperly, the City shall have the
right to finish or correct the work and the Council shall assess the cost to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with the general
property taxes and in the same manner.  
141.05   DRIVEWAYS TO BE PAVED.  
   All driveways shall be paved to property line with one of the following
types of surfaces: concrete, brick, stabilized gravel, or combinations of such
materials with the necessary base or other hard surface approved by Council.
Any driveway in compliance with this Code of Ordinances previous to the
adoption of this provision shall be allowed to remain. Any new construction
including a new residential home or garage constructed after implementation of
this code of ordinances shall be required to comply with the requirements of
hard surface or driveway pavement as indicated in this section.
141.06   DRIVEWAY REQUIREMENTS.
   All driveways shall meet the following requirements:
   1.   Except as set forth in Subsection 2, all driveways shall be of paving
of a depth of not less than six inches and shall be at least 10 feet in width.
Alternatively, driveways for non-multi-family residential properties may be of
a paving depth of not less than four inches if the paving is reinforced with #9
welded reinforced wire. The driveway may be placed directly on compact and
well-drained soil. Where soil is not well-drained, a three-inch sub-base of
compact, clean, coarse gravel, sand or cinders shall be laid. The driveway
shall slope not more than three inches per foot toward the roadway. The maximum
driveway width at the curb line shall be 25 feet for a one-car garage, 28 feet
for a two-car garage, and 38 feet for a three-car garage. All other
construction shall comply with the City’s Standard Specifications, which shall
be considered an outline of minimal standards.
   2.   Driveways accessing multi-family property shall have a minimum width of
12 feet and shall be prepared with six-inch square reinforced wire mesh. The
minimum radius for that part of such driveways connecting to streets shall be
10 feet.
141.07   NUMBER OF CURB OPENINGS.
   In general, only one opening shall be granted per residence in residential
areas. The Council may grant additional openings in special cases such as for
larger corner lots, etc. The width and number of curb openings for business and
commercial places shall be determined as to the needs by the Council. Any
opening onto a State-owned road will have to be approved by the State
Department of Transportation and the Council.
141.08   METHOD OF CUTTING CURB.
   Curb shall be saw cut at least two inches deep as close to face of curb as
possible. Saw cut the curb at ends of opening as deep as possible. Curb shall
then be removed to full depth of pavement. When curb is removed by this method,
no expansion joint will be used between drive and existing pavement. One-half
inch pre-formed expansion joint is to be used between drive and existing
pavement when existing curb drop is used.
141.09   SIDEWALKS.
   The grade of any sidewalk shall not be altered by the work done. The
driveway shall be at the same level as any existing sidewalk.
141.10   EXCAVATIONS.
   Excavations to do work under this chapter shall be dug so as to occasion the
least possible inconvenience to the public and to provide for the passage of
water along the gutter. All such excavations shall have proper barricades at
all times, and warning lights placed from one-half hour before sunset to one-
half hour after sunrise. In refilling the excavation, the earth must be laid in
layers and each layer tamped thoroughly. Any street, sidewalk or other public
property that is affected by the work shall be restored to as good a condition
as it was previous to the excavation. The affected area shall be maintained in
good repair to the satisfaction of the Council for three months after
refilling.
141.11   CULVERT REQUIREMENTS.
   The building official shall determine whether a culvert shall be required in
the driveway serving the real estate. The building official shall determine the
length of the culvert, diameter, and the placement of the culvert, including
the relationship to the center line of the road and the level or height of the
culvert.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01 Enforcement Officer          145.06 Conduct of Hearing
145.02 General Definition of Unsafe 145.07 Posting of Signs
145.03 Unsafe Building              145.08 Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                    Infraction
145.04 Structural Requirements      145.09 Costs
145.05 Notice to Owner               
 
145.01   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Mayor is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
145.02   GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
   All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided
with adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise
dangerous to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a
hazard to safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose
of this chapter, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition, or removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 and 364.12[3a])
145.03   UNSAFE BUILDING.
   “Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of
the following criteria:
   1.   Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, because of: (i) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; (ii)
faulty construction; (iii) the removal, movement, or instability of any portion
of the ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building; (iv) the
deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or (v) any other cause,
is likely to partially or completely collapse.
   2.   Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure,
or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is
being used.
   3.   Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or
intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is
likely to cause sickness or disease.
   4.   Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
   5.   Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04   STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All structures, both commercial and residential, including detached
accessory structures on any commercial, residential, agricultural, or
industrial property, shall be free of significant structural defects. The term
“free from significant structural defects” means:
   1.   The roof and roofing material are of such a nature and condition that
they do not permit water, snow, or ice to penetrate into the structure. Roofing
materials shall be in good condition and made up of consistent materials and
consistent coloration throughout the roof area.
   2.   Drainage gutters and downspouts are securely attached to the structure
and in proper functioning order.
   3.   All exterior trim and exterior exposed surfaces, including siding
materials, must be sound, in good condition, and securely attached to the
structure.
   4.   Exterior walls must be free of holes and made of a consistent material,
such that patches or repairs consisting of dissimilar materials or colors
compared to the prevailing surface material of the exterior walls are not
present.
   5.   The foundation of the structure is sound, capable of supporting the
structure, and not deteriorated to the point that failure is judged to be
inevitable, but not necessarily imminent. The foundation shall be plumb and
free from cracks, breaks, and holes so as to prevent the entry of animals.
   6.   Windows and doors, including outer screen or storm windows and doors,
must be intact, containing no holes, squarely hung with properly operating
latches or locks so as to be securely closed, and where the windows have intact
glass or normal window material that allows the entry of light with no holes in
said window surface areas.
   7.   All points of egress and ingress into and out of the structure must be
of a secure and safe design and made of standard building materials and must
also provide clear and easy access via properly installed steps, porches,
entryway landings, and hand rails that are intact, with no protruding or loose
boards or surface materials causing a hazard, and which provide ready access to
all points of entry to the structure.
   8.   Exterior wall surfaces are properly painted and/or maintained with
appropriate exterior wall materials, including wood, vinyl, steel, or metal
siding materials, stucco or exterior insulation finish system (EIFS) materials,
brick or similar masonry materials, that are in all cases intact, not in a
condition of deterioration, are of uniform coloration, and are not patched with
dissimilar materials. Plastic wrap material shall not be considered to be an
acceptable siding material. No flaking or chipped paint or outer loose material
dominates or detracts from the exterior appearance of the structure.
   9.   All fencing, including gates, shall be maintained in good condition,
free from damage, breaks, holes, or missing structural members. All fencing
shall be of consistent materials and coloration.
   10.   Detached accessory structures, including garages and storage sheds,
must conform to the standards outlined above. In addition, all doors and
windows must be of functional design and materials and in proper working order.
No plastic wrap material or tarps shall be used to substitute for doorways or
windows.
   11.   Materials and practices used in the reconstruction and repair of any
building structure, whether of roofing materials, siding materials, foundation,
walls, windows, doorways, entryways, or detached accessory structures shall be
of standard quality and appearance, consistent with currently applicable
International Building Code requirements and consistent with the appearance and
character of the structure under repair, and consistent with other properties
in the immediate vicinity of the premises.
   12.   All vacant structures shall comply with the above-cited maintenance
provisions with the exception that windows and doors may be secured with boards
or other materials intended to provide security and protection to the
structure. All vandalized portions of the structure must be promptly repaired
including repainting of areas that are defaced with paint or graffiti .
145.05   NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building
or structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such
is found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement officer. If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to
be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the enforcement officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail
to the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of Iowa, if
the owner is found within the City limits. If the owner is not found within the
City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered mail or
certified mail. The designated period within which said owner or person in
charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement officer shall
begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
   2.   Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request
for hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.06   CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the
date, time and place of hearing.
   2.   Owner’s Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
   3.   Determination. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and
may issue such order as it deems appropriate. † 8
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
  Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
8 this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use of this procedure. We
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before initiating
  procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.
145.07   POSTING OF SIGNS.
   The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read: “DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. CITY OF ELK RUN
HEIGHTS, IOWA.” Such notice shall remain posted until the required demolition,
removal or repairs are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without
written permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter the
building except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of
demolishing the building.
145.08   RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
   In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.09   COSTS.
   Costs incurred under Section 145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury.
Such costs shall be charged to the owner of the premises involved and levied as
a special assessment against the land on which the building or structure is
located, and shall be certified to the County Treasurer for collection in the
manner provided for other taxes. In addition, the City may take any other
action deemed appropriate to recover costs incurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
CHAPTER 146
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
 
146.01 Definitions                 146.03 Foundation Requirements
146.02 Conversion to Real Property  
 
146.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1)
   1.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under the
authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403 which was constructed on or after June 15,
1976, and is required by federal law to display a seal from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   2.   “Manufactured home community” means any site, lot, field, or tract of
land under common ownership upon which 10 or more occupied manufactured homes
are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
building, structure, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of the manufactured home community.
   3.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed, or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa. A mobile home means any such vehicle
built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building code
and which contains no State or federal seals.
   4.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon
which three or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a combination of any
of these homes, are placed on developed spaces and operated as a for-profit
enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical services available.
The term “manufactured home community” or “mobile home park” is not to be
construed to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other
structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational institution,
or company on its own premises and used exclusively to house said entity’s own
labor or students. The manufactured home community or mobile home park shall
meet the requirements of any zoning regulations that are in effect.
146.02   CONVERSION TO REAL PROPERTY.
   A mobile home or manufactured home that is located outside a manufactured
home community or mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being
placed on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes
except in the following cases:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.26)
   1.   Retailer’s Stock. Mobile homes or manufactured homes on private
property as part of a retailer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a place
for human habitation.
   2.   Existing Homes. A taxable mobile home or manufactured home that is
located outside of a manufactured home community or mobile home park as of
January 1, 1995, shall be assessed and taxed as real estate, but is exempt from
the permanent foundation requirement of this chapter until the home is
relocated.
146.03   FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
   A mobile home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system that meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code. The
foundation system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation systems
of surrounding residential structures. Any such home shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10 and 414.28)
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements
 
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
   2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
   Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
   1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to
the principal building from the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   2.   Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than two and one-half inches in height
and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
   Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
TREES
 
151.01 Definition            151.04 Trimming Trees To Be Supervised
151.02 Planting Restrictions 151.05 Disease Control
151.03 Duty To Trim Trees    151.06 Inspection and Removal
 
151.01   DEFINITION.
   For use in this chapter, “parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or
highway in the City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and
the curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or
highway lying between the lot line and that portion of the street usually
traveled by vehicular traffic.
151.02   PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
   No tree shall be planted in any parking or street except in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Alignment. All trees planted in any street shall be planted in the
parking midway between the outer line of the sidewalk and the curb. In the
event a curb line is not established, trees shall be planted on a line 10 feet
from the property line.
   2.   Spacing. Trees shall not be planted on any parking that is less than
nine feet in width, or contains less than 81 square feet of exposed soil
surface per tree. Trees shall not be planted closer than 20 feet from street
intersections (property lines extended) and 10 feet from driveways. If it is at
all possible, trees should be planted inside the property lines and not between
the sidewalk and the curb.
   3.   Prohibited. No tree shall be planted in any street, avenue, or highway
between the outer line of the sidewalk and the curb where the curb line is
established, or where the curb line is not established, on a line nine feet
from the property line, unless in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
151.03   DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
   The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 15 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks. If the
abutting property owner fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on
the abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five
days. If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the
required action and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c and e])
151.04   TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
   Except as allowed in Section
151.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or cut any tree in a street or
public place unless the work is done under the supervision of the City.
151.05   DISEASE CONTROL.
   Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub that may harbor serious insect
or disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. This includes, but is not limited to, trees infected with Dutch Elm
or other infectious disease as identified by a qualified arborist; or, any
dead, diseased, or damaged trees or plant materials which may harbor serious
insect or disease pests or disease injurious to other trees or plant materials;
or, any healthy tree in such a state of deterioration that any part of such
tree is likely to fall and damage property or cause injury to persons. In
addition to any action taken under this chapter, trees infected with Dutch Elm
shall be dealt with in strict compliance with this chapter. If a qualified
arborist determines that a diseased or damaged tree or plant material may be
brought to full health by chemical or other treatment, the City will not
enforce the provisions of this chapter if a property owner or tenant provides
proof to the City that such treatment has been properly applied. If however, a
qualified arborist determines that such treatment is ineffective, the City may
enforce the provisions of this chapter and this Code of Ordinances.
151.06   INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
   The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in
the City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased or damaged, and such trees
and shrubs shall be subject to the following:
   1.   City Property. If it is determined that any such condition exists on
any public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line of
private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal. The Council may also order the removal of any trees on
the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or with
travel thereon.
   2.   Private Property. If it is determined with reasonable certainty that
any such condition exists on private property and that danger to other trees or
to adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is imminent, the
Council shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or person in charge
of such property to correct such condition by treatment or removal within 14
days of said notification. If such owner, occupant, or person in charge of said
property fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council may
cause the condition to be corrected and the cost assessed against the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3b and h])
CHAPTER 152
CONSTRUCTION SITE EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
 
152.01 General Provisions        152.05 Monitoring Procedures for CONESCO
                                 Permits
152.02 Definitions               152.06 Enforcement
152.03 Application Procedure For 152.07 Performance Bond or Cash Security
CONESCO Permit
152.04 Inspection Procedures For 152.08 Joint Application Guidance
CONESCO Permits
 
152.01   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Land development projects and associated improvements increase impervious
cover, alter the hydrologic response of local watersheds, and increase
stormwater runoff rates and volumes, flooding, stream channel erosion, and
sediment transport and deposition. This stormwater runoff contributes to
increased quantities of water-borne pollutants; and, stormwater runoff, soil
erosion, and nonpoint source pollution can be controlled and minimized through
the regulation of stormwater runoff from development sites. Therefore, the City
establishes this set of water quality and quantity policies applicable to all
surface waters to provide reasonable guidance for the regulation of stormwater
runoff for the purpose of protecting local water resources from degradation as
a result of construction activity. It is determined that the regulation of
stormwater runoff discharges from land development projects and other
construction activities, in order to control and minimize increases in
stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, stream channel erosion, and
nonpoint source pollution associated with stormwater runoff, is in the public
interest and will prevent threats to public health and safety.
   1.   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to control or minimize
stormwater pollution, along with soil erosion and sedimentation, within the
City. It references the SUDAS standards and specifications for conservation
practices and planning activities designed to minimize non-point source
pollution, soil erosion, and sedimentation.
   2.   Applicability. Any person, firm, sole proprietorship, partnership,
corporation, State agency, or political subdivision proposing a land
disturbance activity of one acre or more, and/or requiring site planning,
subdivision, and/or NPDES construction permit approval, within the
jurisdiction, shall apply to the permitting authority. Land disturbing
activities shall not begin until the plan conforms to the standards set forth
in this chapter and is approved by the permitting authority.
   3.   Compatibility With Other Permit and Ordinance Requirements. This
chapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other
ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or other provision of law. The
requirements of this chapter should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other ordinance, rule, or regulation, or other provision of law,
whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards
for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
   4.   Severability. If the provisions of any chapter, section, subsection,
paragraph, subdivision, or clause of this chapter shall be judged invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such order of judgment shall not affect or
invalidate the remainder of any article, section, subsection, paragraph,
subdivision, or clause of this chapter.
152.02   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   “Best management practices” or “BMPs” means erosion and sediment
control and water quality management practices that are the most effective and
practicable means of controlling, preventing, and minimizing degradation of
surface water, including avoidance of impacts, construction-phasing, minimizing
the length of time soil areas are exposed, prohibitions and other management
practices published by State or designated area-wide planning agencies. They
can include schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance
procedures, and other management practices to prevent or reduce the pollution
of waters of the United States. Individual BMPs found in this permit are
described in the Iowa SUDAS Standards and Specifications for Erosion and
Sediment Control and the recommendations provided on the SUDAS website:
www.iowasudas.com. BMPs must be adapted to the site and can be adopted from
other sources.
   2.   “Common plan of development or sale” means a contiguous area where
multiple separate and distinct land disturbing activities may be taking place
at different times, on different schedules, but under one proposed plan. One
plan is broadly defined to include design, permit application, advertisement,
or physical demarcation indicating that land-disturbing activities may occur.
   3.   “Construction activity” means construction activity as defined in 40
C.F.R. Part 122.26(b)(14)(x), and small construction activity as defined in 40
C.F.R. Part 122.26(b)(15). This includes a disturbance to the land that results
in a change in the topography, existing soil cover (both vegetative and non-
vegetative), or the existing soil topography that may result in accelerated
stormwater runoff, leading to soil erosion and movement of sediment into
surface waters or drainage systems. Examples of construction activity may
include clearing, grading, filling, and excavating. Construction activity
includes the disturbance of less than one acre of total land area that is a
part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan
will ultimately disturb one acre or more.
   4.   “Construction erosion control plan” means a plan drawing at a minimum
scale of one inch equals 50 feet and at least 11 inches by 17 inches showing
the location and sequencing of BMPs on the site.
   5.   “Dewatering” means the removal of water for construction activity. It
can be a discharge of appropriated surface or groundwater to dry and/or
solidify a construction site. It may require Iowa Department of Natural
Resources permits to be appropriated and if contaminated may require other
permits to be discharged.
   6.   “Energy dissipation” means methods employed at pipe outlets to prevent
erosion. Examples include, but are not limited to, concrete aprons, riprap,
splash pads, and gabions that are designed to prevent erosion.
   7.   “Erosion prevention” means measures employed to prevent erosion
including, but not limited to, soil stabilization practices, limited grading,
mulch, temporary or permanent cover, and construction phasing.
   8.   “Final stabilization” means that either all soil disturbing activities
at the site have been completed and a uniform (e.g., evenly distributed,
without large bare areas) perennial vegetative cover with a density of 70
percent of the native background vegetative cover as measured by the line
transect method for the area has been established on all unpaved areas and
areas not covered by permanent structures, or equivalent permanent
stabilization measures (such as the use of riprap, gabions, or geotextiles)
have been employed.
      A.   For individual lots in residential construction by either:
         (1)   The homebuilder completing final stabilization as specified
above; or
         (2)   The homebuilder establishing temporary stabilization including
perimeter controls for an individual lot prior to occupation of the home by the
homeowner and informing the homeowner of the need for, and benefits of, final
stabilization. (Homeowners typically have an incentive to put in the
landscaping functionally equivalent to final stabilization as quick as possible
to keep mud out of their homes and off sidewalks and driveways.).
      B.   For construction projects on land used for agricultural purposes
(e.g., pipelines across crop or range land), final stabilization may be
accomplished by returning the disturbed land to its preconstruction
agricultural use. Areas disturbed that were not previously used for
agricultural activities, such as buffer strips immediately adjacent to surface
waters and drainage systems, and areas which are not being returned to their
preconstruction agricultural use must meet the final stabilization criteria in
Subparagraphs (1) or (2) above.
   9.   “General contractor” means the party who signs the construction
contract with the owner to construct the project described in the final plans
and specifications. Where the construction project involves more than one
contractor, the general contractor will be the party responsible for managing
the project on behalf of the owner. In some cases, the owner may be the general
contractor. In these cases, the owner may contract an individual as the
operator who would become the co-permittee.
   10.   “Impervious surface” means a constructed hard surface that either
prevents or retards the entry of water into the soil and causes water to run
off the surface in greater quantities, and at an increased rate of flow, than
prior to development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways,
parking lots, storage areas, and concrete, asphalt, or gravel roads.
   11.   “National pollutant discharge elimination system” or “NPDES” means the
program for issuing, modifying, revoking, reissuing, terminating, monitoring,
and enforcing permits under the Clean Water Act (Sections 301, 318, 402, and
405) and United States Code of Federal Regulations Title 33, Sections 1317,
1328, 1342, and 1345.
   12.   “Normal wetted perimeter” means the area of a conveyance, such as a
ditch, channel, or pipe that is in contact with water during flow events that
are expected to occur once every year.
   13.   “Notice of discontinuation” means a notice to discontinue coverage
under this permit after construction is complete, the site has undergone final
stabilization, and maintenance agreements for all permanent facilities have
been established in accordance with all applicable conditions of this permit.
   14.   “Notice of intent” means a discharger is required to submit a notice
of intent in accordance with the Iowa Department of Natural Resources
requirements for stormwater discharge associated with industrial activity for
construction activities pursuant to General Permit Number 2.
   15.   “Operator” means the person (usually the general contractor),
designated by the owner, who has day-to-day operational control and/or the
ability to modify project plans and specifications related to the SWPPP.
   The person must be knowledgeable in those areas of the permit for which the
operator is responsible (Part II.B. and Part IV.), and must perform those
responsibilities in a professional manner.
   16.   “Owner” means the person or party possessing the title of the land on
which the construction activities will occur; or, if the construction activity
is for a lease holder, the party or individual identified as the lease holder;
or, the contracting government agency responsible for the construction
activity.
   17.   “Permanent cover” means final stabilization. Examples include grass,
gravel, asphalt, and concrete.
   18.   “Permittee” means a person or persons, firm, or governmental agency or
other institution that signs the application submitted to the IDNR and is
responsible for compliance with the terms and conditions of this permit.
   19.   “Runoff coefficient” means the fraction of total rainfall that will
appear at the conveyance as runoff.
   20.   “Saturated soil” means the highest seasonal elevation in the soil that
is in a reduced chemical state because of soil voids being filled with water.
Saturated soil is evidenced by the presence of redoximorphic features such as
mottles or other information.
   21.   “Sediment control” means methods employed to prevent sediment from
leaving the site. Sediment control practices include silt fences, sediment
traps, earth dikes, drainage swales, check dams, subsurface drains, pipe slope
drains, storm drain inlet protection, and temporary or permanent sedimentation
basins.
   22.   “Sensitive waters” means waters that may include cold-water trout
streams, wetlands, or other high quality water streams and lakes. Extra
precautions should be taken when disturbing site soils near or on these areas
to minimize impacts on water quality.
   23.   “Stabilized” means the exposed ground surface has been covered by
appropriate materials such as mulch, staked sod, riprap, wood fiber blanket, or
other material that prevents erosion from occurring. Grass seeding is not
stabilization.
   24.   “Stormwater” means precipitation runoff, stormwater runoff, snowmelt
runoff, and any other surface runoff and drainage.
   25.   “Stormwater pollution prevention plan” or “SWPPP” means a plan for
stormwater discharge that includes erosion prevention measures and sediment
controls that, when implemented, will decrease soil erosion on a parcel of land
and decrease off-site non-point pollution.
   26.   “Surface water or waters” means all streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
wetlands, reservoirs, springs, rivers, drainage systems, waterways,
watercourses, and irrigation systems, whether natural or artificial, public or
private.
   27.   “Temporary erosion protection” means methods employed to prevent
erosion. Examples of temporary cover include; straw, wood fiber blanket, wood
chips, and erosion netting.
   28.   “Underground waters” means water contained below the surface of the
earth in the saturated zone including, without limitation, all waters whether
under confined, unconfined, or perched conditions, in near-surface,
unconsolidated sediment or regolith, or in rock formations deeper underground.
The term groundwater shall be synonymous with underground water.
   29.   “Waters of the State” means rivers, streams, lakes, and any other
bodies of surface and subsurface water lying within or forming a part of the
boundaries of the State which are not entirely confined and located completely
upon lands owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by a single person or by two
or more persons jointly or as tenants in common. “Waters of the State” includes
waters of the United States lying within the State.
(Code of Iowa, Chapter 455B.381[10])
   30.   “Wetland” or “wetlands” means an area of two or more acres in a
natural condition that is mostly under water or waterlogged during the spring
growing season and is characterized by vegetation of hydric soils. Wetlands
generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. Constructed
wetlands designed for wastewater treatment are not waters of the State.
Wetlands must have the following attributes: a predominance of hydric soils
inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic vegetation typically
adapted for life in a saturated soil condition, and, under normal
circumstances, support a prevalence of such vegetation.
(Code of Iowa, Chapter 456.1[5])
152.03   APPLICATION PROCEDURE FOR CONESCO PERMIT.
   1.   Permit Required. No land owner or land operator shall receive any of
the building, grading, or other land development permits required for land
disturbance activities without first meeting the requirements of this chapter
prior to commencing the proposed activity.
   2.   Application Requirements. Unless specifically excluded by this chapter,
any land owner or operator desiring a permit for a land disturbance activity
shall submit to the City a permit application on a form provided for that
purpose. Unless otherwise accepted by this chapter, a permit application must
be accompanied by the following in order that the permit application be
considered:
      A.   A construction erosion control plan;
      B.   A stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP); and
      C.   A non-refundable permit review fee.
   3.   Application Review Fees. The fee for review of any land development
application shall be based on the amount of land to be disturbed at the site,
and the fee structure shall be established by the City. All of the monetary
contributions shall be credited to a local budgetary category to support local
plan review, inspection, and program administration, and shall be made prior to
the issuance of any building permit for the development.
   4.   Application Procedure.
      A.   Applications for land disturbance activity permits must be filed
with the City on any regular business day.
      B.   A copy of this permit application shall be forwarded to the City for
review.
      C.   Permit applications shall include two copies of the construction
erosion control plan and two copies of the SWPPP.
      D.   Within 10 business days of the receipt of a complete permit
application, including all documents as required by this chapter, the City
shall inform the applicant whether the application, plan, and maintenance
agreement are approved or disapproved.
      E.   If the permit application, stormwater management plan, or
maintenance agreement are disapproved, the applicant may revise the stormwater
management plan or agreement. If additional information is submitted, the City
shall have 10 business days from the date the additional information is
received to inform the applicant that the plan and maintenance agreement are
either approved or disapproved.
         (1)   The SWPPP shall be prepared in accordance with this chapter.
Every SWPPP submitted to the City:
            a.   Shall comply with all current minimum mandatory requirements
for SWPPPs promulgated by the IDNR in connection with issuance of a State
permit, as set out in the current version of the IDNR publication entitled,
“Iowa Department Of Natural Resources NPDES General Permit No. 2, Stormwater
Discharge Associated With Industrial Activity For Construction Activities” (the
“permit handbook”), including, but not limited to, “Part IV.
         Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans,” and as said minimum mandatory
requirements are modified from time to time hereafter; and
            b.   Shall, if the applicant is required by law to file a joint
application form, “protecting Iowa waters, Iowa Department of Natural
Resources, and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,” comply with all mandatory minimum
requirements pertaining to such joint application, and copies of the joint
application permit shall be included within the SWPPP; and
            c.   Shall comply with all other applicable State or federal permit
requirements in existence at the time of application; and
            d.   Shall be prepared by the applicant’s engineer and shall
include within the SWPPP a signed and dated certification by the applicant’s
engineer that the SWPPP complies with all requirements of this chapter.
            e.   Shall require the signatures of the land owner or the land
operator upon the following certification:
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gathered and evaluated the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
            f.   Shall also contain the following certification signed by all
contractors and subcontractors identified in the SWPPP:
“I certify under penalty of law that I understand the terms and conditions of
the general National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit that
authorizes the stormwater discharges associated with activity from the
construction site as part of this certification. Further, by my signature, I
understand that I am becoming a co-permittee, along with the owner(s) and other
contractors and subcontractors signing such certifications, to the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources NPDES General Permit No. 2 for Stormwater
Discharge Associated with Industrial Activity for Construction Activities” at
the identified site. As a co-permittee, I understand that I, and my company,
are legally required under the Clean Water Act and the Code of Iowa, to ensure
compliance with the terms and conditions of the stormwater pollution plan
developed under this NPDES permit and the terms of the NPDES permit.”
   The certification must include the name and title of the person providing
the signature; the name, address, and telephone number of the contracting firm;
the address (or other identifying description) of the site; and, the date the
certification is made.
            g.   Shall include the following statement signed by the applicant:
“The undersigned Applicant hereby agrees to defend, indemnify and hold the City
of Elk Run Heights harmless from any and all claims, damages, or suits arising
directly or indirectly out of any act of commission or omission by the
Applicant, or any employee, agent, assignee, or contractor or subcontractor of
the Applicant, in connection with Applicant’s State NPDES General Permit No. 2
and/or Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan.”
      F.   If the permit application, construction erosion control plan, and
SWPPP are approved by the City, all appropriate land disturbance activity
permits shall be issued.
   5.   Permit Duration. Permits issued under this section shall be valid from
the date of issuance through the date the City notifies the permit holder that
all stormwater management practices have passed the final inspection required
under permit condition.
152.04   INSPECTION PROCEDURES FOR CONESCO PERMITS.
   1.   All inspections undertaken by the City under this chapter shall be
conducted by the enforcement officer.
   2.   Prior to beginning construction, the applicant or applicant’s SWPPP
manager shall contact the City to schedule a preconstruction site inspection.
The enforcement officer shall inspect the permitted site to determine that, at
minimum, the control measures listed in the SWPPP that allow for construction
to commence have been properly installed. If the enforcement officer determines
that compliance has not been achieved, the enforcement officer shall provide to
the applicant a written bill of particulars identifying the conditions of
noncompliance. The applicant shall immediately commence corrective action and
shall complete such corrective action within the time frame allotted by the
enforcement officer in his discretion, but not exceeding 72 hours. For good
cause shown, the City may extend the deadline for taking corrective action.
Failure to take corrective action in a timely manner shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   3.   Construction shall not occur on any area of the site that the
enforcement officer has designated at any time while conditions of
noncompliance that have been identified by the enforcement officer continue to
exist.
   4.   Construction activities undertaken by an applicant before resolution of
all discrepancies specified in the bill of particulars, if undertaken in an
area designated by the enforcement officer as a prohibited area, shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
   5.   The City shall not be responsible for the direct or indirect
consequences to the applicant or to third parties for noncompliant conditions
that were undetected by inspection or that were undetected because the City, in
operating its program of random inspections, did not inspect the property.
   6.   The applicant, the applicant’s SWPPP manager or a qualified person
designated by the applicant’s SWPPP manager shall inspect the permitted site,
as well as any transferred sites which the applicant is a co-permittee of, no
less than once every seven calendar days. Reports generated by these site
inspections shall be included within, and deemed to be part of, the SWPPP.
   Any deficiencies or needed modifications discovered during the inspections
shall be noted in writing, and corrections or modifications shall be completed
within seven calendar days following the inspection.
   7.   Before a notice of discontinuation of the State permit can be submitted
to the IDNR, the applicant or the applicant’s SWPPP manager shall contact the
City to schedule a postconstruction site inspection. The enforcement officer
shall inspect the permitted site to determine that all disturbed areas have
achieved stabilization as required by the State permit and all temporary
control measures have been removed. If the enforcement officer determines that
stabilization has not been achieved, or temporary control measures need to be
removed, the enforcement officer shall provide to the applicant or the
applicant’s SWPPP manager a written bill of particulars identifying the
conditions of noncompliance. The applicant or applicant’s SWPPP manager shall
immediately commence corrective action and shall reschedule a postconstruction
inspection with the City when the required corrective actions have been
completed.
152.05   MONITORING PROCEDURES FOR CONESCO PERMITS.
   1.   Upon receipt of a State permit, the applicant and the applicant’s SWPPP
manager have an absolute duty to monitor site conditions and to report to the
enforcement officer any change of circumstances or site conditions which the
applicant or the applicant’s SWPPP manager knows or should know pose a risk of
stormwater discharge in a manner inconsistent with applicant’s State permit.
Examples of conditions that require notification include, but are not limited
to: (i) hazardous material spills; (ii) failure of site perimeter BMPs; (iii)
discharge of polluted waters from the site into the MS4 or onto neighboring
properties or nearby surface waters; or (iv) proposed implementation of BMPs on
site that deviate significantly from the BMPs proposed in the approved SWPPP.
      A.   Such report shall be submitted to the enforcement officer within 24
hours of the change of circumstances or site conditions.
      B.   Failure to make a timely report shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   2.   Any third party may also report to the City site conditions, which the
third party reasonably believes pose a risk of stormwater discharge in a manner
inconsistent with applicant’s State permit.
   3.   Upon receiving a report pursuant to Subsection 1 of this section, the
enforcement officer may conduct an inspection and thereafter shall provide the
applicant or the applicant’s SWPPP manager with a written bill of particulars
identifying any conditions of noncompliance. The applicant or the applicant’s
SWPPP manager shall immediately commence corrective action and shall complete
such corrective action within the time frame allotted by the enforcement
officer in his discretion, but not exceeding 72 hours. For good cause shown,
the City may extend the deadline for completing corrective action. Failure to
take corrective action in a timely manner shall constitute a violation of this
chapter, whereupon the enforcement officer shall immediately commence
enforcement actions specified in Section 152.06 of this chapter.
   4.   Upon receiving a report from a third party pursuant to Subsection 2 of
this section, the enforcement officer may conduct an inspection of the site as
soon as reasonably possible and thereafter shall provide the applicant or the
applicant’s SWPPP manager with a written bill of particulars identifying any
conditions of noncompliance. The applicant or the applicant’s SWPPP manager
shall immediately commence corrective action and shall complete such corrective
action within the time frame allotted by the enforcement officer in his
discretion, but not exceeding 72 hours. For good cause shown, the City may
extend the deadline for completing corrective action. Failure to take
corrective action in a timely manner shall constitute a violation of this
chapter, whereupon the enforcement officer shall immediately commence
enforcement actions specified in Section 152.06 of this chapter.
   5.   The enforcement officer may conduct one or more unannounced inspections
at any time during the course of construction to monitor compliance with the
State permit and the approved SWPPP.
   If the inspection discloses any noncompliance, the enforcement officer shall
provide the applicant or the applicant’s SWPPP manager with a written bill of
particulars identifying the conditions of noncompliance. The applicant or the
applicant’s SWPPP manager shall immediately commence corrective action and
shall complete such corrective action within the time frame allotted by the
enforcement officer in his discretion, but not exceeding 72 hours. For good
cause shown, the City may extend the deadline for completing corrective action.
Failure to take corrective action in a timely manner shall constitute a
violation of this chapter, whereupon the enforcement officer shall immediately
commence enforcement actions specified in Section
152.06 of this chapter.
   6.   The City shall not be responsible for the direct or indirect
consequences to the applicant or to third parties for noncompliant conditions
that were undetected by inspection or that were undetected because the City, in
operating its program of random inspections, did not inspect the property.
152.06   ENFORCEMENT.
   1.   Violations. Any development activity that is commenced or is conducted
contrary to this chapter, may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated
in a manner provided by law.
   2.   Notice of Violation. When the City determines that an activity is not
being carried out in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, it shall
issue a written notice of violation to the owner of the property. The notice of
violation shall contain:
      A.   The name and address of the owner or applicant.
      B.   The address (when available) or a description of the building,
structure, or land upon which the violation is occurring.
      C.   A statement specifying the nature of the violation.
      D.   A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the
development activity into compliance with this chapter, and a time schedule for
the completion of such remedial action.
      E.   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed.
      F.   A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to
the municipality by filing a written notice of appeal within 15 days of service
of notice of violation.
   3.   Stop Work Orders. Persons receiving a notice of violation will be
required to halt all construction activities. This “stop work order” will be in
effect until the City confirms that the development activity is in compliance
and the violation has been satisfactorily addressed. Failure to address a
notice of violation in a timely manner can result in civil, criminal, or
monetary penalties in accordance with the enforcement measures authorized in
this chapter.
   4.   Civil and Criminal Penalties. In addition to, or as an alternative to,
any penalty provided herein or by law, any person who violates the provisions
of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than $250.00, or by
imprisonment for a period not to exceed seven days, or both such fine and
imprisonment. Such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each day
during which the violation occurs or continues.
   5.   Restoration of Lands. Any violator may be required to restore land to
its undisturbed condition. In the event that restoration is not undertaken
within a reasonable time after notice, the City may take necessary corrective
action, the cost of which shall become a lien upon the property until paid.
   6.   Holds on Occupation Permits. Occupation permits will not be granted
until corrections to all stormwater practices have been made and accepted by
the City.
152.07   PERFORMANCE BOND OR CASH SECURITY.
   The City may, at its discretion, require the submittal of a performance
security or bond prior to issuance of a permit in order to insure that the
stormwater practices are installed by the permit holder as required by the
approved construction erosion control plan and SWPPP.
   The amount of the installation performance security shall be the total
estimated construction cost of the stormwater management practices approved
under the permit, plus 25 percent. The performance security shall contain
forfeiture provisions for failure to complete work specified in the stormwater
management plan. The installation performance security shall be released in
full only upon completion of the final inspection and the completion of a
notice of discontinuation of the NPDES permit with the IDNR.
   Provisions for a partial pro-rata release of the performance security based
on the completion of various development stages can be done at the discretion
of the City.
152.08   JOINT APPLICATION GUIDANCE.
   1.   Construction, excavation or filling in streams, lakes, wetlands, or on
the floodplains may require permits from both the Army Corps of Engineers and
IDNR. A joint application form (Protecting Iowa Waters) shall be submitted to
both agencies to begin the permit process for any of the following activities:
cutting the bank of a river, stream, or lake; any excavation or dredging in a
wetland, lake, stream, or river; channel changes or relocations (including
stream straightening); construction of any permanent dock, pier, wharf,
seawall, boat ramp, beach, intake, or outfall structure on a stream, river, or
lake; placement of any fill, riprap, or similar material in a stream, river,
lake, or wetland; construction of a dam across any waterway; placement of fill,
construction of levees, roadways and bridges and similar activities on a
floodplain; or construction of buildings on a floodplain. The Iowa Department
of Natural Resources also requires permits for the construction and operation
of water and waste-water treatment facilities, water withdrawal, water storage,
and solid waste disposal, and should be contacted for information about these
permits. The joint application covers three permitting entities (floodplain,
sovereign lands, and the Army Corps of Engineers) and one certification program
(Section 401 water quality certification which the Corps needs to issue their
404 permit). Refer to the following links for additional guidance:
      A.   Joint application form:
         http://www.iowadnr.com/other/files/jointpermit.pdf (preferred - via SL
& FP)
         http://www.iowadnr.com/water/section401/files/Form36a.pdf (via
wetlands)
      B.   Army Corp of Engineers (COE):
         http://www.mvr.usace.army.mil/Regulatory/
RegulatoryDivisionHomePage.htm (Rock Island District);
         and/or
         http://www.nwo.usace.army.mil/html/pa/pahm/links.htm (Omaha District)
      C.   FP Development Program:
         http://www.iowadnr.com/water/floodplain/index.html
      D.   Sovereign Lands Program:
         http://www.iowadnr.com/other/slands.html 
      E.   401 Water Quality Certification Program:
         http://www.iowadnr.com/water/section40l/info.html
   2.   Recommended BMPS for Sensitive Waters.
      A.   During Construction.
         (1)   All exposed soil areas with a slope of 3:1 or steeper, that have
a continuous positive slope to a special water, should have temporary erosion
protection or permanent cover within three days after the area is no longer
actively being worked. All other slopes that have a continuous positive slope
to a special water should have temporary erosion protection or permanent cover
within seven days after the area is no longer actively being worked.
         (2)   Temporary sediment basin requirements should be used for common
drainage locations that serve an area with five or more acres disturbed at one
time.
      B.   Buffer Zone. An undisturbed buffer zone of not less than one hundred
linear feet from the sensitive water (not including tributaries) should be
maintained at all times. Exceptions from this for areas, such as water
crossings or limited water access, are allowed if the permittee fully documents
in the SWPPP the circumstances and reasons that the buffer encroachment is
necessary. All potential water quality, scenic, and other environmental impacts
of these exceptions, should be minimized and documented in the SWPPP for the
project.
      C.   Temperature Controls. The permanent stormwater management system
should be designed such that the discharge from the project will minimize any
increase in the temperature of the receiving waters resulting from the one and
24-year, 20-hour precipitation events. Projects that discharge to sensitive
waters should minimize the impact using one or more of the following measures,
in order of preference:
         (1)   Minimize new impervious surfaces.
         (2)   Minimize the discharge from connected impervious surfaces by
discharging to vegetated areas or grass swales and through the use of other
non-structural controls.
         (3)   Other methods that will minimize any increase in the temperature
of the trout stream.
      D.   Wetlands Guidance in Order of Preference.
         (1)   Avoid all significant adverse impacts to wetlands from the
project and post project discharge.
         (2)   Minimize any unavoidable impacts from the project and post
project discharge.
         (3)   Provide compensatory mitigation when the permittee determines
that there is no reasonable and practicable alternative to having a significant
adverse impact on a wetland. For compensatory mitigation, wetland restoration
or creation should be of the same type, size, and, whenever reasonable and
practicable, in the same watershed as the impacted wetland.
CHAPTER 153
POST-CONSTRUCTION EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
 
153.01 Purpose and Intent                  153.07 Notice of Violation
153.02 Inspection of Stormwater Management 153.08 Stop Work Orders
Features
153.03 Right of Entry                      153.09 Enforcement and Penalties –
                                           Violations
153.04 Maintenance Requirements            153.10 Civil and Criminal Penalties
153.05 Installation and Maintenance        153.11 Restoration of Lands
Records
153.06 Failure to Maintain Drainage        153.12 Hold of Occupation Permits
Features
 
153.01   PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   1.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish erosion, sediment controls,
and inspection procedures for controlling the introduction of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) from developed or redeveloped
properties.
   2.   Post-construction stormwater inspections are limited to developed sites
of one acre in size (43,560 square feet) or greater. The City Engineer herein
grants an exemption to postconstruction inspections for sites less than one
acre, given the amount of impervious surface created is not in excess of 11,000
square feet (approximately one-fourth acre).
153.02   INSPECTION OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEATURES.
   1.   The City Engineer, or an authorized representative, shall establish and
maintain a stormwater inspection schedule that includes, but is not limited to:
      A.   Routine inspections;
      B.   Random inspections;
      C.   Inspections based upon public complaints;
      D.   Inspections based upon notice of possible violation;
      E.   Inspection of areas identified as having a higher than typical
potential for sediment or pollutant exposure, such as construction sites,
detention and retention basins;
      F.   Inspections of businesses or industries of a type associated with
discharges that are more likely than the typical discharge to cause violations
of State or federal water or sediment quality standards, or the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Phase II stormwater permit and
the Clean Water Act; and
      G.   Joint inspections with other agencies inspecting under environmental
or safety regulations as deemed necessary.
   2.   Inspections may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      A.   Evaluating the condition and current need for maintenance of
stormwater control features such as inlets, manholes, piping, detention and
retention basins.
      B.   Sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, sediment material,
or standing water in drainage control facilities as deemed necessary.
      C.   Reviewing maintenance and repair records of stormwater facilities.
      D.   Verification that stormwater facilities, approved during
construction plan review, such as detention basins, retention basins, piping,
and inlets are present and in good condition.
153.03   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   1.   The City Engineer, or an authorized representative bearing proper
credentials and identification, may enter and inspect properties within the
City for regular periodic inspections, random inspections, investigations,
monitoring, observation, measurement, enforcement, sampling, and testing, to
enforce federal, State, and local regulations related to the protection of
stormwater runoff quality and the City’s stormwater management program.
   2.   The City Engineer, or an authorized representative, shall duly notify
the owner of said property, or the representative of the owner on site, of the
inspection. The inspection shall be conducted at reasonable times during the
business day.
   3.   Right of entry includes the right to enter a property for routine and
random inspections, or when the City Engineer, or authorized representative,
has a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of federal, State, or local
regulations is occurring or has occurred. Following inspection, the City
Engineer shall require abatement or corrections of violations of stormwater
regulations.
153.04   MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   All stormwater management features shall undergo an annual inspection
to document maintenance and repair needs, and ensure compliance with
requirements of this chapter, federal, and State regulations.
   2.   Repair needs may include, but are not limited to, removal of silt,
litter, and other debris from all catch basins, inlets, and drainage pipes,
grass cutting, vegetation removal, replacement of landscape vegetation, and
maintenance to detention basins and retention basins.
   3.   Any maintenance needs found shall be addressed in a timely manner, as
determined by the City Engineer, and the inspection and maintenance frequency
may be increased or decreased as deemed necessary to ensure proper functioning
of the stormwater facilities.
153.05   INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE RECORDS.
   Parties responsible for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater
management facility shall maintain records of the installation, maintenance,
and repair of stormwater facilities. These records shall be made available to
inspection personnel upon request. Records shall be maintained for a period of
three years from the date of maintenance.
153.06   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN DRAINAGE FEATURES.
   1.   If a responsible party fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the
maintenance agreement, the City Engineer, after reasonable notice, may correct
a violation of the drainage facility or conduct necessary maintenance by
performing all necessary work to place the facility in proper working
condition.
   2.   In the event that the stormwater management facility becomes a danger
to public safety or public health, or violates federal, State, or local
regulations, the City Engineer shall notify the party responsible for
maintenance of the stormwater management facility in writing. Upon receipt of
that notice, the responsible person shall have 14 days from the date of the
notice to effect maintenance and repair of the facility in an approved manner.
After proper notice, the City may assess the owners of the facility for the
cost of repair work and any penalties, and the cost of the work shall be a lien
on the property, or prorated against the beneficial users of the property, and
may be placed on the tax bill and collected as ordinary taxes.
153.07   NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   When the City Engineer, or an authorized representative, determines that a
stormwater facility is in need of maintenance, in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter, the City Engineer shall issue a written notice of
violation to the owner of the property. The notice of violation shall contain:
   1.   The name and address of the owner or applicant;
   2.   The address or a description of the building, structure, or land upon
which the violation is occurring;
   3.   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
   4.   A stop work order as described in the following section;
   5.   A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the
development activity into compliance with this chapter;
   6.   A time schedule for the completion of such remedial action;
   7.   A statement of the penalty, or penalties, that shall be assessed
against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
   8.   A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the
City Engineer by filing a written notice of appeal within 10 days of service of
notice of violation.
153.08   STOP WORK ORDERS.
   1.   Persons receiving a notice of violation shall be required to halt
construction activities. This “stop work order” shall be in effect until the
City Engineer confirms that the development activity is in compliance and the
violation has been satisfactorily addressed.
   2.   Failure to address a notice of violation in a timely manner may result
in civil, criminal, or monetary penalties in accordance with the enforcement
measures authorized in this chapter.
153.09   ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES -- VIOLATIONS.
   Any development or redevelopment activity that is commenced or is conducted
contrary to this chapter may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in
a manner provided by law.
153.10   CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   In addition to, or as an alternative to, any penalty provided herein or by
law, any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be punished
by a fine of not less than $100.00, or by imprisonment for a period not to
exceed five days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Such person shall be
guilty of a separate offense for each day during which the violation occurs or
continues.
153.11   RESTORATION OF LANDS.
   Any person in violation of this chapter may be required to restore land to
an appropriate condition as determined by the City Engineer. In the event that
restoration is not undertaken within a reasonable time after notice, the City
Engineer may take necessary corrective action, the cost of which shall become a
lien upon the property until paid in full.
153.12   HOLD OF OCCUPATION PERMITS.
   Occupation permits shall not be granted until corrections to all stormwater
facilities have been completed and accepted by the City Engineer.
CHAPTER 154
POST-CONSTRUCTION SITE INSPECTION PROGRAM
 
154.01 Purpose                         154.05 Inspection, Maintenance, and
                                       Repair Requirements
154.02 Applicability                   154.06 Right of Entry
154.03 Compatibility With Other Permit 154.07 Approval of Program
and Ordinances Requirement
154.04 Definitions                      
 
154.01   PURPOSE.
   1.   Land development and associated projects increase the impervious cover
and alter the hydrologic response of local watersheds and increase stormwater
runoff rates and volumes, flooding, stream channel erosion, and sediment
transport and deposition. The altered stormwater runoff contributes to
increased quantities of water-borne pollutants, soil erosion, non-point source
pollution, and transportation of trash and debris. While these items can be
controlled and minimized through the regulation of stormwater runoff from
development sites, they may still impact the stormwater system.
   2.   Therefore, the City establishes this stormwater best management
practices (BMP) post-construction site inspection program to provide reasonable
guidance for the maintenance and repair of the stormwater system. It is
determined that the stormwater runoff discharges from developed land increases
the stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, stream channel erosion,
transportation of trash and debris, and nonpoint source pollution; and it is in
the public interest to attempt to prevent threats to public health and safety
due to the altered stormwater runoff.
154.02   APPLICABILITY.
   This program shall be applicable to all land developments that are bound by
the post-construction erosion and sediment control ordinance, as codified in
Chapter 153 of this Code of Ordinances.
154.03   COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER PERMIT AND ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   This program is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any
ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or other provision of law. The
requirements of this program should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this program imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law,
whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards
for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
154.04   DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   1.   “Accelerated erosion” means erosion caused by development activities
that exceeds the natural processes by which the surface of the land is worn
away by the action of water, wind, or chemical action.
   2.   “BMP” means best management practices.
   3.   “Channel” means a natural or artificial watercourse, with a definite
bed and banks, that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
   4.   “Detention basin” means the temporary storage of storm runoff in a
stormwater management practice with the goals of controlling peak discharge
rates and providing gravity settling of pollutants.
   5.   “Inspection” means the physical review of embankments, intakes,
outlets, retention basins, detention basins, sand filters, or any other
component of the stormwater runoff system.
   6.   “Land development” means any activity which changes the volume or peak
flow discharge rate of rainfall runoff from the land surface. This may include
the grading, digging, cutting, scraping, or excavating of soil, placement of
fill materials, paving, construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any
activity which bares soil or rock or involves the diversion or piping of any
natural or manmade watercourse.
   7.   “Nonpoint source pollution” means pollution from any source other than
from any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyances, and shall include,
but not be limited to, pollutants from agricultural, silvicultural, mining,
construction, subsurface disposal, and urban runoff sources.
   8.   “Stormwater runoff” means flow on the surface of the ground resulting
from precipitation.
   9.   “Stormwater system” means the structural or non-structural items used
to filter, divert, retain, detain, channel, or carry stormwater runoff away
from the site to either a public stormwater sewer or a watercourse.
   10.   “Watercourse” means a permanent or intermittent stream or other body
of water, either natural or man-made, which gathers or carries surface water.
154.05   INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPAIR REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Property owners are required to have annual inspections to ensure
proper function of the stormwater system and to determine if any maintenance or
repairs are required. All inspection, maintenance, and repair logs shall be
kept and made available for review by the City. Every three years the property
owner is required to have a professional engineer certify that the BMP is
functioning properly as designed. The professional engineer shall submit the
annual inspection form and use it as guidance, but is expected that a complete
inspection of the stormwater BMPs’ condition be conducted. This should include
assessment of underground systems, filter media, infiltration capabilities,
vegetation condition and coverage, etc. A supplemental narrative may be
necessary to complete a full assessment.
   2.   Maintenance and repair may include, but are not limited to, removal of
silt, litter, and other debris from all catch basins, inlets, and drainage
pipes; grass cutting and vegetation removal; and necessary replacement of
landscape vegetation. Any maintenance needs found must be addressed in a timely
manner, as determined by the City, and the inspection and maintenance
requirement may be increased as deemed necessary to ensure proper functioning
of the stormwater system.
   3.   The reports shall be submitted to the City by July 1 of each year, no
earlier than 60 days prior. A separate report is required for each BMP covered
under the project’s approved stormwater management plan.
   4.   The City, in lieu of a maintenance program, may accept dedication of
any existing or future stormwater system for maintenance, provided such
facility meets all the requirements set forth by the City.
154.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   1.   The property owner shall grant to the City the right to enter the
property at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of
inspection. This includes the right to enter a property when it has a
reasonable basis to believe that a there is a stormwater system “issue”
occurring or has occurred, and to enter when necessary for abatement of a
public nuisance or correction of a stormwater system issue.
   2.   Each year the City will conduct “spot” checks of stormwater BMPs to
ensure compliance. A minimum of one-third of all BMPs will be “spot” checked
each year by the City. Should a BMP be found to require maintenance or repair,
a letter will be sent to the property owner, and follow-up will be requested.
The letter will detail the deficiencies found. Should the property owner fail
to maintain the stormwater BMP, enforcement actions may be taken by the City
per Sections 153.09 and 153.10 of the Post-Construction Erosion and Sediment
Control Ordinance, as codified in this Code of Ordinances.
154.07   APPROVAL OF PROGRAM.
   This stormwater best management practices post-construction site inspection
program has been made and accepted by the City.
CHAPTER 155
CONSTRUCTION CODES
 
155.01 Construction Codes            155.03 Permit Required
155.02 Plumbing and Mechanical Codes  
 
155.01   CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   Pursuant to an agreement by and between the City and the City of Evansdale,
Iowa, the construction code in the Evansdale, Iowa, Code of Ordinances, as it
may be amended from time to time, is applicable to all construction within the
City and shall be administered by the Evansdale Inspector, except for the legal
enforcement of violations thereof.
155.02   PLUMBING AND MECHANICAL CODES.
   The City adopts, by reference, the plumbing and mechanical codes in the
Evansdale, Iowa, Code of Ordinances.
155.03   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, convert, or demolish any building or structure in the City, or cause
the same to be done, without first obtaining a separate building permit for
each such building or structure from the City, and unless such work is
completed in accordance with this chapter.
 
 
CHAPTER 156
ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION
156.01  Purpose and Intent               156.13  Monitoring of Discharges
156.02 Definitions                       156.14 Notification of Spills
156.03 Applicability                     156.15 Enforcement Notice of Violation
156.04 Stormwater Management Program     156.16  Appeal of Notice of Violation
156.05 Exempted Non-Stormwater           156.17  Enforcement Measures After
Discharges                               Appeal
156.06 Illicit Discharges and Illicit    156.18 Cost of Abatement of the
Connections Prohibited                   Violations
156.07 Illicit Discharge Items           156.19 Injunctive Relief
156.08 Stormwater Monitoring Sites       156.20 Compensatory Action
156.09 Watercourse Protection            156.21  Violations Deemed a Public
                                         Nuisance
156.10 Requirement to Prevent Control,   156.22 Municipal Infraction
and Reduce
Stormwater Pollutants By the Use of Best 156.23  Remedies Not Exclusive
Management Practices (BMPS)
156.11 Suspension of Discharge Rights    156.24 Abrogation and Greater
Due to Illicit Discharges in Emergency   Restrictions
Situations
156.12 Suspension of Action Due to the
Detection of Illicit Discharge in        156.25 Ultimate Responsibility
Nonemergency Situations
 
156.01   PURPOSE AND INTENT.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the City through the regulation of non-stormwater
discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4), to the maximum
extent practicable, as required by federal and State law. The ordinance
codified in this chapter establishes methods for controlling the introduction
of pollutants into the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) in order to
comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) Phase II Permit and the Federal Clean Water Act. The objectives of this
chapter are to:
   1.   Establish legal authority to conduct inspection and monitoring
procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   2.   Investigate and eliminate, to the maximum extent practicable, the
contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by stormwater discharges introduced by
system users; and
   3.   Prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4.
156.02   DEFINITIONS.
1.   Terms or acronyms used in this chapter shall, unless defined in this
chapter, have the meaning given to them in Section 1.02, “Definitions,” of this
Code of Ordinances.
2.   “City Engineer” means any other representative of the City Engineer’s
office that is designated by the City Engineer to act in the place and with the
authority of the City Engineer.
156.03   APPLICABILITY.
This chapter shall apply to all water entering the MS4, generated on developed
or undeveloped lands, unless explicitly exempted by the NPDES permit, federal
and State regulations and the Council.
156.04   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.
Authority of City Engineer with regard to illicit discharge.
   1.   The City Engineer shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   2.   With respect to the City’s compliance with the NPDES Phase II Permit
regulations, the City Engineer may do the following in relation to illicit
discharge detection and elimination:
      A.   Carry out all inspections, monitoring and enforcement procedures
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter;
      B.   Administer the City’s compliance with the NPDES MS4 permit to
discharge stormwater;
      C.   Create, promote, and distribute to citizens educational program
materials related to stormwater pollution prevention;
      D.   Investigate potential stormwater pollution violations that are
within the City limits on residential, commercial, industrial and City owned
properties for the presence of illicit discharges as defined by this chapter
that may contaminate stormwater runoff;
      E.   Review and enforce remediation programs as required for properties
where illicit discharge to the storm sewer system are found to exist;
      F.   Develop programs to control the discharge of pollutants, and the
dumping or disposal of materials other than stormwater (e.g., industrial and
commercial waste, trash, motor vehicle fluids, yard waste, grass clippings,
animal waste, etc.) into the MS4;
      G.   Acquire and authorize testing of water samples through field-testing
programs;
      H.   Audit City use of herbicides, fertilizers, and pesticides to
determine compliance with federal and State regulations and recommend
alternative solutions where practicable for the reduction of the use of these
items through education and outreach programs; and
      I.   Audit City department procedures to confirm that the City is in
compliance with federal and State NPDES regulations and determine if the City
has obtained, and is in compliance with, permits required by federal and State
environmental laws.
156.05   EXEMPTED NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGES.
The following non-stormwater discharges are exempt from the discharge
prohibitions of this chapter, unless a particular discharge has been determined
to be a substantial contributor of pollutants to the MS4 and the discharge
continues more than 10 days after delivery of written notice of such
determination to the discharger:
   1.   Firefighting activities that are necessary due to an immediate danger
to life or property;
   2.   Fire hydrant flushing;
   3.   Potable water sources;
   4.   Water line flushing;
   5.   Uncontaminated groundwater;
   6.   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
   7.   Crawl space pump water;
   8.   Natural springs;
   9.   Natural riparian habitat or wetland flows;
   10.   Irrigation water (except for wastewater irrigation);
   11.   Air conditioning condensation;
   12.   Exterior building wash water when no detergents or other surfactants
are used;
   13.   Pavement wash waters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred and when no detergents or other surfactants are
used (unless all spilled material has been removed);
   14.   Diverted stream flows;
   15.   Storm sewer system cleaning water;
   16.   Residential or noncommercial washing of vehicles;
   17.   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharge less than one PPM chlorine;
   18.   Residual street wash water;
   19.   Dechlorinated water from reservoir discharges;
   20.   Foundation or footing drains where flows are not contaminated with
process materials such as solvents (not including active groundwater dewatering
systems);
   21.   Discharges specified in writing by the City Engineer as being
necessary to protect public health and safety of citizens;
   22.   Dye-testing procedures (requires a verbal notification to the City
Engineer prior to the time of the test); and
   23.   Any other water source not containing pollutants, as approved by the
City Engineer.
156.06   ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND ILLICIT CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the MS4 any
materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants, or waters containing any
pollutants, that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater.
   2.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the MS4 is prohibited.
   3.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   4.   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the person
connects a line conveying a pollutant to the MS4 or allows such a connection to
continue. The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under this chapter, an NPDES Permit, waiver, or waste discharge order
issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal
Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of this chapter, the permit, waiver, or order
and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval
has been granted for any discharge to the MS4.
156.07   ILLICIT DISCHARGE ITEMS.
The following direct or indirect discharges into community waters, waters of
the State, or waters of the United States are, without limitation, examples of
illicit discharges. This listing of discharges is not intended to be
exhaustive, nor shall it be construed as such, but is illustrative only.
   1.   Sewage dumping or dumping of sewage sludge;
   2.   Chlorinated swimming pool discharge with chlorine concentrations
greater that one PPM;
   3.   Discharge of any polluted household wastewater, such as, but not
limited to, laundry wash water and dishwater, except to a sanitary sewer or
septic system;
   4.   Leaking sanitary sewers and connections, which have remained
uncorrected for a period of time as indicated in the NPDES Permit issued to the
City by the department;
   5.   Commercial, industrial or nonexempt public vehicle wash or power wash
discharge;
   6.   Dead animals or animal fecal waste;
   7.   Non-stormwater discharges, except those allowed pursuant to a permit
issued by IDNR;
   8.   Concrete truck wash water;
   9.   Dredged material from waterways;
   10.   Spoil material such as sediment runoff from construction sites;
   11.   Chemical waste;
   12.   Hazardous waste;
   13.   Runoff from discarded vehicles or equipment;
   14.   Garbage;
   15.   Rubbish;
   16.   Yard waste;
   17.   Floatable materials; and
   18.   Any other item deemed a pollutant as designated by the City Engineer.
156.08   STORMWATER MONITORING SITES.
The City Engineer shall monitor concentration of pollutants in stormwater
discharges from locations as designated in the City Stormwater Management
Program, or as otherwise determined by the City Engineer.
156.09   WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
Every person owning property in the City through which a watercourse passes, or
other responsible person, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse
that is within their property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and
other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the
flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or other
responsible person shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or
adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures shall not become a hazard to
the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
156.10   REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT CONTROL AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY THE
USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS).
   1.   The City Engineer may adopt requirements identifying best management
practices (BMPs) for any activity, operation, or facility that may cause or
contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater runoff in the MS4.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the requirements of this section shall
not apply to any activity, operation, or facility that is subject to an NPDES
Permit that governs the stormwater runoff or discharges of such activity,
operation, or facility, except as may be necessary for the owner or operator to
comply with requirements of the applicable NPDES Permit.
   2.   The owner or operator of a nonresidential establishment shall provide,
at its own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other wastes into the MS4 or watercourses through the
use of structural and nonstructural BMPs.
   3.   Any person responsible for a property or premises which is, or may be,
the source of an illicit discharge may be required to implement, at the
person’s expense, additional structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance, to the maximum extent
practicable, with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES Permit authorizing
the discharge of stormwater associated with any activity, operation, or
facility shall be deemed in compliance with the provisions of this section.
Structural and nonstructural BMPs shall be part of a Stormwater Pollution
PreventionPplan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of an
applicable NPDES Permit.
156.11   SUSPENSION OF DISCHARGE RIGHTS DUE TO ILLICIT DISCHARGES IN EMERGENCY
SITUATIONS.
   1.   The City Engineer may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
rights to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop actual or
threatened discharge that presents, or may present, imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4. If the
violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the
City Engineer may take such steps as are, in the discretion of the City
Engineer, deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4, or to
minimize danger to persons.
   2.   A person violates this chapter if the person reinstates MS4 discharge
to premises terminated pursuant to this chapter, without the prior written
approval of the City Engineer.
156.12   SUSPENSION OF ACTION DUE TO THE DETECTION OF ILLICIT DISCHARGE IN
NONEMERGENCY SITUATIONS.
   1.   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have
their MS4 discharge rights terminated if such termination would abate or reduce
an illicit discharge. The City Engineer shall notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 discharge rights no less than 30 days before the date of
proposed termination. The violator may petition the City Engineer for a
reconsideration and hearing.
   2.   A person violates this chapter if the person reinstates MS4 discharge
to a premises terminated pursuant to this chapter, without the prior written
approval of the City Engineer.
156.13   MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
    1.   The City Engineer, bearing proper credentials and identification, may
enter and inspect properties within the City if there is reasonable cause to
believe that an illicit discharge to the MS4 is occurring. These inspections
may include investigations, monitoring, observation, measurement, enforcement,
sampling, and testing, to determine if suspected discharge is in fact illicit.
   2.   The City Engineer shall duly notify the owner of the property, or the
representative of the owner or other responsible person on-site, of the
inspection. The inspection shall be conducted at reasonable times during the
course of the business day.
   3.   In the event the City Engineer reasonably believes that discharges from
the property into the MS4 may cause an imminent and substantial threat to human
health or the environment, the inspection may take place without notice to the
owner of the property or a representative on-site. The inspector shall present
proper credentials upon reasonable request by the owner or the owner’s
representative when contacted.
   4.   Upon refusal by any property owner to permit an inspector to enter a
site or continue an inspection, the inspector shall terminate the inspection or
confine the inspection to areas to which no objection is raised. The inspector
shall immediately report the refusal, and the grounds of the refusal, to the
City Engineer. The City Engineer may seek appropriate compulsory process.
   5.   The City Engineer shall have the right to place devices on the property
necessary, in the discretion of the City Engineer, to conduct monitoring or
sampling of discharges.
156.14   NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
Notwithstanding any other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for an activity, operation, or facility, or responsible for
emergency response for an activity, operation, or facility, has information of
any known or suspected release of materials which are resulting or may result
in illicit discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the stormwater
drainage system, waters of the State, or waters of the United States from such
activity, operation, or facility, such person shall take all necessary steps to
ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of
such a release of hazardous material such person shall immediately notify
emergency response officials of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services
(911). In the event of a release of nonhazardous materials, such person shall
notify the City Engineer in person or by phone or facsimile no later than 5:00
p.m. the next business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be
confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the City Engineer within
three business days of the telephonic notice. If the discharge of prohibited
materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or
operator shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the
actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at
least three years.
156.15   ENFORCEMENT NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
When the City Engineer finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed
to meet a requirement of this chapter, the City Engineer shall notify the
property owner or other responsible person in writing. This written notice may
be delivered by ordinary mail to the property owner or other responsible person
at its last known address. Such notice shall include:
   1.   Name of the property owner;
   2.   Date and the location of the violation;
   3.   Description of the violation;
   4.   Actions that must be taken by the property owner to remedy the
violation, including, but not limited to, the elimination of illicit discharges
and connections, the performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting, and
the implementation of source control or treatment BMPs;
   5.   Deadline by which the required actions must be completed;
   6.   Notice date;
   7.   Restoration procedures to property, if any; and
   8.   Amount of administrative and remediation fines, fees, or costs, if any.
The notice shall also advise that, if the violator fails to take required
remedial action within the stated deadline, the work may be done by a
designated governmental agency or a private contractor, in either case at the
sole expense of the violator.
156.16   APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
City Engineer. The notice of appeal must be received within 14 days from the
date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the Council, or
other designated committee, shall take place within 14 days from the date of
receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the Council shall be
considered final.
156.17   ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 14 days of
the decision of the Council upholding the decision of the City Engineer, the
City Engineer shall enter upon the subject property and take measures necessary
to abate the violation or restore the property to an acceptable condition. It
is unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the City, or the City’s
designated contractor, to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
156.18   COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
After abatement of the violation, the owner of the property shall be notified
of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner
may, within fourteen (14) days following notice of abatement costs, file a
written protest objecting to the amount of the assessment. If the amount due is
not paid within a timely manner as determined by the City Engineer, the
assessment shall constitute a lien on the property pursuant to Section 384.84
of the Code of Iowa. Any abatement costs not paid in full within 30 days of
final determination shall bear interest at the rate of 10 percent per annum
until paid in full.
156.19   INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
It is unlawful for any person to violate, or fail to comply with, any of the
requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated, or continues to
violate, the provisions of this chapter, the City Engineer may petition for a
preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from activities
which would create further violations or compelling the person to perform
abatement or remediation of the violation.
156.20   COMPENSATORY ACTION.
In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by this
chapter, the City Engineer may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory
action. These actions may include, but are not limited to, storm drain
labeling, attendance at stormwater pollution prevention compliance workshops,
the cleanup of local waterways or creeks, or other activity as determined
appropriate by the City Engineer. The failure of any person to complete any
compensatory actions imposed by the City Engineer shall be a violation of this
chapter.
156.21   VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be considered a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and
is declared and deemed a nuisance. This nuisance may be summarily abated or
restored at the violator’s expense, or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or
otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
156.22   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
   1.   A violation of this chapter constitutes a municipal infraction under
this Code of Ordinances.
   2.   In addition to any fine or penalty, the City may recover all legal
fees, court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this
chapter, including necessary sampling and monitoring expenses.
156.23   REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, State, or local law. It is within the
discretion of the City Engineer to seek cumulative remedies if necessary.
156.24   ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and another
ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflicts or overlaps in
jurisdiction, whichever regulation imposes the greater restriction shall be
enforced.
156.25   ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
The standards set forth in this chapter and promulgated pursuant to this
chapter are minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor
imply that compliance by any person shall ensure that there will be no
contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants into the
MS4, waters of the State, or waters of the United States.
(Chapter 156 – Ord. 292 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 157
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
 
 
157.01  Acronyms and Definitions        157.06 Stormwater Management Enterprise
                                        Fund
157.02 Purpose, Intent, and Objectives  157.07 Establishment of Stormwater
                                        Management Fee
157.03 Duties and Authority of the City 157.08  Stormwater Management Fee
Engineer, General                       Exemptions
157.04 Council Discretion to Provide    157.09  Collection of Stormwater
For, Approve Improvements to, the       Management Fees
Stormwater Drainage System
157.05 Stormwater Management Authority  157.10 Appeal or Adjustment of
                                        Stormwater Management Fee
 
157.01   ACRONYMS AND DEFINITIONS.
The following acronyms, terms, and phrases when used in this chapter of this
Code of Ordinances shall have the designated meaning ascribed to them in this
section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   1.   Acronyms.
      A.   BMP – Best Management Practice
      B.   CFR – Code of Federal Regulations
      C.   CWA – Clean Water Act
      D.   FEMA – Federal Emergency Management Agency
      E.   HHW – Household Hazardous Waste
      F.   IDNR – Iowa Department of Natural Resources
      G.   IDOT – Iowa Department of Transportation
      H.   MS4 – Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
      I.   NOI – Notice of Intent
      J.   NOT – Notice of Termination
      K.   NOV – Notice of Violation
      L.   NPDES – National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
      M.   NPS – Non-Point Source
      N.   NRCS – National Resource Conservation Service
      O.   RCRA – Resource Conservation Recovery Act of 1976
      P.   SMCRA – Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977
      Q.   SWPPP – Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan
      R.   TMDL – Total Maximum Daily Load
      S.   US EPA – United States Environmental Protection Agency
      T.   USDA – United States Department of Agriculture
      U.   USGS – United States Geodetic Survey
   2.   Words beginning with “A.”
      A.   “Adverse impacts” mean any negative impact on plant, soil, air, or
water resources affecting their beneficial uses including recreation,
aesthetics, aquatic habitat, quality and quantity.
      B.   “Allowable non-stormwater discharges” means discharge from
firefighting activities that are necessary due to an immediate danger to life
or property; fire hydrant flushing; potable water sources; water line flushing;
uncontaminated groundwater; uncontaminated pumped groundwater; crawl space pump
water; natural springs; natural riparian habitat or wetland flows; irrigation
water (except for wastewater irrigation); air conditioning condensation;
exterior building wash water when no detergents or other surfactants are used;
pavement wash waters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous materials have
not occurred and when no detergents or other surfactants are used (unless all
spilled material has been removed); diverted stream flows; storm sewer system
cleaning water; residential or noncommercial washing of vehicles; dechlorinated
swimming pool discharge less than one PPM chlorine; residual street wash water;
dechlorinated water from reservoir discharges; foundation or footing drains
where flows are not contaminated with process materials such as solvents (not
including active groundwater dewatering systems); discharges specified in
writing by the City Engineer as being necessary to protect public health and
safety of citizens; dye testing procedures (requires a verbal notification to
the City Engineer prior to the time of the test); and any other water source
not containing pollutants, as approved by the City Engineer.
      C.   “Animal waste” See pet waste.
      D.   “Applicant” means any person, firm, or governmental agency who
executes the necessary forms to procure official approval of a development or
permit. In gaining official approval, the person, firm or governmental agency
intends to carry out construction of a new development or redevelopment.
   3.   Words beginning with “B.”
      A.   “Base flood elevation” means the elevation at all locations
delineating the level of flooding resulting from the one-hundred-year frequency
flood event. The one-hundred-year flood event has a one percent probability of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
      B.   “Best management practices (BMPs)” means schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures and other management
practices to prevent or reduce the pollution of waters of the state. BMPs also
include treatment requirements, operating procedures and practices to control
facility site runoff, spillage, or leaks, sludge or waste disposal or drainage
from raw material storage.
      C.   “Building official” means City official or other designated
authority charged with the administration and enforcement of the City building
codes.
      D.   “Building permit” means permit issued for the construction, erection
or alteration of a structure or building and the related ground and surface
preparation prior to and after completion of construction, erection, or
alteration of a structure or building.
      E.   “By-pass flow” means stormwater runoff from upstream properties
tributary to a property’s drainage system but not under its control.
   4.   Words beginning with “C.”
      A.   “Calendar quarter” means each of the following periods: December
through February, March through May, June through August, and September through
November.
      B.   “Certify or certification” means formally attesting that the
specific inspections and tests were performed, and that such inspections and
tests comply with the applicable requirements of this chapter.
      C.   “Channel” means any defined river, stream, creek, brook, natural or
artificial depression, ponded area, on-stream lake or impoundment, abandoned
mine, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully, ravine, wash, or natural
or man-made drainage way, which has a definite bed and bank or shoreline, in or
into which surface or groundwater flows, either perennially or intermittently.
      D.   “Channel modification” means the alteration of a channel by changing
the physical dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification
includes, but is not limited to, damming, placement of riprap (or other
armoring), filling, widening, deepening, straightening, relocating, lining, and
significant removal of bottom or woody rooted vegetation. Channel modification
does not include the clearing of debris or removal of trash.
      E.   “City Engineer” means the professional engineer registered in the
State of Iowa who is designated as City Engineer by the Council.
      F.   “Clean Water Act (CWA)” means the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C. Section 1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
(Formerly referred to as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act or Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972).
      G.   “Clearing” means any activity which removes vegetative ground cover.
      H.   “Commercial” means pertaining to any business, trade, industry, or
other activity engaged in for profit.
      I.   “Compensatory storage” means an artificially excavated,
hydraulically equivalent volume of storage within the floodplain used to
balance the loss of natural flood storage capacity when fill or structures are
placed within the floodplain.
      J.   “Conduit” means any channel, pipe, sewer, or culvert used for the
conveyance or movement of water, whether open or closed.
      K.   “Construction site” means any location where clearing, grading,
filling, paving, construction, or other activity occurs related to a change or
improvement of property.
      L.   “Contaminated” means containing harmful quantities of pollutants.
      M.   “Contractor” means any person or firm performing or managing
construction work at a construction site, including any construction manager,
general contractor or subcontractor. Also includes, but is not limited to,
earthwork paving, building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, or landscaping
contractors, and material suppliers delivering materials to the site.
   5.   Words beginning with “D.”
      A.   “Department” means the Iowa Department of Natural Resources (IDNR)
or an authorized representative.
      B.   “Detention basin” means a facility constructed or modified to
provide for the temporary storage of stormwater runoff and the controlled
release of this runoff at a prescribed rate during and after a flood or storm.
      C.   “Detention time” means the amount of time stormwater is held within
a detention basin.
      D.   “Developed property” means land that is altered from a natural state
by grading or construction activity for the purpose of constructing
residential, commercial, industrial, or institutional facilities such that the
hydrology of the property is affected.
      E.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved
real estate, including, but not limited to, building or other structures,
mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
      F.   “Discharge” means the release of water, and any elements, compounds,
and particles contained within or upon released water, from property owned or
controlled by any person.
      G.   “Discharger” means any person who causes, allows, permits, or is
otherwise responsible for a discharge, including, without limitation, any owner
of a construction site or industrial facility.
      H.   “Domestic sewage” means sewage originating primarily from kitchen,
bathroom and laundry sources, including waste from food preparation,
dishwashing, garbage grinding, toilets, baths, showers, and sinks.
      I.   “Drainage plan” means a plan, including engineering drawings and
supporting calculations, which describes the existing stormwater drainage
system and environmental features, including grading, as well as proposed
alterations or changes to the drainage system and environment of a property.
Also see Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP).
      J.   “Dry basin” means a detention basin designed to drain after
temporary storage of stormwater flows and to normally be dry over much of its
bottom area.
   6.   Words beginning with “E.”
      A.   “Earthwork” means the disturbance of soils on a site associated with
clearing, grading, or excavation activities.
      B.   “Erosion” means the general process whereby soil or earth is moved
by rainfall, flowing water, wind, or wave action.
      C.   “Excavation” means any act by which organic matter, earth, sand,
gravel, rock or any other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried,
uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated or bulldozed, and shall include the
conditions resulting from such actions.
      D.   “Excess stormwater runoff” means the volume and rate of flow of
stormwater discharged from a new development or redevelopment, which is or will
be in excess of that volume and rate which existed before development or
redevelopment.
      E.   “Existing grade” means the vertical location of the existing ground
surface prior to excavation or filling.
   7.   Words beginning with “F.”
      A.   “Facility” means an entity which discharges stormwater.
      B.   “Fertilizer” means a substance or compound that contains an
essential plant nutrient element in a form available to plants and is used
primarily for its essential plant nutrient element content in promoting or
stimulating growth of a plant or improving the quality of a crop, or a mixture
of two or more fertilizers.
      C.   “Fill” means any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any
other material is deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled,
transported or moved by man to a new location, and shall include the conditions
resulting therefrom.
      D.   “Final grade” means the vertical location of the ground surface
after grading work is completed in accordance with the plans.
      E.   “Fire protection water” means any water, and any substances or
materials contained therein, used by any person to control or extinguish a
fire, or to inspect or test fire equipment.
   8.   Words beginning with “G.”
      A.   “Garbage” means animal and vegetable waste materials from the
handling, preparation, cooking or consumption of food, including waste
materials from markets, storage facilities, and the handling and sale of
produce and other food products. Also, refuse and other unwanted and useless
material.
      B.   “Grading” means any act of excavation or fill of land surface to a
desired slope or elevation, or any combination thereof, and shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
      C.   “Groundwater” means any water residing below the surface of the
ground or percolating into or out of the ground.
   9.   Words beginning with “H.”
      A.   “Harmful quantity” means the amount of any substance that the
appropriate official determines will cause an adverse impact to storm drainage
system or will contribute to the failure of the jurisdiction to meet the water
quality-based requirements of the NPDES Permit for discharges from the MS4.
      B.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance listed in Table 302.4 of
40 CFR Part 302.
      C.   “Hazardous waste” means any substance identified or listed as a
hazardous waste by the EPA pursuant to 40 CFR Part 261.
      D.   “Household hazardous waste (HHW)” means any material generated in a
household (including single and multiple residences) that would be classified
as hazardous by the IDNR or US EPA or by any rule or regulation promulgated by
either agency.
      E.   “Hydrograph” means a graph showing, for a given location on a stream
or conduit, the flow rate with respect to time.
      F.   “Hydrograph method” means a method that estimates runoff volume and
runoff hydrographs for a point of interest by generating hydrographs for
individual subareas, combining them, and routing them through stream lengths
and reservoir structures. Factors such as rainfall amount and distribution,
runoff curve number, time of concentration, and travel time are included.
   10.   Words beginning with “I.”
      A.   “Illegal discharge” See illicit discharge below.
      B.   “Illicit connection” means any drain or conveyance, whether on the
surface or subsurface, which allow an illicit discharge to enter the MS4.
      C.   “Illicit discharge” means any discharge to the MS4 that is
prohibited under this chapter of this Code of Ordinances.
      D.   “Impervious surface” means a hard-surfaced area that prevents or
retards the entry of water into the soil. An impervious surface may cause water
to runoff the surface in greater quantities, or at an increased rate of flow,
than was present under natural conditions. Impervious surfaces include, but are
not limited to, roof tops, asphalt or concrete streets, sidewalks, driveway
paving, parking lots, walkways, patio areas, storage areas, gravel, bituminous
substances, or other surfaces which similarly affect the natural infiltration,
or runoff patterns, of real property in the natural state with existing
groundcover.
      E.   “Industrial waste (commercial waste)” means any wastes produced as a
by-product of any industrial, institutional or commercial process or operation,
other than domestic sewage.
      F.   “Infiltration” means the passage or movement of water into the
ground.
   11.   Words beginning with “J.”
   12.   Words beginning with “K.”
   13.   Words beginning with “L.”
      A.   “Land disturbing activity” means the process of disturbing existing
groundcover, excavation of existing site material, or the placement of fill
material on a site, related to a man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including, but not limited to, building or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
      B.   “Loessal soil” means sediment, commonly non stratified and
unconsolidated, composed predominately of silt-sized particles with accessory
clay and sand.
      C.   “Lot” means a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet
minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage and area to provide such yards
and other open space as are required in this chapter. No portion of an
established floodway area lying within a lot or any access drive through a
property shall be used in computing the number of dwelling units to be
constructed. Such lot shall have frontage on a public street or private street
and may consist of:
         (1)   A single lot of record;
         (2)   A portion of a lot of record;
         (3)   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of
record, and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record; and
         (4)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in
no case of division or combination shall any residential lot or parcel be
created which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   14.   Words beginning with “M.”
      A.   “Major drainage system” means that portion of a drainage system
needed to store and convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor drainage
system.
      B.   “May” signifies an act that is discretionary.
      C.   “Mechanical fluid” means any fluid used in the operation and
maintenance of machinery, vehicles and any other equipment, including
lubricants, antifreeze, petroleum products, oil and fuel.
      D.   “Minor drainage system” means a portion of a drainage system
designed for the convenience of the public. It consists of street gutters,
storm sewers, small open channels and swales.
      E.   “Mitigation” means activity necessary when the prescribed controls
are not sufficient and additional measures are required to offset the
development, including those measures necessary to minimize the negative
effects which stormwater drainage and development activities might have on the
public health, safety, and welfare. Examples of mitigation include, but are not
limited to, compensatory storage, soil erosion and sedimentation control, and
channel restoration.
      F.   “Mobile commercial cosmetic cleaning or mobile washing” means power
washing, steam cleaning, and any other method of mobile cosmetic cleaning of
vehicles or exterior surfaces, engaged in for commercial purposes or related to
a commercial activity.
      G.   “Municipal separate storm sewer System (MS4)” means the conveyance
or system of conveyances, including storm sewers, roadways, roads with drainage
systems, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, constructed channels and storm
drains, owned or operated by the City.
   15.   Words beginning with “N.”
      A.   “Natural” means conditions resulting from physical, chemical, and
biological processes without intervention by man.
      B.   “Natural drainage” means channels formed in the existing surface
topography of the earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
      C.   “NPDES” means the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      D.   “National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Phase II
Permit” means a permit issued by the US EPA or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. Section l 342(b) that authorizes the discharge
of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable
on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
      E.   “Non-stormwater discharge” any discharge that to the MS4 that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
      F.   “Notice of violation” means a written notice detailing any
violations of this chapter and any action expected of the violators.
   16.   Words beginning with “O.”
      A.   “Oil” means any kind of oil in any form, including, but not limited
to, petroleum, fuel oil, crude oil, synthetic oil, motor oil, cooking oil,
grease, sludge, oil refuse, and oil mixed with waste.
      B.   “One-hundred-year event” means a rainfall, runoff, or flood event
having a one percent probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year. Twenty-four-hour storm duration is assumed unless otherwise noted.
      C.   “One-year event” means a rainfall, runoff, or flood event having a
one hundred percent probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Twenty-four-hour storm duration is assumed unless otherwise noted.
      D.   “Outfall” means the point at which water or any other material
leaves or may leave the MS4 and also means the point at which water or any
other material leaves or may leave an enclosed conveyance that is part of the
MS4 and enters an open conveyance that is also part of the MS4.
      E.   “Owner” means the person who owns a facility, part of a facility or
land.
      F.   “Parcel” means a contiguous lot or tract of land under one
ownership. A lot or tract of land is a land intended as a unit for the purpose
of use, development or transfer of ownership.
   17.   Words beginning with “P.”
      A.   “Peak flow” means the maximum rate of flow of water at a given point
in a channel or conduit.
      B.   “Permittee” means the City or jurisdiction.
      C.   “Person” means any individual, partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association. joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns, including all federal, State, and local governmental entities.
      D.   “Pesticide” means a substance or mixture of substances intended to
prevent, destroy, repel, or migrate any pest.
      E.   “Pet waste (or animal waste)” means excrement and other waste from
domestic animals.
      F.   “Petroleum product” means a product that is obtained from distilling
and processing crude oil and that is capable of being used as a fuel or
lubricant in a motor vehicle or aircraft, including motor oil, motor gasoline,
gasohol, other alcohol-blended fuels, aviation gasoline, kerosene, distillate
fuel oil, and No. 1 and No. 2 diesel.
      G.   “Point source” means any discernible, confined, and discrete
conveyance, including, but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel,
conduit, well, discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal
feeding operation, landfill leachate collection system, vessel or other
floating craft from which pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does
not include return flows from irrigated agriculture or agricultural stormwater
runoff.
      H.   “Pollutant” means any item that may alter stormwater from a natural
state. Pollutants may include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes,
solvents, oil, automotive fluids, solid wastes, yard wastes, refuse, rubbish,
garbage, litter, discarded or abandoned objects, pesticides, herbicides,
fertilizers, sewage, fecal coliform, heavy metals, animal wastes, sediment from
construction sites, and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
      I.   “Pollution” means the alteration of the physical, thermal, chemical,
or biological quality of, or the contamination of, any water that renders the
water harmful, detrimental, or injurious to humans, animal life, plant life,
property, or public health, safety, or welfare, or impairs the usefulness or
the public enjoyment of the water for any lawful or reasonable purpose.
      J.   “Positive drainage” means provision for overland paths for all areas
of a property, including depression areas that may also be drained by storm
sewer.
      K.   “Potable water” means water that has been treated to drinking water
standards and is safe for human consumption.
      L.   “Private drainage system” means all privately or publicly owned
ground, surfaces, structures or systems, excluding the MS4, that contribute to
or convey stormwater, including, but not limited to, roofs, gutters,
downspouts, lawns, driveways, pavement, roads, streets, curbs, gutters,
ditches, inlets, drains, catch basins, pipes, tunnels, culverts, channels,
detention basins, ponds, draws, swales, streams and any ground surface.
      M.   “Public improvement plans” means engineering drawings subject to
approval by the City Engineer for the construction of public improvements.
   18.   Words beginning with “Q.”
      A.   “Qualified person” means a person who possesses the required
certification, license, or appropriate competence, skills, and ability as
demonstrated by sufficient education, training, or experience to perform a
specific activity in a timely and complete manner consistent with the
regulatory requirements and generally accepted industry standards for such
activity.
   19.   Words beginning with “R.”
      A.   “Release” means to dump, spill, leak, pump, pour, emit, empty,
inject, leach, dispose, or otherwise introduce into the storm drainage system.
      B.   “Redeveloped property” means developed property that is altered or
expanded by grading or construction activity at a time period following initial
construction.
      C.   “Retention facility” means facility designed to hold storm water for
a sufficient length of time to provide for the stormwater to be consumed by
evaporation into the air or infiltration into the immediate soil.
      D.   “Rubbish” means solid waste, including ashes, that consist of (i)
combustible waste materials, including paper, rags, cartons, wood, excelsior,
furniture, rubber, plastics, yard trimmings, leaves, and similar materials; or
(ii) noncombustible waste materials, including glass, crockery, tin cans,
aluminum cans, metal furniture, and similar materials that do not bum at
ordinary incinerator temperatures (1,600-1,800 degrees Fahrenheit).
   20.   Words beginning with “S.”
      A.   “Sanitary sewage” means the domestic sewage or industrial waste that
is discharged into the City sanitary sewer system and passes through the
sanitary sewer system to the City sewage treatment plant for treatment.
      B.   “Sanitary sewer” means the system of pipes, conduits, and other
conveyances which carry industrial waste and domestic sewage from residential
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities and
institutions, whether treated or untreated, to the City sewage treatment plant
(and to which stormwater, surface water, and groundwater are not intentionally
admitted).
      C.   “Sediment” means soil (or mud) that has been disturbed or eroded and
transported naturally by water, wind, gravity, or equipment tracking (tires,
vehicles).
      D.   “Sedimentation” means the process that deposits soils, debris, and
other materials either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
stormwater drainage systems.
      E.   “Septic tank waste” means any domestic sewage from holding tanks
such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and aerated
tanks.
      F.   “Shall” signifies an act that is mandatory.
      G.   “Significant materials” means and includes, but is not limited to,
raw materials; fuels; materials such as solvents, detergents, and plastic
pellets; finished materials such as metallic products; raw materials used in
food processing or production; hazardous substances designated under Section
101(14) of Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
(CERCLA); any chemical the facility is required to report pursuant to Section
313 of Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA); fertilizers;
pesticides; and waste products such as ashes, slag and sludge that have the
potential to be released with stormwater discharges.
      H.   “Site” means the land or water area where any facility or activity
is physically located or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection
with the facility or activity.
      I.   “Slope disturbance line” means the line which delineates relatively
level building areas from areas where slopes exceed seven percent and where
special precautions must be taken.
      J.   “Small quantity generator waste” means any hazardous waste generated
by a small quantity generator, as defined by the US EPA.
      K.   “Solid waste” means any garbage, rubbish, refuse, and other
discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous
material, resulting from industrial, municipal, commercial, construction,
mining or agricultural operations, and residential, community and institutional
activities.
      L.   “Storm sewer” means a closed conduit for conveying collected
stormwater.
      M.   “Stormwater” means stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and surface
runoff and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural
precipitation and resulting from such precipitation.
      N.   “Stormwater discharge associated with industrial activity” means the
discharge from any conveyance that is used for collecting and conveying
stormwater and that is directly related to manufacturing, processing or raw
materials storage areas at an industrial plant. The term does not include
discharges from facilities or activities excluded from the NPDES program. For
the categories of industries identified in Subparagraphs (1) through (10) of
this definition, the term includes, but is not limited to, stormwater
discharges from industrial plant yards; immediate access roads and rail lines
used or traveled by carriers of raw materials, manufactured products, waste
material, or by-products used or created by the facility; material handling
sites; refuse sites; sites used for the application or disposal of process
wastewaters (as defined at 40 CFR Part 401), sites used for the storage and
maintenance of material handling equipment; sites used for residual treatment,
storage, or disposal; shipping and receiving areas; manufacturing buildings;
storage areas (including tank farms) for raw materials, and intermediate and
finished products; and areas where industrial activity has taken place in the
past and significant materials remain and are exposed to stormwater. For the
categories of industries identified in Subparagraph (11) of this definition,
the term includes only stormwater discharges from all areas (except access
roads and rail lines) listed in the previous sentence where material handling
equipment or activities, raw materials, intermediate products, final products,
waste materials, byproducts, or industrial machinery are exposed to stormwater.
For the purposes of this subparagraph, material handling activities include the
storage, loading and unloading, transportation, or conveyance of any raw
material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product or waste product.
The term excludes areas located on plant lands separate from the plant’s
industrial activities, such as office buildings and accompanying parking lots,
as long as the drainage from the excluded areas is not mixed with stormwater
drained from the above-described areas. Industrial facilities (including
industrial facilities that are federally, state, or municipally owned or
operated that meet the description of the facilities listed in Subparagraphs
(1) through (11) of this definition) include those facilities designated under
40 CFR § 122.28(a)(l)(v). The following categories of facilities are considered
to be engaging in “industrial activity” for purposes of this subparagraph:
         (1)   Facilities subject to stormwater effluent limitations
guidelines, new source performance standards, or toxic pollutant effluent
standards under 40 CFR Subchapter N (except facilities with toxic pollutant
effluent standards that are exempted under Category (xi) of this definition);
         (2)   Facilities classified as Standard Industrial Classifications 24
(except 2434), 26 (except 265 and 267), 28 (except 283 and 285), 29, 311, 32
(except 323), 33, 3441, or 373;
         (3)   Facilities classified as Standard Industrial Classifications 10
through 14 (mineral industry) including active or inactive mining operations
(except for areas of coal mining operations no longer meeting the definition of
a reclamation area under 40 CFR 434.11(1) because the performance bond issued
to the facility by the appropriate SMCRA authority has been released, or except
for areas of non­coal mining operations that have been released from applicable
State or federal reclamation requirements after December 17, 1990) and oil and
gas exploration, production, processing, or treatment operations, or
transmission facilities that discharge stormwater contaminated by contact with,
or that has come into contact with, any overburden, raw material, intermediate
products, finished products, by-products or waste products located on the site
of such operations; inactive mining operations are mining sites that are not
being actively mined, but that have an identifiable owner or operator;
         (4)   Hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facilities,
including those that are operating under interim status or a permit under
Subtitle C of RCRA;
         (5)   Landfills, land application sites, and open dumps that have
received any industrial wastes (waste that is received from any of the
facilities described under this subparagraph) including those that are subject
to regulation under Subtitle D of RCRA:
         (6)   Facilities involved in the recycling of materials, including
metal scrap yards, battery reclaimers, salvage yards, and automobile junkyards,
including, but limited to, those classified as Standard Industrial
Classification 5015 or 5093;
         (7)   Steam electric power generating facilities, including coal
handling sites:
         (8)   Transportation facilities classified as Standard Industrial
Classifications 40, 41, 42 (except 4221-4225), 43, 44, 45 or 5171 that have
vehicle maintenance shops, equipment cleaning operations, or airport deicing
operations. Only those portions of the facility that are either involved in
vehicle maintenance (including vehicle rehabilitation, mechanical repairs,
painting, fueling, and lubrication), equipment cleaning operations, airport
deicing operations, or that are otherwise identified under Subparagraphs (1)
through (7) or (9) through (11) of this subparagraph are associated with
industrial activity:
         (9)   Treatment works treating domestic sewage or any other sewage
sludge or wastewater treatment device or system, used in the storage treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal or domestic sewage, including land
dedicated to the disposal of sewage sludge that are located within the confines
of the facility, with a design flow of one mgd or more, or required to have an
approved pretreatment program under 40 CFR Part 403. Not included are
farmlands, domestic gardens or lands used for sludge management where sludge is
beneficially reused and that are not physically located in the confines of the
facility, or areas that are in compliance with 40 CFR Part 503;
(10)   Construction activity including clearing, grading and excavation
activities that result in the disturbance of one acre or more of total land
area or which result in the disturbance of less than one acre but are part of a
larger common plan of development or sale of one acre or more;
         (11)   Facilities under Standard Industrial Classifications 20, 21,
22, 23, 2434, 25, 265, 267, 27, 283 ,285, 30, 31 (except 311), 323, 34 (except
3441), 35, 36, 37 (except 373), 38, 39, or 422 l-4225 (and that are not
otherwise included within Categories (a) through (j) above).
      O.   “Stormwater drainage system” means any publicly or privately owned
or operated surface, system, facility, structure, improvement, development,
equipment, property or interest therein, or other structural or nonstructural
element made, constructed, used or acquired, for the purpose of collecting,
containing, storing, conveying and controlling stormwater, including, but not
limited to, storm sewers, curbs, street drains, conduits, lakes, rivers,
creeks, other natural or man-made channels, pipes, culverts and detention
ponds.
      P.   “Stormwater management fee” means fee levied within the boundaries
of the stormwater drainage system district for use in the development and daily
maintenance of the City’s Stormwater Management Program and the City’s storm
sewer system.
      Q.   “Stormwater Management Program” means an overall strategy and plan
for the management of stormwater drainage within the City as outlined
originally in the City’s notice of intent dated March 2003.
      R.   “Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)” means a document that
describes the best management practices to be implemented at a site, to prevent
or reduce the discharge of pollutants.
      S.   “Stormwater runoff” means that portion of rainfall that drains into
the storm sewer drainage system.
      T.   “Stream” means any river, creek, brook, branch, flowage, ravine, or
natural or manmade drainage way which has a definite bed and banks or
shoreline, in or into which surface or groundwater flows, either perennially or
intermittently.   
      U.   “Stripping” means any activity which removes the vegetative surface
cover, including trees, by spraying or clearing, and storage or removal of
topsoil.
      V.   “Subdivision development” means and includes activities associated
with the platting of any parcel of land into two or more lots and includes all
construction activities taking place thereon.
      W.   “Surface water” means water bodies and any water temporarily
residing on the surface of the ground, including oceans, lakes, reservoirs,
rivers, ponds, streams, puddles, channelized flow and runoff.
   21.   Words beginning with “T.”
      A.   “Ten-year event” means a runoff, rainfall, or flood event having a
ten percent probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Twenty-
four-hour storm duration is assumed unless otherwise noted.
      B.   “Time of concentration” means the elapsed time for stormwater to
flow from the most hydraulically remote point in a drainage basin to a
particular point of interest in that watershed.
      C.   “Tributary watershed” means all of the land surface area that
contributes runoff to a given point.
      D.   “Two-year event” means a runoff, rainfall, or flood event having two
percent probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Twenty-
four-hour storm duration is assumed unless otherwise noted.
   22.   Words beginning with “U.”
      A.   “Uncontaminated” means not containing harmful quantities of
pollutants.
      B.   “Used motor oil (or used oil)” means any oil that as a result of
use, storage, or handling, has become unsuitable for its original purpose
because of impurities or the loss of original properties.
      C.   “Used oil” See used motor oil.
      D.   “Utility agency” means private utility companies, City departments,
or contractors working for private utility companies or City departments,
engaged in the construction or maintenance of utility distribution lines and
services, including water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, electric, gas,
telephone, television, and communication services.
   23.   Words beginning with “V.”
      A.   “Vacant” means land on which there are no structures or only
structures which are secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
   24.   Words beginning with “W.”
      A.   “Wastewater” means any water or other liquid, other than
uncontaminated stormwater, discharged from a facility.
      B.   “Water quality standard” means the designation of a body or segment
of surface water in the state for desirable uses and the narrative and
numerical criteria deemed by State or federal regulatory standards to be
necessary to protect those uses.
      C.   “Waters of the State” means any river, stream, lake, pond, marsh,
watercourse, waterway, well, spring, reservoir, aquifer, irrigation system,
drainage system and any other body or accumulation of water, surface or under-
ground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within,
flow through or border upon the state or any portion thereof, but not including
any waters of the United States.
      D.   Waters of the United States. All waters which are currently used,
were used in the past, or may be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign
commerce, including all waters which are subject to the ebb and flow of the
tide; all interstate waters, including interstate wetlands; all other waters
the use, degradation, or destruction of which would affect or could affect
interstate or foreign commerce; all impoundments of waters otherwise defined as
waters of the United States under this definition; all tributaries of waters
identified in this definition; all wetlands adjacent to waters identified in
this definition; and any waters within the federal definition of “Waters of the
United States” at 40 CFR Section 122.2; but not including any waste treatment
systems treatment ponds, or lagoons designed to meet the requirements of the
Federal Clean Water Act.
      E.   “Watershed” means all land area drained by, or contributing water
to, the same channel, lake, marsh, stormwater facility, groundwater or area of
depression.
      F.   “Wet basin” means a detention basin designed to maintain a permanent
pool of water after the temporary storage of stormwater runoff.
      G.   “Wetlands” Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs,
and similar areas. For general, but not inclusive locations of designated
wetlands refer to mapping prepared jointly by the U.S. Department of Interior
and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
   25.   Words beginning with “X.”
   26.   Words beginning with “Y.”
      A.   “Yard waste” means leaves, grass clippings, tree limbs, brush, soil,
rocks or debris that result from landscaping, gardening, yard maintenance or
land clearing operations.
   27.   Words beginning with “Z.”
157.02   PURPOSE, INTENT, AND OBJECTIVES.
   1.   The purpose of this chapter and other ordinances adopted under this
chapter of this Code of Ordinances is to address mandates of the federal
government, including, but not limited to, the Clean Water Act and National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Phase II Permit regulations
regarding the desired reduction of pollution in stormwater runoff.
   2.   The intent of this chapter and other ordinances adopted under this
chapter of this Code of Ordinances is to establish policies to comprehensively
manage and reduce the potential for stormwater runoff pollution in a safe and
economical manner within the City, for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety and general welfare of the population, and for the protection of
property. This chapter is also intended to provide for the study of, design,
operation, construction, equipping, and maintenance of the stormwater drainage
system within the City limits.
   3.   Following are objectives of the storm­water management program:
      A.   To maintain and improve the quality of water impacted by the storm
drainage system of the City;
      B.   Maintain emergency vehicle movement during storm or flood events;
      C.   Protect, maintain, and enhance the environment of the City, and the
short-term and long-term public health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the City;
      D.   Reduce pollutant discharge to the City’s storm sewer system from
construction sites, as well as the discharge of pollutants from industrial,
commercial and residential areas of the City;
      E.   Preserve the value of existing buildings and other assets by
developing infrastructure that will assist in the reduction of storm event
related loses;
      F.   Assure that new developments and redevelopments do not increase
flood or drainage potential or create unstable conditions susceptible to
erosion;
      G.   Facilitate compliance of construction site permits with regard to
State and federal standards;
      H.   Preserve the City’s watercourses in good condition;
      I.   Address and minimize obstruction of the City’s watercourses;
      J.   Enhance urban water resource management techniques, including both
the reduction of pollution, and the enhancement of the urban environment,
required by the NPDES permit and such other regulations of the City, State and
federal government;
      K.   Maintain temporary and permanent public stormwater storage
facilities within the City in good operational condition;
      L.   Promote public awareness of the impact of improper discharge of
garbage, hazardous chemicals and sediment to the storm drainage system;
      M.   Encourage the recycling and proper disposal of hazardous consumer
products; and
      N.   Maintain and improve the quality of the community water into which
the stormwater outfalls flow, including, without limitation, the lakes, rivers,
streams, ponds, wetlands, sinkholes, and groundwater of the City, waters of the
state and waters of the United States.
157.03   DUTIES AND AUTHORITY OF THE CITY ENGINEER, GENERAL.
The City Engineer shall exercise all lawful powers necessary and appropriate to
administer the Stormwater Management Program. The duties and authority
described in this chapter are in addition to other applicable legal duties and
authority. The duties and authority of the City Engineer shall include, but are
not limited to:
   1.   Administration of the regulations contained in the NPDES Permit and in
this chapter of this Code of Ordinances;
   2.   Development and administration of all phases of a comprehensive
stormwater management program, including, establishing, studying, planning,
designing, developing, acquiring land for, constructing, administering,
operating, improving, maintaining, and reconstructing the City’s storm sewer
system as necessary;
   3.   Administration of the accounting, budgeting, recordkeeping and support
personnel necessary for the efficient operation of the Stormwater Management
Program;
   4.   Development of educational materials to increase public awareness that
would improve the public’s knowledge and reduce the introduction of pollution
to the stormwater drainage system by the general public;
   5.   Coordinate enforcement of the regulations contained in this chapter and
other ordinances adopted under this chapter of this Code of Ordinances with
other City departments;
   6.   Seek the cooperation of counties and municipalities in communities
adjacent to the City with the goal of reducing storm drainage system flooding;
   7.   Cooperate with other affected political jurisdictions in preparing and
implementing master drainage plans; changes in service for the benefit of the
City.
   8.   Provide an exchange of information between the public and City
employees on flooding areas and stormwater drainage problems within the
City;   
   9.   Perform studies and evaluation required to establish, maintain or
modify the Stormwater Management Program;
   10.   Require the preservation and enhancement of certain natural
environmental features;
   11.   Require submittal of appropriate federal, State and local permitting
to perform work within the City limits;
   12.   Review the installation of drainage improvements in new developments
and in redevelopments;
   13.   Administration of a program to periodically review erosion control
features placed within new construction sites;
   14.   Administration of a program to periodically review erosion control
features placed during initial construction to ensure that they remain in good
condition and are not removed without proper authorization;
   15.   Recommend to the Council the establishment, and periodic adjustment
of, stormwater management fees;
   16.   Review and recommend modification to the collection procedure for
stormwater management fees;
   17.   Hear and consider challenges to the application of this chapter, the
application of other ordinances adopted under this chapter of this Code of
Ordinances, and the calculation of stormwater management fees; and
   18.   Recommend to the Mayor and the Council policies for establishing
additional stormwater drainage services, preserving or expanding existing
services, and making changes in service for the benefit of the City.
157.04    COUNCIL DISCRETION TO PROVIDE FOR, AND APPROVE IMPROVEMENTS TO, THE
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   1.   Determination of stormwater services to be provided by the City, and
construction of stormwater facilities and improvements to the stormwater
drainage system, shall be made at the sole discretion of the Council.
   2.   The City Engineer shall recommend stormwater services to be provided by
the City, and construction of the stormwater facilities and improvements to the
stormwater drainage system, to the Council based upon engineering analysis,
taking into consideration frequency of flooding events, potential loss of life,
potential property damage, effect upon the general public and other factors
affecting the purpose of this chapter.
157.05   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY.
   1.   All areas within the City limits of the City are declared and
designated as a stormwater drainage system district within the meaning and
intent of, and for the purposes authorized by, Section 384.84 of the Code of
Iowa. Such district shall be governed by a stormwater management authority.
   2.   In furtherance of the purposes for which a stormwater drainage system
district is authorized, and to protect and promote the public health, safety,
welfare, and convenience of the City and its citizens, charges shall be levied
upon and collected from the owners of all real estate that discharges
stormwater, directly or indirectly, to the stormwater drainage system. The
proceeds of such charges shall be deposited in a stormwater management
enterprise fund and used for purposes authorized by this chapter.
   3.   The Council shall be the governing body of the stormwater management
authority, and the authority shall be under the direction, management and
control of the City Engineer. The City Engineer shall oversee the daily
operation of the stormwater management authority, shall enforce the provisions
of this chapter and all other ordinances adopted under this chapter of this
Code of Ordinances, and shall carry out the policy directives of the Council
acting in its role as governing body of the stormwater management authority.
157.06   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ENTERPRISE FUND.
   1.   A stormwater management enterprise fund shall be established and
maintained for the purpose of identifying, receiving and controlling all
revenues and expenses attributable to the City’s Stormwater Management Program,
and to meet applicable local, State and federal regulations, including, but not
limited to, the City’s NPDES Permit requirements. Stormwater charges, loans,
grants or funds received for the administration, operation, construction and
improvement of the City stormwater drainage system and facilities and the
City’s Stormwater Management Program shall be deposited in such fund.
   2.   The following expenditures shall be acceptable uses of stormwater
management enterprise funds:
      A.   NPDES Permit fees;
      B.   Development of public outreach and education materials;
      C.   Costs associated with public involvement and participation related
to the Stormwater Management Program;
      D.   Stormwater policy development assistance;
      E.   Illicit discharge detection and elimination procedures, equipment,
testing and investigation;
      F.   Water collection and sampling fees and related equipment;
      G.   Planning, design, engineering, construction, maintenance, operation,
and improvement of drainage services, facilities and structures, which shall
include, but are not limited to, conduits, drains, manholes, stormwater
detention devices, flow impediments, ponds, ditches, sloughs, streams, filter
strips, rip-raps, and erosion control devices;
      H.   Construction site and post-construction site inspection costs;
      I.   Staff time related to the Stormwater Management Program;
      J.   Employee training; and
      K.   Consulting fees related to the Stormwater Management Program and
construction of stormwater related projects.
   3.   Additional expenditures and disbursements from the stormwater
management enterprise fund shall be at the direction and discretion of the City
Engineer with approval of the Council.
157.07   ESTABLISHMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE.
The Council may, from time to time, set stormwater management fees to be
charged to property owners. Amounts collected shall be deposited in the
stormwater management enterprise fund for use as authorized by this chapter.
157.08   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE EXEMPTIONS. Stormwater management fees shall
not be imposed on the following types of property:
   1.   City, State and federal roads, bridges, highways, streets, rights-of-
way, sidewalks and pathways;
   2.   Parks, buildings, facilities and open spaces, including, but not
limited to, parking lots or facilities, owned or operated by the City.
157.09   COLLECTION OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEES.
     1.   The municipal waterworks office is authorized and directed to render
and collect fees in accordance with the fees established in this chapter. Fees
shall be collected with the owner’s regular water and sewer bill and shall be
shown as a separate item on the bill. Collection policies shall be the same as
for other City utility services. When a fee is six months delinquent, the
unpaid fee shall be assessed against the property and shall constitute a lien
against the property as provided in Section 384.84(3) of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   Deposit requirements, late charges and penalties as are now or may be
hereinafter established for water service bills shall also apply to stormwater
charges. In the event that any person, firm or corporation shall tender as
payment of water, sewer, collection of solid waste and stormwater management
fees an amount insufficient to pay in full all of the charges so billed,
payment shall be credited proportionately among all charges.
   3.   The provision for collection provided in this chapter shall be in
addition to any rights or remedies that the City may have under the laws of the
State of Iowa or this Code of Ordinances.
157.10   APPEAL OR ADJUSTMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE
.   1.   Any user who considers stormwater management fees to be inaccurate or
erroneous may request review thereof by the City Engineer.
   2.   The determination of the City Engineer shall be in writing and may be
appealed to the Council by written notice of appeal stating the reason and
basis for the appeal. The appeal shall be filed with the City Engineer, and the
Clerk within 30 days of the date of notice of the determination of the City
Engineer. Hearing on the appeal before the Council, or other designated
committee, shall take place within 30 days from the date of the notice of
appeal was filed with the Clerk. The decision of the Council shall be
considered final.
(Chapter 157 – Ord. 292 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
 
160.01 Definitions                         160.08 General Floodplain (Overlay)
                                           District (FP)
160.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of    160.09 Reserved
Fact, and Purpose
160.03 General Provisions                  160.10 Establishment of Appeal and
                                           Variance Procedures
160.04 Administration                      160.11 Nonconforming Uses
160.05 Establishment of Zoning (Overlay)   160.12 Penalties for Violation
Districts
160.06 Floodway (Overlay) District (FW)    160.13 Amendments
160.07 Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District   
(FF)
 
160.01   DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year and is also commonly referred to as the “100-year
flood.”
   3.   “Base flood elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
   5.   “Development” means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including (but not limited to) buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage
of equipment or materials. “Development” does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
   6.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
      A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions
of Section 160.07(2)(D)(1) of this chapter.
      B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage.
      C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation.
      D.   The enclosed area is not a basement as defined in this section.
   7.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   8.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   9.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   10.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter, factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also include
recreational vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   11.   “Factory-built home park or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
   12.   “500-year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which has a two-
tenths percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which,
on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 500 years.
   13.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   14.   “Flood Insurance Rate Map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   15.   “Flood Insurance Study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps. The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
   16.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   17.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including (but not limited to) emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing and floodplain management regulations.
   18.   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   19.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot.
   20.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the Special Flood Hazard
Area outside the floodway.
   21.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   22.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register.
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior.
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either: (i) by an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   23.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition
of enclosed area below lowest floor are met.
   24.   “Maximum damage potential development” means hospitals and like
institutions; buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or
instruments of great public value; buildings or building complexes containing
materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power
installations needed in emergency or other buildings or building complexes
similar in nature or use.
   25.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   26.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks, accessory
structures) means those structures or development for which the start of
construction commenced on or after the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   27.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   28.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis.
      B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection.
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck.
      D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   29.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
      A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles and replacing siding.
      B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work.
      C.   Basement sealing.
      D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes.
      E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems, and repairing wells or septic systems.
   30.   “Special flood hazard area” (SFHA) means the land within a community
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, and/or A99.
   31.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   32.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including (but not limited to) buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities,
and/or other similar uses.
   33.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be
included in the estimated cost of repair.
      Substantial damage also means flood-related damages sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds
25 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be included in the estimated cost
of repair.
   34.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      A.   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure taking
place during a 10-year period, the cumulative cost of which, equals or exceeds
fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure either (i) before the
“start of construction” of the first improvement of the structure, or (ii) if
the structure has been “substantially damaged” and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.)
      The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of a historic
structure, provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as a historic structure.  
      B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of
the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be
added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in
original floor space would exceed 25 percent.
   35.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.
   36.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
160.02   STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.
   1.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in Chapter 414, Code of Iowa,
as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning regulations to secure
safety from flood and to promote health and the general welfare.
   2.   Findings of Fact.
      A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
      B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by: (i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood damages
which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately elevated or
otherwise protected from flooding; and (ii) the cumulative effect of
obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
      C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
   3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges, and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Paragraph 2(A) of this section with provisions designed to:
      A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows
so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
      B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.03   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City shown on the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map as being within the boundaries of the Floodway, Floodway
Fringe, and General Floodplain (Overlay) Districts, as established in Section
160.05 of this chapter.
   2.   Establishment of Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRM) for Black Hawk County and Incorporated Areas, City of Elk Run
Heights, Panels 19013C0307F, 0309F, 0328F dated July 18, 2011; and Panel
19013C0326G dated May 8, 2024, which were prepared as part of the Flood
Insurance Study for Black Hawk County are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be the Official Floodplain Zoning Map. The flood profiles and all
explanatory material contained with the Flood Insurance Study are also declared
to be a part of this chapter.
   3.   Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries. The boundaries of the
zoning district areas shall be determined by scaling distances on the Official
Floodplain Zoning Map. When an interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of a boundary, the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   4.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   5.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with
this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   6.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
   7.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated Floodplain (Overlay) District areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the City or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
   8.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
160.04   ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Appointment, Duties, and Responsibilities of Local Official. The Mayor
is hereby appointed to implement and administer the provisions of this chapter
and will herein be referred to as the Floodplain Administrator. Duties and
responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include (but not
necessarily be limited to) the following:
      A.   Review all Floodplain Development Permit Applications to assure that
the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
      B.   Review Floodplain Development Applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Department of
Natural Resources for floodplain construction.
      C.   Record and maintain a record of: (i) the elevation (in relation to
North American Vertical Datum 1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new or substantially improved structures; or (ii) the elevation to which
new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
      D.   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of Natural
Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a watercourse and
submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
      E.   Keep a record of all permits, appeals, and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.
      F.   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
      G.   Notify the Federal Insurance Administration of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
      H.   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are consistent
with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Board of Adjustment of
potential conflict.
      I.   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps
when:
         (1)   Development placed within the Floodway (Overlay) District
results in any of the following:
            a.   An increase in the base flood elevations; or
            b.   Alteration to the floodway boundary.
         (2)   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base elevation; or
         (3)   Development relocates or alters the channel.
Within six months of the completion of the development, the applicant shall
submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter of Map
Revision.
      J.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the standards of
this chapter.
      K.   Forward all requests for variances to the Board of Adjustment for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Board of Adjustment.
   2.   Floodplain Development Permit.
      A.   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development
(any man-made change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not
limited to buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving,
storage of materials and equipment, excavation, or drilling operations),
including the placement of factory-built homes.
      B.   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator and shall include the following:
         (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
         (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(e.g., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
         (3)   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
         (4)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work
is intended.
         (5)   Elevation of the base flood.
         (6)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of
the lowest floor (including basement) of structure or of the level to which a
structure is to be floodproofed.
         (7)   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
         (8)   Such other information as the Floodplain Administrator deems
reasonably necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this
chapter.
      C.   Action on Permit Application. The Floodplain Administrator shall,
within a reasonable time, determine whether the proposed floodplain development
meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or disapprove
the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed, in writing,
of the specific reasons therefor. The Floodplain Administrator shall not issue
permits for variances except as directed by the Board of Adjustment.
      D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished fill,
structure floor elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to
the use or occupancy of any structure.
160.05   ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING (OVERLAY) DISTRICTS.
   The floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are hereby
divided into the following districts:
   1.   Floodway (Overlay) District (FW) – those areas identified as Floodway
on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
   2.   Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District (FF) – those areas identified as
Zone AE on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map but excluding those areas
identified as Floodway.
   3.   General Floodplain (Overlay) District (GF) – those areas identified as
Zone A on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map.
The boundaries shall be as shown on the Official Floodplain Zoning Map. Within
these districts, all uses not allowed as permitted uses are prohibited unless a
variance to the terms of this chapter is granted after due consideration by the
Board of Adjustment.
160.06   FLOODWAY (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FW).
   1.   Permitted Uses. All development within the Floodway District shall be
permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or
underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable performance
standards of the Floodway District.
   2.   Performance Standards. All Floodway District uses allowed as a
permitted use shall meet the following standards.
      A.   No development shall be permitted in the Floodway District that
would result in any increase in the base flood elevation. Consideration of the
effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the assumption
that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly situated
lands.
      B.   All development within the Floodway District shall:
         (1)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
         (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      C.   No development shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the
channel or floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch, or any
other drainage facility or system.
      D.   Structures, buildings, recreational vehicles and sanitary and
utility systems, if permitted, shall meet the applicable performance standards
of the Floodway Fringe District and shall be constructed or aligned to present
the minimum possible resistance to flood flows.
      E.   Structures, if permitted, shall have a low flood damage potential
and shall not be for human habitation.
      F.   Storage of materials or equipment that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive or injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited. Storage of
other material may be allowed if readily removable from the Floodway District
within the time available after flood warning.
      G.   Watercourse alterations or relocations (channel changes and
modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within
the altered or relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations
must be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
      H.   Any fill allowed in the floodway must be shown to have some
beneficial purpose and shall be limited to the minimum amount necessary.
      I.   Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried in the streambed
and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to channel
degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows.
160.07   FLOODWAY FRINGE (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FF).
   1.   Permitted Uses. All development within the Floodway Fringe District
shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable
performance standards of the Floodway Fringe District.
   2.   Performance Standards. All development must be consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance
standards. Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no development may
increase the base flood elevation more than one (1) foot. The applicant will be
responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient
technical information to make such determination.
      A.   All development shall:
         (1)   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement.
         (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      B.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation. Construction
shall be upon compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one
foot above the base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18
feet beyond the limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of
elevating (such as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed, subject to
favorable consideration by the Board of Adjustment, where existing topography,
street grades, or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such cases, the
methods used must be adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the
various forces and hazards associated with flooding. All new residential
structures located in areas that would become isolated due to flooding of
surrounding ground shall be provided with a means of access that will be
passable by wheeled vehicles during the base flood. However, this criterion
shall not apply where the Floodplain Administrator determines there is
sufficient flood warning time for the protection of life and property. When
estimating flood warning time, consideration shall be given to the criteria
listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa Administrative Code.
      C.   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be floodproofed to such a level. When
floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State of
Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the
base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator.
      D.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures:
         (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            a.   A minimum of two openings, with positioning on at least two
walls, having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
            b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one-foot
above grade.
            c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
         Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building
access and low damage potential storage. Where the distance between the floor
and ceiling of the fully enclosed area below the “lowest floor” is five feet or
more, the applicant shall be required to sign and record with the Black Hawk
County Recorder a Non-Conversion Agreement that ensures the lower enclosed area
remains compliant with the criteria outlined in this subsection.
         (2)   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
         (3)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating,
air conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or in the case on non-residential structures,
optionally floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood
elevation.
         (4)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed
with plumbing, gas lines, water/gas meters and other similar service utilities
either elevated (or in the case of non-residential structures, optionally
floodproofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood elevation or
designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a level.
      E.   Factory-Built Homes:
         (1)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes,
including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions,
shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
structure is a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
         (2)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes,
including those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions,
shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Anchorage
systems may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties
to ground anchors as required by the State Building Code.
      F.   Utility and Sanitary Systems:
         (1)   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located
or designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
         (2)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system
as well as the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment
facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood
protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood elevation.
         (3)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood
elevation.
         (4)   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
      G.   Storage of Equipment and Materials. Storage of equipment and
materials that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the base
flood elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated
or: (i) not subject to major flood damage and anchored to prevent movement due
to flood waters; or (ii) readily removable from the area within the time
available after flood warning.
      H.   Flood Control Structures. Flood control structural works such as
levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base
flood with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources
shall approve structural flood control works.
      I.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must
be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources must
approve such alterations or relocations.
      J.   Subdivision. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District.
      K.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
         (1)   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are
incidental to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation
requirements where the following criteria are satisfied:
            a.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed 600 sq. ft. in size. Those portions of the
structure located less than 1 foot above the base flood elevation must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials.
            b.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure
shall not be used for human habitation.
            c.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
            d.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement which may result in damage to other structures.
            e.   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and
heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above
the base flood elevation.
            f.   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Paragraph D(1) of this subsection.
         (2)   Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
      L.   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles are exempt from the
requirements of Paragraph E of this subsection regarding anchoring and
elevation of factory-built homes when the following criteria are satisfied.
         (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than 180 consecutive days; and
         (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
Paragraph E of this subsection regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-
built homes.
      M.   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be
buried in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to
prevent rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
      N.   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially
improved maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the elevation of
the 500-year flood, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be
floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional
engineer registered in the State of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing
methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities,
impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with the 0.2% annual
chance flood; and that the structure, below the 0.2% annual chance flood
elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water. A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator. Where 0.2% chance flood
elevation data has not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The
applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources
with sufficient technical information to make such determinations.
160.08   GENERAL FLOODPLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FP).
   1.   Permitted Uses. All development within the General Floodplain District
shall be permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they meet the applicable
performance standards of the General Floodplain District.
      A.   Any development which involves placement of structures, factory-
built homes, fill or other obstructions, storage of materials or equipment,
excavation or alteration of a watercourse shall be reviewed by the Department
of Natural Resources to determine: (i) whether the land involved is either
wholly or partly within the floodway or floodway fringe; and (ii) the base
flood elevation. The applicant shall be responsible for providing the
Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical information to make
the determination.
      B.   Review by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources is not required
for the proposed construction of new or replacement bridges or culverts where:
         (1)   The bridge or culvert is located on a stream that drains less
than two square miles; and
         (2)   The bridge or culvert is not associated with a channel
modification that constitutes a channel change as specified in 567-71.2(2),
Iowa Administrative Code.
   2.   Performance Standards.
      A.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the floodway
as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the applicable
provisions and standards of the Floodway (Overlay) District (Section
160.06).
      B.   All development, or portions thereof, to be located in the floodway
fringe as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the
applicable provisions and standards of the Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District
(Section
160.07).
160.09   RESERVED.
160.10   ESTABLISHMENT OF APPEAL AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide: (i) appeals; and (ii)
requests for variances to the provisions of this chapter, and shall take any
other action which is required of the Board.
   1.   Appeals. Where it is alleged there is any error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of this chapter, the aggrieved party may appeal such action.
The notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board and with the official from
whom the appeal is taken and shall set forth the specific reason for the
appeal. The official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to the Board
all the documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed from
was taken.
   2.   Variance. The Board may authorize upon request in specific cases such
variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      A.   Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
      B.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood would result. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
      C.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      D.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Floodplain
Administrator that: (i) the issuance of a variance will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00
of insurance coverage; and (ii) such construction increases risks to life and
property.
      E.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   3.   Hearings and Decisions of the Board.
      A.   Hearings. Upon the filing with the Board of an appeal or a request
for a variance, the Board shall hold a public hearing. The Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing and give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to parties in interest. At the hearing, any party may appear in person
or by agent or attorney and present written or oral evidence. The Board may
require the appellant or applicant to provide such information as is reasonably
deemed necessary and may request the technical assistance and/or evaluation of
a professional engineer or other expert person or agency, including the
Department of Natural Resources.
      B.   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on an appeal or
variance within a reasonable time. In passing upon an appeal, the Board may, so
long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and it shall make its decision, in
writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons for its decision.
In granting a variance, the Board shall consider such factors as contained in
this section and all other relevant sections of this chapter and may prescribe
such conditions as contained in Subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.
         (1)   Factors Upon Which the Decision of the Board Shall Be Based. In
passing upon applications for variances, the Board shall consider all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
            a.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments.
            b.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
            c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the
ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary
conditions.
            d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
            e.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the City.
            f.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
            g.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use.
            h.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
            i.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area.
            j.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
            k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site.
            l.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer,
gas, electrical, and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
            m.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
         (2)   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the
factors listed above, the Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
            a.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
            b.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
            c.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
            d.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
            e.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the
flood protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated
with the regulatory flood. The Board shall require that the applicant submit a
plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
   4.   Appeals to the Court. Any person or persons, jointly or severally,
aggrieved by any decision of the Board may present to a court of record a
petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole
or in part, specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within thirty days after the filing of the decision in
the office of the Board.
160.11   NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
      A.   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   2.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation. Except as provided in Subsection 1(B) of this section, any use
which has been permitted as a variance shall be considered a conforming use.
160.12   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of the requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances) shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than
$500.00 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
prevent the City from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy violation.
160.13   AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to
time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
(Chapter 160 – Ord. 288 – Apr. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 161
RIGHT-OF-WAY WORK
161.01  Purpose                       161.11  Temporary Barriers and Warning
                                      Devices
161.02  Definitions                   161.12  Restoration of Excavated Site
161.03 Work Permit Require            161.13 Emergency Excavation Work
161.04  Work Permits Not Transferable 161.14 Preservation of Monuments
161.05 Exceptions                     161.15 Signage
161.06 Term of Work Permit            161.16  Relocation and Protection of
                                      Facility2
161.07  Fees                       161.17 Abandonment of Structures
161.08 Bond, Certificate of Insurance
and Special Deposit or Annual Bond    161.18 Approval; Revocation
Requirements
161.09  Maintenance of Drawings       161.19 Appeal
161.10 Manner of Excavation           161.20 Responsibility
 
161.01   PURPOSE.
The purposes of this chapter are:
   1.   To promote public health, safety, and general welfare.
   2.   To ensure oversight and accountability for work done in the public
right-of-way.
   3.   To ensure management of facilities located in the public right-of-way.
   4.   To manage a limited resource to the long-term benefit of the public.
   5.   To recover a portion of the costs of managing the public right-of-way.
   6.   To minimize inconvenience to the public occasioned by the emplacement
and maintenance of facilities in the public right-of-way.
   7.   To prevent premature exhaustion of capacity in the public right-of-way
to accommodate communications and other services.
   8.   To ensure restoration of damaged public property.
161.02   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   “Excavation” means any opening and/or tunneling in or under the surface
of any public place or public right-of-way in the City. The exception is an
opening into a lawful structure below the surface of a public place or public
right-of-way (e.g., a manhole), the top of which is flush with the adjoining
surface and so constructed as to allow frequent openings with injury or damage
to the public place or public right-of-way.
   2.   “Facility” means a pipe, sewer, pipeline, tube, main, service, trap,
vent, vault, manhole, meter, gauge, regulator, valve, conduit, wire, tower,
pole, pole line, anchor, cable, fiber optic, public irrigation system, junction
box, transformer or any other material, structure, sign, traffic control
device, or object of any kind or character, whether enumerated herein or not,
which is or may be lawfully constructed, left, placed or maintained in, upon,
along, across, under or over any public place or public right-of-way.
   3.   “Franchise” means an authorization granted by the City to a person to
construct, maintain, or emplace facilities generally upon, across, beneath and
over a public place or the public right-of-way in the City.
   4.   “Franchise agreement” means a contract entered into between the City
and a franchisee that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the
franchise may be exercised.
   5.   “Person” means any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind, including private or public utility.
   6.   “Public place” means property owned or controlled by the City and
dedicated to public use, including but not limited to any park, square or
plaza.
   7.   “Public right-of-way” means the surface and space above, on and below,
including but not limited to any public highway, avenue, street, lane, alley,
sidewalk, boulevard, concourse, driveway, bridge, tunnel, park, parkway,
waterway, dock, bulkhead, wharf, pier, public easement, or right-of-way within
the City on public or private property, in which the City now or hereafter
holds any property interest which, consistent with the purposes for which it
was dedicated or otherwise acquired, may be used for the purpose of
constructing, operating, and maintaining a facility.
   8.   “Public Works Supervisor” means the City of Elk Run Heights, Supervisor
of Public Works or his or her designee.
   9.   “Routine maintenance” means the action of keeping in a certain state of
repair, that is a regular, customary procedure and does not include excavation,
restoration or impeded the traveling public.
   10.   “Street lane closure notice” means a notice of approval required for
any street lane closure.
   11.   “Substructure” means any pipe, conduit, duct, tunnel, manhole, vault,
buried cable or wire, or any similar structure located below the surface of any
public place or public right-of-way.
   12.   “Traffic control device” means any traffic signal equipment, signs,
interconnect lines or cables, paint or pavement markings, traffic safety
barricades or cones, or any other in-place traffic safety device.
   13.   “Utility” means private company and/or corporation, or City department
engaged in providing a particular service to the general public.
   14.   “Work” means any excavation upon, under or through a public place or
the public right-of-way at specified times and places to erect, construct,
excavate, emplace, or otherwise work on facilities.
   15.   “Work permit” means authorization to perform work, issued by the
Public Works Director.
161.03   WORK PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   No person shall enter upon a public place or the public right-of-way at
any time to erect, construct, emplace or otherwise work on facilities without
first obtaining a work permit to do so from the Public Works Supervisor, except
as otherwise provided in this chapter. No work permit to work or make an
excavation in a public place or public right-of-way shall be issued except as
provided in this chapter.
   2.   No person shall tunnel under the surface of any public place or public
right-of-way for the purpose of making any gas, sewer, water, steam heating
pipe, or underground electric connection without first obtaining a work permit
required herein.
   3.   No work permit shall be issued unless a written application (on a form
provided by the Public Works Supervisor) is submitted to the Public Works
Supervisor. The written application shall include:
      A.   Name and address of applicant;
      B.   Signature of applicant;
      C.   Principal place of business of the applicant, with contact
information, including 24-hour notification capability;
      D.   Authority of the applicant to occupy the public place or public
right-of-way for which the work permit is sought;
      E.   Appropriate indemnifying bond or insurance certificate if
applicable;
      F.   Location and dimensions of the installing or removal and the
approximate area and scope of the work to be done;
      G.   Location of all known survey monuments in the area of the work;
      H.   Location and dimensions of any relevant easement associated with the
work;
      I.   Location and dimensions of any and all existing and proposed traffic
control and traffic safety devices (including signs) that will be affected by
the work;
      J.   The purpose of the facility and the proposed start date and ending
dates that will be required to complete such work, including backfilling said
excavation and removing all obstructions, material and debris, and restoration.
      K.   Any other sketches, maps, studies, engineering reports, tests,
profiles, cross-sections, construction plans and specifications the Public
Works Supervisor may require to fully analyze the application.
   The application, when approved and signed by the Public Works Supervisor,
shall constitute a work permit.
   4.   Any proposed lane closures will require the completion of a separate
lane closure notice, including a sketch showing the location of the lane to be
closed and applicable dimensions. The form is provided by the Public Work
Supervisor and must also be submitted to and approved by the Public Works
Supervisor.
161.04   WORK PERMITS NOT TRANSFERABLE.
A work permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall not be
transferable to another person.
161.05   EXCEPTIONS.
The following are exempt from the application of this chapter.
   1.   A project that has been approved and funded by the City.
   2.   Routine maintenance, as determine by the Public Works Supervisor.
However, if damage is caused during routine maintenance, restoration shall be
in compliance with Section 161.12 of this chapter.
   3.   Any improvement made in the right-of-way prior to adoption of this
ordinance.
Examples of improvements would include retaining walls, trees and any other
activity now governed by this chapter.
161.06   TERM OF WORK PERMIT.
   1.   The term of completion of the work, as included on the work permit,
shall be defined by the Public Works Supervisor at the time the work permit is
issued.
   2.   If the work permit holder fails to meet the conditions included on the
work permit as determined by the Public Works Supervisor, the City reserves the
right to nullify the work permit, restore the area using the security deposit
and proceed to issue violations.
   3.   A work permit may be renewed, for a period to be determine by the
Public Works Supervisor upon demonstration by the work permit holder that
circumstances or conditions require an extension of time in order to accomplish
the work covered by the work permit.
   4.   An extension may be granted by the Public Works Supervisor if requested
prior to the expiration date of the original work permit.
161.07   FEES.
The purpose of a work permit fee is to reimburse the City for a portion of the
expense in issuing the work permit, and any on-site inspection required. A work
permit fee may be charged by the City for the issuance of a work permit. The
fee for each work permitshall be established in accordance with a resolution
adopted by the City Council.
161.08   BOND, CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE AND SPECIAL DEPOSIT OR ANNUAL BOND
REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Indemnifying Bond or Certificate of Insurance. Before a work permit is
issued as herein provided, the applicant shall deposit with the City an
indemnifying bond payable to the City, or file a certificate of insurance in
favor of the City in such amounts of not less than $100,000.00 for any person
killed or injured, $300,000.00 for total liability for all persons killed or
injured in one accident and $50,000.00 for any property damage incurred as a
result of an accident.
      A.   The indemnifying bond or certificate of insurance shall indemnify
and save harmless the City, its officers, employees, agents and representative
against any and all damages, claims losses, demands, judgements, actions, or
causes of actions, including payments made under the workmen’s compensation
laws and any costs including attorney fees arising out of or in connection with
the work permit or for which the City, City Council, or any City officer,
employee, agent or representative may be held liable by reason of any accident
or injury to any person, including the work permit holder, its agents or
employees, or any property through the fault of work permit holder, its agents
or employees, either in not properly guarding the excavation or the maintenance
of the excavation or for any other injury resulting from the negligence,
wrongful acts, faults or misconduct on the part of the work permit holder, its
agents or employees.
      B.   The City, the City Council, and its agents, employees, or
representatives shall not be liable nor share any cost incidental to the
removal, reconstruction or relocation of any structure or facility of a work
permit holder or any person or of any utility placed in any public place,
public right-of-way or public easement, in the exercise of any power the City,
the City Council or any officer of the City now has or which may hereafter be
authorized or permitted by the laws of the State.
      C.   In addition, if the City, through its City Council, elects to alter
or change the grade of any street, alley, or public way, work permit holder
shall, upon reasonable notice by the City, remove, or relocate any substructure
or facility at work permit holder’s expense.
      D.   An annual indemnifying bond or certificate of insurance for a
specified period given under this provision shall remain in full force and
effect during the period specified in the application to cover all excavation
work in public places or public right-of-way.
   2.   Security Deposit or Annual Bond. The application for a work permit to
perform work under this chapter shall be accompanied by a $10,000.00 security
deposit or annual bond made to the City and submitted to the Director of
Finance. The City may use any or all of this amount to pay the cost of any work
the City performs to restore or maintain the public place or public right-of-
way as herein provided in the event the work permit holder fails to perform
such work, in which event the work permit holder will not be issued any more
work permits until the security deposit or annual bond is again reinstated. Use
of the security deposit or annual bond by the City shall not affect the City’s
right to issue a municipal infraction or charge a work permit holder with a
simple misdemeanor.
   3.   Refund of Security Deposit. Upon the Public Works Supervisor’s receipt
of written application by the work permit holder, all security deposits shall
be refunded by the City to the work permit holder upon completion of the work.
This does not remove the responsibility of the work permit holder to complete
the work as required in this chapter, actual completion shall be determined by
the Public Works Supervisor.
161.09   MAINTENANCE OF DRAWINGS.
   1.   Maps shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to two hundred
feet (1=200). The scale shall show in detail the plan location, size and kind
of installation, if known, of any substructure; except service lines designed
to serve single properties beneath the surface of the public place or public
right-of-way belonging to, used by or under the control of such person having
any interest.
   2.   In addition, updated maps of the same specifications shall be filed
with the Public Work Supervisor no later than April 1 of every year, for the
previous year’s work, relative to the work permits that have been issued.
   3.   Failure to file maps with the Public Works Supervisor shall be
considered grounds for denial of future work permits to the applicant.
161.10   MANNER OF EXCAVATION.
Excavation shall be in compliance with the adopted standards of the City.
161.11   TEMPORARY BARRIERS AND WARNINGS DEVICES.
Temporary barriers and warning devices shall be in compliance with The Manual
for Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) standards.
161.12   RESTORATION OF EXCAVATED SITE.
   1.   Restoration shall be in compliance with the adopted standards of the
City.
   2.   If an owner or operator or any agent of a facility disturbs a pavement,
sidewalk, driveway or other surfacing, or landscaping in public right-of-way,
the owner or operator or agent, in a manner approved by the Public Works
Supervisor, shall replace and restore all pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other
surfacing, or landscaping disturbed, in a substantially the same condition and
in a good, workmanlike, timely manner, in accordance with any standards for
such work set by the City. Such restoration shall be completed prior to
expiration of the work permit.
   3.   The work permit holder is responsible for correcting defective
materials and/or workmanship for at least one year from the date of completion
included on the work permit.
   4.   If any work remains unfinished or is not in compliance at the
expiration of the work permit and as determined by the Public Works Supervisor,
then the City will proceed to restore the area using the security deposit an
proceed to issue violations.
   5.   Upon completion of all work provided for in the work permit or as
directed by the Public Works Supervisor, the work permit holder shall remove
all temporary barriers and warning devices.
161.13   EMERGENCY EXCAVATION WORK.
   1.   Urgent Work. When traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the
traveling public or the public interest, require that the excavation work be
performed as emergency work, the Public Works Supervisor shall have the
authority to order that an adequate crew and facilities be employed by the work
permit holder for twenty-four (24) hours a day until the work is completed.
   2.   Emergency Action. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent
the making of such excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life
or property or for the urgent location of trouble in a facility, or for making
emergency repairs, provided that the person making such excavation shall apply
to the Public Works Supervisor for such a work permit on the first working day
after such work is commenced.
161.14   PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS.
Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision, or a precise survey reference point, or a
permanent survey benchmark within the City shall not be removed or disturbed or
caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining permission in writing
from the Public Works Supervisor to do so. Permission to remove or disturb such
monuments, reference point or benchmarks shall only be granted upon condition
that the person applying for such permission shall pay all expenses incident to
the proper placement of this monument by the City.
161.15   SIGNAGE.
No signs shall be removed, except by the City. If signs are removed or damaged,
the work permit holder shall reimburse the City for the actual cost of
replacement by the City.
161.16   RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF FACILITY.
   1.   The work permit holder shall not interfere with any existing facility
without the written consent of the Public Works Supervisor and the owner of the
facility or said owner’s agent. If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing
facility, this shall be done by said owner or agent. No facility, either owned
by the City or a person or utility, shall be moved to accommodate the work
permit holder unless the cost of such work is borne by the work permit holder
or unless other arrangement are made to the satisfaction of the Public Works
Supervisor.
   2.   The work permit holder shall support and protect all pipes, conduits,
poles, wires or other apparatus which may be in any way affected by the
excavation work, and do everything necessary to support, sustain and protect
them under, over, along or across said work. The work permit holder shall
secure approval of the method of support and protection from the owner of the
facility. In case any of said pipes, conduits, poles, wires, or apparatus or
any substructures or facility should be damaged, including any pipe coating or
other encasement or devices, the work permit holder shall promptly notify the
owner thereof.
   3.   All facilities damaged by the work permit holder shall be repaired by
the agency or person owning them and the expense of such repairs shall be paid
by the work permit holder. It is the intent of this chapter that the work
permit holder shall assume all liability for damage to facilities or
substructures and any resulting damage or injury to anyone because of such
facility or substructure damage and such assumption of liability is a
contractual obligation of the work permit holder.
   4.   The only exception shall be such instances where damage is exclusively
due to the negligence of the owning utility. The City shall not be made a party
to any action because of this chapter.
   5.   The work permit holder is responsible for researching the existence and
location of all underground facilities and substructures and for protecting the
same against damage.
161.17   ABANDONMENT OF SUBSTRUCTURES.
Whenever the use of a substructure or facility is abandoned, except the
abandonment of service line designed to serve single properties, the person
owning, using, controlling, or having an interest therein shall file with the
City, within thirty (30) days after such abandonment, a statement in writing
giving in detail the location of the substructure or facility so abandoned. If
such abandoned substructure or facility is in the way, or subsequently becomes
in the way, of an installation of the City of any other public body or utility
authorized or approved by the City, the Public Works Supervisor may require
removal of the same; the cost of its removal shall be paid by the owner or
owner’s agent. The conditions of removal and restoration shall be determined by
the Public Works Supervisor on a case-by-case basis.
161.18   APPROVAL; REVOCATION.
The Public Works Supervisor may suspend or revoke a work permit or approval
under this chapter and order that all work stop for any one or all of the
following reasons:
   1.   For conducting or accomplishing permitted work in such a manner as to
materially and adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of persons
residing in, owning property in, or working in the neighborhood of the property
where such work has occurred.
   2.   For conducting or accomplishing permitted work in a manner that is
materially detrimental to the public welfare, or other property, or
improvements within the neighborhood or the City.
   3.   For violation of failure to comply with any provision of this chapter.
161.19   APPEAL.
1.   Any person aggrieved by an order, requirement, decision of determination
of the Public Works Supervisor in the enforcement of this chapter may, within
thirty (30) calendar dals thereof, appeal such action to the City Council by
filing with the City Clerk an appeal specifying the ground thereof. The City
Clerk shall forthwith transmit to the City Council all papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from is taken.
2.   Before an appeal is filed within the City Council, the appellant shall pay
to the City a fee in accordance with a duly approved resolution of the Council.
3.   Upon receipt of such an appeal, and payment of the fee, the City Council
or its designated representative shall establish a date, time and place for a
public hearing on the appeal and shall cause the preparation, publication,
posting and distribution of a public notice of said hearing.
4.   The public hearing shall be attended by the appellant or agent, and by the
Public Works Supervisor or other designated official of the City.
5.   The City Council may modify, reserve or affirm, wholly or partly, the
order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from. It shall not have
the power to grant exceptions or variances to the requirements of this chapter.
6.   A majority vote of the members of the City Council present at the hearing
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from.
161.20   RESPONSIBILITY.
The failure of City, officials to observe or foresee hazardous or unsightly
conditions, or to impose other additional conditions or requirements on
approved applicants or work permit holder, or to deny or revoke a work permit
or approval, or to stop work in violation of this chapter, shall not relieve
the work permit holders of any consequences of their actions or inactions or
result in the City, its officers or agents, being liable therefore, or on
account thereof.
(Chapter 161 – Ord. 293 – Oct. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
165.01 Title                          165.12 R-3 (Multiple Residential)
                                      District
165.02 Short Title                    165.13 C-1 (Central Commercial) District
165.03 Purpose – Statutory Authority165.14 C-2 (Outlying Commercial)
                                      District
165.04 Interpretation and Application 165.15 I (Industrial) District
of Language
165.05 Definitions                    165.16 Mobile Homes and Mobile Home
                                      Parks
165.06 Establishment of Districts and 165.17 Solar Collector Systems
District Boundaries
165.07 General Regulations and        165.18 Administrative Provisions
Provisions
165.08 Supplemental Regulations and   165.19 Board of Adjustment
Modifications
165.09 A (Agricultural) District      165.20 Violation – Penalty
165.10 R-1 (Residential) District     165.21 Amendments
165.11 R-2 (Residential) District      
 
165.01   TITLE.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter, including the zoning district map
adopted as a part of the ordinance codified in this chapter, shall be known as,
and may be cited and referred to as “The Elk Run Heights, Iowa, Zoning
Ordinance, 1983.”
165.02   SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter, including the map adopted as a part
of the ordinance codified in this chapter, may be cited and referred to as “The
Elk Run Heights Zoning Ordinance,” to the same effect as if the full title were
stated.
165.03   PURPOSE – STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter is adopted for the purpose of
promoting the public health, safety, comfort, order, and general welfare, to
conserve and protect the natural and manmade environment, to secure and provide
the social and economic advantages resulting from an orderly, planned use of
land resources, and to facilitate adequate but economical provisions for public
improvement for the citizens of the City, as permitted by the provisions of
Chapter 414 of the Code of Iowa, as amended.
165.04   INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF LANGUAGE.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements. Where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions of law or by other
rules, regulations, or ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall
control.
165.05   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined as set
out in this chapter. Words used in the present tense include the future; the
singular number includes the plural; and the plural, the singular. The word
“shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is permissive; the word “person” includes
a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company, or corporation
as well as an individual; the words “used” or “occupied” include the words
intended, designed, or arranged to be used or occupied.
   1.   “Accessory use or structure” means a use or structure on the same lot
with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal
use or structure.
   2.   “Administrative officer” means the individual designated by this
chapter to administer the Zoning Ordinance and who is responsible for the
enforcement of the regulations imposed by the Zoning Ordinance. This person may
also be referred to as the “City Clerk.”
   3.   “Agriculture” means the use of land for agricultural purposes including
farming, dairying, pasturage, apiculture, floriculture, viticulture, fish farm,
and animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses for packing,
treating, or storing the product; provided, however, that the operation of such
accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities;
provided further, that the above uses shall not include the commercial feeding
of garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
   4.   “Alley” or “lane” means a public or private way, other than a second
street, not more than 20 feet wide affording generally secondary means of
access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   5.   “Basement” means a story partly underground but having at least one-
half of the height of two or more walls above the level of the adjoining
ground. A basement shall be constructed as a story for the purpose of height
regulations.
   6.   “Billboard” means and includes all structures, regardless of the
material used in the construction of the same, that are erected, maintained, or
used for public display of posters, painted signs, walls signs (whether the
structure be placed on the wall or painted on the wall itself), pictures, or
other pictorial reading matter which advertise a business or attraction which
is not carried on or manufactured in or upon the premises upon which such signs
or billboards are located.
   7.   “Block” means the property abutting on one side of the street and lying
within the two nearest intersecting streets, an unsubdivided acreage, or
railway rights-of-way.
   8.   “Boarding house” or “rooming house” means a building, other than a
hotel, where, for compensation, lodging (or meals and lodging) is provided for
three or more persons.
   9.   “Building” means any structure designed or intended for the support,
enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, or property, but not
including signs or billboards.
   10.   “Building, height of” means the vertical distance from the average
natural grade to the highest point of the roof.
   11.   “Bulk station” means distributing stations commonly known as bulk or
tank stations used for the storage and distribution of flammable liquids or
liquefied petroleum products, where the aggregate capacity of all storage tanks
is more than 12,000 gallons.
   12.   “Business” or “commercial” means the engaging in the purchase, sale,
or exchange of goods or services, or the operation for profit of offices,
recreational, or amusement enterprises.
   13.   “Carport” means a roofed structure providing space for the parking of
motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than two sides. For the purposes of
this chapter, a carport attached to a principal building shall be considered
part of the principal building and subject to all yard requirements in this
chapter.
   14.   “Cellar” means that portion of a building having more than one-half of
its height below grade. A cellar is not included in computing the number of
stories for the purpose of height measurement.
   15.   “Clinic” means a building or buildings used by physicians, dentists,
osteopaths, chiropractors, and allied professions for outpatient care of
persons requiring such professional services.
   16.   “Court” means an open, unobstructed, and unoccupied space, other than
a yard, which is bounded on two or more sides by a building on the same lot.
   17.   “Day nursery,” “nursery school,” or “day care” means any public or
private agency, institution, establishment, or place which provides
supplemental parental care and/or educational work (other than lodging
overnight) for six or more children of preschool age, for compensation.
   18.   “Development” means any manmade change to improve or unimprove real
estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   19.   “District” means a section or sections of the City within which
certain uniform regulations and requirements governing the use of buildings and
premises, or the height and area of buildings and premises, are uniform.
   20.   “Dump” means a premises used for the disposal of clean type of fill
material, such as dirt, rocks, and similar materials, but not including organic
matter of any type, such as garbage or dead animals or portions thereof.
   21.   “Dwelling” means any building or portion thereof which is designed or
used exclusively for residential purposes, but not including a tent, cabin,
trailer, or mobile home.
      A.   “Condominium dwelling” means a multiple dwelling as defined in this
chapter whereby the fee title to each dwelling unit is held independently of
the others.
      B.   “Multiple dwellings” means a residence designed for or occupied by
three or more families, with separate housekeeping, bathroom, and cooking
facilities.
      C.   “Row dwelling” means any one of three or more attached dwellings in
a continuous row, each such dwelling designed and erected as a unit on a
separate lot and separate from one another by an approved wall or walls.
      D.   “Single-family dwelling” means a detached residence designed for, or
used exclusively and occupied by, one family only.
      E.   “Two-family dwelling” means a residence designed for, or used
exclusively and occupied by, two families only, with separate housekeeping,
bathroom, and cooking facilities for each.
      F.   “Unit dwelling” means a room or group of rooms which are arranged,
designed, or used as living quarters for the occupancy of one family,
containing bathroom and kitchen facilities.
   22.   “Factory-built structure” means any structure which is, wholly or in
substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing
facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site.
   23.   “Factory-built housing” means a factory built structure designed for
long-term residential use. For the purposes of these regulations, factory-built
housing consists of three types: modular homes, mobile homes, and manufactured
homes.
   24.   “Family” means one or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit;
provided that unless all members are related by blood, marriage, or adoption,
no such family shall contain over four persons.
   25.   “Farm” means an area comprising 35 or more contiguous acres which is
used for agricultural purposes and the growing and production of all farm
products thereon, and their storage on the premises, or, for the raising
thereon of poultry or livestock. A division of such property by a road does not
render the property as noncontiguous.
   26.   “Farmstead” means the buildings and adjacent service areas of a farm.
   27.   “Feedlot” means any parcel of land or premises which is used for the
concentrated feeding of cattle, hogs, sheep, fowl, or other livestock within a
confined area.
   28.   “Frontage” means all the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the
street, or if the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on
one side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
   29.   “Garage (private)” means an enclosed structure intended for the
parking of private motor vehicles of the families residing upon the premises.
   30.   “Garage (public)” means any building premises, except those used as
private garages, used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring, selling, or
storing motor-driven vehicles.
   31.   “Garage (storage)” means any building or premises used for housing
only of motor-driven vehicles pursuant to previous arrangements and not to
transients, and at which automobile fuels and oils are not sold, and motor-
driven vehicles are not equipped, repaired, hired, or sold.
   32.   “Gasoline filling station” means any building or premises used for the
retail sales of products and accessories customarily associated with the
maintenance and propulsion of motor vehicles, and including services and
repairs.
   33.   “Grade” means the average level of the finished surface of the ground
adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
   34.   “Group home” means a facility for individuals over the age of 18 who
require continuing assistance and supervision on a daily basis on a long-term
basis. These homes are intended primarily for moderately and severely retarded
adults whose current stage of development precludes independent living.
   35.   “Halfway house” means any institution, place, building, or agency, for
adolescents or adults who have been institutionalized for various reasons and
released, or who have had physical or social disabilities which make transition
into society difficult and require the protection of a group setting to
facilitate the transition into a functional member of society.
   36.   “Home occupation” means a secondary use carried on entirely within the
residence where there is no evidence of such occupation being conducted on the
premises by virtue of excessive noise, odors, electrical disturbances, or
traffic generation.
   37.   “Hotel” means a building in which lodging is provided and offered to
the public for compensation and which is open to transient guests, as
contradistinctive from a boarding house or rooming house.
   38.   “Institution” means a building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or
a nonprofit establishment for public use.
   39.   “Junk or salvage yard” means any area where waste, discarded, or
salvaged material or equipment are bought, sold, exchanged, baled or packed,
disassembled, kept, stored, or handled, including house wrecking yards, auto
wrecking activities, used lumber yards, and places or yards for storage of
salvaged building materials and structural steel materials and equipment; but
not including areas where such uses are conducted entirely within a completely
enclosed building and not including pawn shops and establishments for the sale,
purchase, or storage of used furniture and household equipment, used cars in
operable condition, or salvaged materials incidental and necessary to
manufacturing operations, and not including contractors’ storage yards.
   40.   “Kennel (commercial)” means any premises on which three or more dogs,
six months old or older are kept, including grooming, boarding, and other
associated activities.
   41.   “Kennel (private or hobby)” means any lot on which three or more dogs
are kept; however, this shall not include grooming, boarding, or other
activities dealing with dogs other than the owner’s.
   42.   “Lot” means a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet
minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area to provide such yards
and other open space as are required in this chapter. Such lot shall have
frontage on a public street or private street and may consist of: (i) a single
lot of record; (ii) a portion of a lot of record; (iii) a combination of
complete lots of record, of complete lots of record and portions of lots of
record, or of portions of lots of record; or, (iv) a parcel of land described
by metes and bounds; provided, that in no case of division or combination,
shall any residual lot or parcel be created which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
      A.   “Corner lot” means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection. (See Examples of Lot Definitions below.)
      B.   “Double-frontage lot” means a lot having a frontage of two
nonintersecting streets, as distinguished from a corner lot (See Examples of
Lot Definitions below.)
      C.   “Interior lot” means a lot other than a corner lot. (See Examples of
Lot Definitions below.)
      D.   “Reversed frontage lot” means a corner lot, the side street line of
which is substantially a continuation of the front line of the first platted
lots to its rear. (See Examples of Lot Definitions below.)
      E.   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
12ee6379c33e9d86c17b9ae125c0947557058f7f/IMAGES/0-0-0-1658.png]
 
   43.   “Lot area” means the total horizontal area within lot lines.
   44.   “Lot depth” means the mean horizontal distance between the front and
rear lot lines.
   45.   “Lot lines” means the lines bounding a lot.
      A.   “Front lot line” means a line separating the lot from the street on
which it fronts.
      B.   “Rear lot line” means the lot line opposite and most distant from
the front lot line.
      C.   “Side lot lines” means any lot line other than a front or rear lot
line.
   46.   “Lot of record” means a lot which the contract or deed has been
recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Black Hawk County, prior to
January 1, 1983.
   47.   “Lot width” means the width of a lot measured at the building line and
at straight angles to its depths.
   48.   “Lumber yard” means a premises on which primarily new lumber and
related building materials are sold.
   49.   “Manufactured home” means a factory built single-family structure,
which is manufactured under the authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403, National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, and is to be
used as a place for human habitation, but which is not constructed with a
permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than for the
purpose of moving it to a permanent site, and which does not have permanently
attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles. A mobile home is not a
manufactured home. For the purpose of these regulations, a manufactured home
built after June 15, 1976, shall bear the seal certifying that it is in
compliance with the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1974. For the purpose of these regulations, manufactured homes
shall be subject to the same standards as site-built dwellings.
   50.   “Mobile home” means a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It
does not include recreational vehicles or travel trailers. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed as permitting for occupying a mobile home in other
than an approved mobile home park or site.
   51.   “Mobile home park or trailer park” means any lot or portion of a lot
upon which two or more mobile homes or trailers occupied for dwelling or
sleeping purposes are located, regardless of whether or not a charge is made
for such accommodations.
   52.   “Modular home” means factory-built housing certified as meeting the
State Building Code as applicable to modular housing. For the purpose of these
regulations, once certified by the State, modular homes shall be subject to the
same standards as site-built dwellings.
   53.   “Motel,” “auto court,” or “motor lodge” means a building or group of
attached or detached buildings containing individual sleeping or living units
for overnight auto tourists, with parking facilities conveniently located to
each such unit, and may include such accessory facilities such as swimming
pool, restaurant, meeting rooms, etc.
   54.   “Nonconforming use” means the lawful use of any building or land that
was established prior to, or at the time of, passage of this chapter (or
amendments thereto) which does not conform after the passage of the ordinance
codified in this chapter (or amendments thereto) with the use regulations of
the district in which it is situated.
   55.   “Nursing home” or “convalescent home” means a building or structure
having accommodations and where care is provided for invalid, infirm, aged,
convalescent, or physically disabled or injured persons, not including insane
and other mental cases, inebriate, or contagious cases.
   56.   “Parking lot” means a parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking
spaces.
   57.   “Parking space” means an area of not less than 180 square feet plus
necessary maneuvering space for the parking of a motor vehicle. Space for
maneuvering, incidental to parking or unparking, shall not encroach upon any
public right-of-way. Parking spaces for other than residential use shall be of
a surface material approved by the City Council.
   58.   “Principal use” means the main use of land or structures as
distinguished from an accessory use.
   59.   “Right-of-way” means the land area the right to possession of which is
secured or reserved by the contracting authority for road purposes.
   60.   “Road” means all property dedicated or intended for public or private
road, street, alley, highway, freeway, or roadway purposes, or to public
easements therefor.
   61.   “Road lines” means a dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of
land and a contiguous road.
   62.   “Rooming house” means a building where a room or rooms are provided
for compensation of three or more persons.
   63.   “Sign (exterior)” means a sign which directs attention to a business,
profession, service, product, or activity sold or offered upon the premises
where such sign is located. An exterior sign is attached flat to the building
or structure, or projecting out from the building or structure, or erected upon
the roof of a building or structure.
   64.   “Sign (freestanding or post)” means any sign erected or affixed in a
rigid manner to any pole or post and which carries any advertisement strictly
incidental and subordinate to a lawful use of the premises on which it is
located, including signs, or sign devices, indicating the business transacted,
services rendered, or goods sold or produced on the premises by an occupant
thereof.
   65.   “Sign (illuminated)” means a sign designed to give forth artificial
light or through transparent or translucent material from a source of light
within such sign, including, but not limited to, neon and exposed lamp signs.
   66.   “Sign (off-site)” means a sign other than an on-site sign.
   67.   “Sign (on-site) means a sign relating to its subject matter to the
premises on which it is located or to products, accommodations, services, or
activities on the premises.
   68.   “Special permit” means a use allowed in any district after a public
hearing by the City Council and recommendation of the Planning and Zoning
Commission that meets the necessary conditions and safeguards for its
operation.
   69.   “Stable (private)” means a building or structure used or intended to
be used for housing horses belonging to the owner of the property only for
noncommercial purposes.
   70.   “Stable (public)” or “riding academy” means a building or structure
used or intended to be used for the housing only of horses on a fee basis.
Riding instruction may be given in connection with a public stable or riding
academy.
   71.   “Stable (riding club)” means a building or structure used or intended
to be used for the housing only of horses by a group of persons for
noncommercial purposes.
   72.   “Storage yards” means an area used for the storage of new and used
material, equipment, tools, machinery, supplies, and vehicles which is not in
use at all times, but which is necessary for the conduct of business which may
or may not be located on the premises.
   73.   “Story” means that portion of a building included between the surface
of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no
floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling or roof next
above it.
   74.   “Story (half)” means a space under a sloping roof which has the line
of intersecting or roof decking and wall face not more than four feet above the
top floor level.
   75.   “Street line” means a dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of
land and a contiguous street.
   76.   “Street, road, drive, alley, or entrance (private)” means all property
intended for use by vehicular traffic, but not dedicated to the public, nor
controlled and maintained by a political subdivision.
   77.   “Street, road, drive, alley, or entrance (public)” means all property
intended for use by vehicular traffic which has been dedicated to the public or
deeded to a political subdivision.
   78.   “Structural alteration” means any change or replacement in the type of
construction or in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls
and partitions, columns, beams, or girders, beyond ordinary repairs and
maintenance. The enlargement of the size or height of a building shall be
constructed to be a structural alteration.
   79.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected with a fixed
location on the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the
ground. Among other things, “structures” includes buildings, mobile homes,
billboards, and poster panels.
   80.   “Tourist home” means a residential building in which rooms are
available for rental purposes as overnight sleeping accommodations, primarily
for transients.
   81.   “Trailer or mobile home.” See “Mobile home.”
   82.   “Trailer or mobile home park.” See “Mobile home park or trailer park”.
   83.   “Travel trailer or motor home” means a vehicle customarily used for
vacation or recreational purposes, defined and licensed in accordance with
Section 321.1(68) of the Code of Iowa, 1981.
   84.   “Truck terminal” means an establishment for the receipt and delivery
of freight, which may include an assembly, dividing, re-routing, and
dispatching of loads. It will typically include a building or buildings with
docks or management offices or both. It shall not include a long-term inactive
storage of freight, nor exposed outside storage of used tires, parts, or
wrecked vehicles of any kind.
   85.   “Use” means any activity, occupation, business, or operation carried
on, or intended to be carried on, in a building or structure or on a tract of
land.
   86.   “Variance” means a device which grants a property owner relief from
certain provisions of this chapter, which the Board of Adjustment is permitted
to grant in cases where strict enforcement of such provisions would cause undue
hardship owing to circumstances unique to the individual property on which the
variance is sought.
   87.   “Yard” means an open space on the same lot with a building or
structure. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the depth of a
front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the depth shall be determined by
measuring from the lot line to the furthest projection of the building at a
height of 30 inches above the ground, except that the width of the overhang in
excess of two feet shall be added to the depth requirement. In measuring a yard
for the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the same method
employed to determine width of front and rear yards shall be used.
      A.   “Front yard” means a yard extending across the full width of the lot
and measured between the adjacent right-of-way line and the building. (See
Examples of Yard Definitions below.)
      B.   “Rear yard” means a yard extending across the full width of a lot
and measured between the rear lot line and the building or any projections
other than steps, unenclosed balconies, or unenclosed porches. On both corner
lots and interior lots, the opposite end of the lot from the front yard. (See
Examples of Yard Definitions below.)
      C.   “Side yard” means a yard extending from the front yard to the rear
yard and measured between the side lot lines and the nearest building. (See
Examples of Yard Definitions below.)
      D.   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
12ee6379c33e9d86c17b9ae125c0947557058f7f/IMAGES/0-0-0-1660.png]
   88.   “Zoning administrator” means the administrative officer designated or
appointed by the City Council to administer and enforce the regulations
contained in this chapter.
165.06   ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   1.   Districts Established. For the purpose and intent of this chapter, the
incorporated area of the City is divided into seven classes of districts. The
use, height, and area regulations are uniform in each class of district. The
districts shall be known as:
      A.   A (Agricultural) District
      B.   R-1 (Residential) District
      C.   R-2 (Residential) District
      D.   R-3 (Multiple Residential) District
      E.   C-1 (Central Commercial) District
      F.   C-2 (Outlying Commercial) District
      G.   I (Industrial) District
   2.   Boundaries and Official Map.
      A.   The boundaries of these districts are indicated upon the Official
Zoning Map of the City, which, with all notations, designations, references,
and other matters shown thereon, shall be as much a part of this chapter as if
fully described and set forth in this chapter. (See Editor’s Note at the end of
this section.) The Official Zoning Map shall be posted in the public office of
the City Hall.
      B.   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are
made in the district boundaries or other matters portrayed on the Official
Zoning Map, the resolution number and date of such change shall be recorded by
the City Clerk on the Official Zoning Map and in the Editor’s Note at the end
of this section.
      C.   In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged,
destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of
changes and additions, the City Council, by resolution, shall adopt a new
Official Zoning Map which shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map. The
new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in
the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall have the effect of
amending the original Zoning Ordinance or any subsequent amendment thereof.
   3.   Zoning Map Adopted. The ordinance codified in this chapter adopts the
proposed digital Official Zoning Map, including paper copy, as the Official Elk
Run Heights Zoning Map.
   4.   Interpretation of District Boundaries. Where uncertainty exists with
respect to the boundaries of the various districts as shown on the Official
Zoning Map accompanying the ordinance codified in this chapter and made a part
of this chapter, the following rules shall apply:
      A.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways, alleys, or other public rights-of-way shall be construed to
follow such centerlines; upon the vacation of the public right-of-way, the
boundaries shall be interpreted as following the condition of the former right-
of-way.
      B.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
      C.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following City limits shall be
construed as following City limits.
      D.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be midway between the main tracks.
      E.   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the shoreline shall be
construed as moving with the actual shoreline; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerline of stream, river, or other bodies of
water shall be construed to follow such centerline.
      F.   Boundaries not capable of being determined in the previous
subsections shall be as dimensioned on the Official Zoning Map or, if not
dimensioned, shall be determined by the scale shown on the Map.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The Elk Run Heights, Iowa, Zoning Ordinance, adopted in July 12, 1983, by
Ordinance No. 112, and amendments thereto, contained herein, are a part of
this Code of Ordinances and are in full force and effect. The following
ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map of the City
and have not been codified herein, but are specifically saved from repeal
and are in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED  ORDINANCE ADOPTED
296       10-8-24
297       11-12-24
 
165.07   GENERAL REGULATIONS AND PROVISIONS.
   1.   New Annexations – District Designation. All territory which may
hereafter be annexed to the City shall automatically be classified as in the A
District until such classification shall have been changed by an amendment to
the Zoning Ordinance, as provided by law.
   2.   Conformance Required. Except as provided, no building, structure, or
premises shall hereafter be used, and no building shall be erected, extended,
converted, moved, rebuilt, or altered, except in conformity with all the
district regulations established by this chapter for the district in which it
is located.
   3.   Building Location Restrictions. Every building hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be located on a lot as defined in this chapter, and
in no case shall there be more than one main building on one lot, unless
otherwise provided by this chapter. More than one industrial, commercial,
multiple dwelling, or institutional building may be erected upon a single lot
or tract in a district permitting these uses, but the yards and open spaces
required around the boundaries of the lot or tract shall not be encroached upon
by any such building, nor shall there be any change in intensity of use
regulations.
   4.   Continuing Existing Uses. The lawful use of a building existing at the
time of the enactment of the ordinance codified in this chapter may be
continued even though such use may not conform with the regulations of this
chapter for the district in which it is located. Such use shall become known as
a nonconforming use and shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   5.   Nonconforming Uses and Structures. No existing building or premises
devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter in the district in which such
building or premises is located, except when required by law, shall be
enlarged, extended, reconstructed, substituted, or structurally altered, unless
the use thereof is changed to a use permitted in the district in which such
building or premises is located, except as follows:
      A.   Restoration. Any nonconforming building or structure damaged more
than 60 percent of its replacement value, exclusive of the foundations, at the
time of damage by fire, flood, explosion, war, riot, or act of God, shall not
be restored or reconstructed and used as before such happening, but if less
than 60 percent damaged above the foundation, it may be restored,
reconstructed, or used as before; provided, that it be started within six
months of such happening, and be built of like or similar materials.
      B.   Discontinuance. Whenever any nonconforming use of a building,
structure or land has been discontinued for a period of six months, such use
shall not thereafter be reestablished, and any subsequent use shall be in
conformance with the regulations of this chapter.
      C.   Substitution. If no structural alterations are made, a nonconforming
use of a building may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or of
a more restricted classification. Whenever a nonconforming use of a building,
structure, or land has been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming
use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted use.
      D.   Repairs and Maintenance. Ordinary repairs and maintenance of a
structure containing a nonconforming use shall be permitted.
   6.   Water Supply and Sewage Disposal. Every residence, business, trade, or
industry hereafter established, which requires water supply and sewage disposal
facilities, shall provide facilities which conform with the regulations of the
City and the County Department of Health.
   7.   Accessory Uses.
      A.   Accessory uses are permitted in any zoning district in connection
with any principal use which is permitted.
      B.   Accessory uses may be erected or established upon any lot or tract
of land; provided, that they comply with the following:
         (1)   No accessory use is permitted within the limits of a front yard.
         (2)   Accessory uses shall not be located nearer to the side or rear
lot line than is permitted within each designated zoned district.
         (3)   An accessory building which is not a part of the principal
building shall not occupy more than 30 percent of the rear yard; however, this
regulation shall not be interpreted to prohibit the construction of a 440
square foot garage on a minimum rear yard;
         (4)   No accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.
   8.   Lot Sizes. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall hereafter
be built, moved, or remodeled, and no building, structure, or land shall
hereafter be used, occupied, arranged, or designed, for use or occupancy on a
lot which is smaller in area, or area per dwelling unit, narrower in width, or
shallower in depth than the minimum requirements of the district in which the
land is located.
   9.   Area Regulations. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall
hereafter be built or moved or remodeled, and no building, structure, or land
shall hereafter be used, occupied, or designed for use or occupancy so as to
provide any setback or front, side, or rear yard that is less than that
specified for the zoning district in which such district or use of land is
located or maintained.
   10.   Street Frontage Required. Except as permitted in this chapter, no lot
shall contain any building used in whole or in part for residence purposes
unless such lot abuts for at least 40 feet on at least one street, or unless it
has an exclusive unobstructed private easement of access or be not more than
one single-family dwelling for such frontage or easement, except that a common
easement of access at least 24 feet wide may be provided for two or more such
single-family dwellings or for one or more two-family or multiple dwellings.
   11.   Corner Lots. For corner lots platted after the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, the street side yard shall be equal in
width to the setback regulations of the lots to the rear having frontage on the
intersecting street. The side yard regulation shall apply to the longer street
side of the lot except in the case of reverse frontage where the corner lot
faces an intersecting street. In this case, there shall be a side yard on the
longer street side of the corner lot of not less than 50 percent of the setback
required on the lots to the rear of such corner lot, and no accessory building
on such corner lot shall project beyond the setback line of the lots in the
rear.
   12.   Lot Area Computation. In all districts, lot area requirements shall be
computed exclusive of street, road, alley, or highway right-of-way.
   13.   Reduction of Lots. No lot shall be sold, divided, or set off in such a
manner that either the portion sold, divided, or set off, or the portion
remaining, shall be less than the minimum size prescribed by the regulators
relating to the district in which it is located, unless it becomes a part of an
adjacent lot meeting those requirements. No part of a yard, acreage, or other
open space provided about any building or structure for the purpose of
complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included as part of a
yard, acreage, or other open space required under this chapter for another
building or structure. Off-street parking and loading areas may occupy all or
part of any required yard or open space except as otherwise specified in this
chapter.
   14.   Approved Plats. Whenever the plat of a land subdivision on record in
the office of the County Recorder shows a setback building line along any
frontage for the purpose of creating a front yard or side street yard line, the
building line thus shown shall apply along such frontage in place of any other
yard line required in this chapter unless specific yard requirements in this
chapter require a greater setback.
   15.   Pending Applications For Building Permits. Nothing contained in this
chapter shall require any change in the overall layout, plans, construction,
size, or designated use of any building, or part thereof, for which approvals
and required building permits have been granted before the enactment of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, the construction which, conforming with
such plans, shall have been started prior to the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, and completion thereof carried on in a
normal manner and not discontinued for reasons other than those beyond the
builder’s control.
   16.   Gasoline Filling Stations.
      A.   No gasoline filling station or a commercial customer or employee
parking lot for 25 or more motor vehicles, or a parking garage or automobile
repair shop, shall have an entrance or exit for vehicles within 200 feet along
the same side of a street of any school, public playground, church, hospital,
public library, or institution for dependents or for children, except where
such property is in another block or on another street which the lot in
question does not abut.
      B.   No gasoline filling station or public garage shall be permitted
where any fuel filling appliance is located within 12 feet of any street line
or within 25 feet from any R District where such appliance is within a
building.
      C.   In any district where permitted, a service station shall be subject
to the following regulations:
         (1)   The area for use by motor vehicles, except access drives
thereto, as well as any structures, shall not encroach on any required yard
area.
         (2)   All major repair work shall be done within a completely enclosed
building.
         (3)   All automobile parts, dismantled vehicles, and merchandise shall
be stored within the confines of the building during the hours when the
business is not operating.
   17.   Home Occupations. A home occupation shall encompass not more than one-
half of the floor area of any one floor within the habitable area of the
residence or an adjoining enclosed structure, and employ no more than one
nonresident assistant. An adjoining enclosed structure shall not be used for
automobile repair storage or other related purposes. Only one nonilluminated
sign is permitted which can be no larger than two square feet, and must be
placed flat against any one side of the residence. A home occupation must be
approved by the City Council after receiving a recommendation from the City
Planning and Zoning Commission. In the event that the home occupation is
discontinued or the premises are vacated or sold, a new application must be
applied for before a new occupant may continue or establish a home occupation.
   18.   Development and Use of Rezoned Land – Time Limitations. Unless any
lot, tract, or parcel of land which has been zoned to a less restrictive
classification than A (Agricultural) District as provided in this chapter, has
been used or developed within two years from such rezoning, or unless there
exists an unexpired building permit for the development thereof at the end of
such two years, the City Planning and Zoning Commission may, after seven days’
notice, in writing, to the property owner of such land and providing a
reasonable opportunity to be heard, initiate and recommend to the City Council
that the land be rezoned to its zoning classification as established at the
date of the passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
   19.   Dwelling Standards. The following standards shall apply to all new
dwellings.
      A.   The dwelling shall be affixed to a permanent foundation system, in
accordance with the Uniform Building Code standards.
      B.   The minimum average dimension of the width of the main body of the
dwelling unit shall not be less than 20 feet.
      C.   The minimum floor area shall be as follows:
         (1)   Single-family dwelling, one story
            a.   R-1:   1,040 square feet.
            b.   R-2:   950 square feet.
         (2)   Single-family dwelling, two story
            a.   R-1:   1,370 square feet.
            b.   R-2:   1,280 square feet.
         (3)   Single-family dwelling, three story
            a.   R-1:   1,690 square feet.
            b.   R-2:   1,600 square feet.
         (4)   Two-family dwelling, one story
            a.   860 square feet per dwelling unit;
         (5)   Two-family dwelling, two story
            a.   1,220 square feet per dwelling unit;
         (6)   Two-family dwelling, three story
            a.   1,600 square feet per dwelling unit;
         (7)   Multiple-family dwelling
            a.   400 square feet per dwelling unit.
   20.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must
be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. This shall include natural waterways.
165.08   SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   1.   Off-Street Loading. In all Districts, spaces for loading and unloading
shall be provided in accordance with the following minimum requirements: In any
district, in connection with any use permitted by this chapter having a gross
floor area of 10,000 square feet or more, there shall be at least one off-
street loading space plus one additional such loading space for each additional
20,000 square feet or major fraction thereof of gross floor area; and, each
such loading space shall be not less than 12 feet in width and 40 feet in
length.
   2.   Off-Street Parking.
      A.   In conjunction with any principal building hereafter erected, or any
use of land hereafter established, there shall be provided on the same lot
therewith sufficient parking spaces to meet the minimum requirements specified
herein:
         (1)   Auditoriums, assembly halls, dance halls, theaters, gymnasiums,
and skating rinks: One space for each four seats or bench seating capacity.
         (2)   Boarding, rooming, or lodging houses: One space for each rented
sleeping room.
         (3)   Bowling alleys: Four spaces per each lane.
         (4)   Churches: One space for each five seats or pew seating capacity
in the main seating area.
         (5)   Dwellings: Two spaces for each dwelling unit.
         (6)   Home occupations: Two spaces per dwelling unit plus one space
for each 200 feet of floor area devoted to such home occupation.
         (7)   Hospitals, sanitariums, homes for the aged, nursing homes, or
similar institutions: One space for each three beds, plus one for each two
employees.
         (8)   Hotels or motels: One space for each sleeping room or suite,
plus one space for each 200 square feet in commercial floor area contained
therein.
         (9)   Industrial and/or manufacturing: One space for each two
employees on the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate all trucks
and other vehicles used in connection therewith.
         (10)   Offices, business and professional agencies, banks, medical or
dental clinics: Six spaces, plus one additional parking space for each 400
square feet of floor area over 1,000 square feet.
         (11)   Private clubs or lodges: One space for every seven memberships.
         (12)   Restaurants, night clubs, cafés, or similar recreation or
amusement establishments: Three spaces for each 100 square feet of floor area.
         (13)   Retail stores or personal service establishments: One space for
each 200 square feet of floor area.
         (14)   Wholesale establishments and warehouses: One space for each two
employees.
      B.   The parking space requirement for a use not specifically mentioned
herein shall be the same as required for a use of a similar nature.
      C.   Whenever a building existing prior to the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter is enlarged to the extent of 25 percent or
more in floor area, such building or use shall then and thereafter comply with
the parking requirements set forth in this chapter.
   3.   Outdoor Advertising Signs and Billboards. The regulations governing
outdoor advertising signs and billboards shall comply with all State and
federal regulations.
      A.   In all districts, where permitted, billboards shall be set back from
any proposed or existing right-of-way line of any County road, street, or
highway at least as far as the required front yard depth for a principal
building in such districts. This is not to include business identification,
directional, and other incidental signs otherwise permitted under the
provisions of this chapter.
      B.   No outdoor advertising sign or billboard shall be permitted within a
corner lot when the sides are formed by the lines of streets intersecting at an
angle of less than 60 degrees and a line joining points on such lines 150 feet
distant from their point of intersection. Signs shall be located in such a
manner as not to obscure or otherwise interfere with the effectiveness of an
official traffic sign, signal, or device or which will obstruct or interfere
with the driver’s view of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic.
      C.   Portable signs of a temporary nature, such as trailer mounted, shall
be of a maximum four feet by eight feet size, and nonilluminated. These signs
will be allowed in all districts for a total of seven consecutive days after
which they must be removed for a period of 30 consecutive days before they may
be reinstated.
      D.   Business Signs.
         (1)   Signs, any part of which project out from the building from four
to 18 inches shall be erected so that no portion of the sign is less than eight
feet above grade.
         (2)   Signs which project more than 18 inches from the building must
be at least 12 feet above grade and may extend a maximum of eight feet in
height.
         (3)   Moving, flashing, rotating, illuminated signs or colored lights
that may be confused with traffic lights and therefore be potentially
hazardous, are not permitted.
         (4)   Freestanding commercial or industrial signs shall not project
over the public right-of-way.
         (5)   Signs shall be structurally safe and in good repair, including
signs connected to a building facade.
         (6)   One temporary on-site sign, not illuminated and not exceeding
four square feet in size, advertising the sale or rental of the property may be
placed in a required front yard without a permit. Any sign advertising the sale
or rental of property exceeding four square feet in size is required to have a
permit.
   4.   Height Exceptions. The district regulations as set forth in this
section shall qualify or supplement as the case may be:
      A.   Public, semipublic, or public service buildings, hospitals,
institutions, or schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to
height not exceeding 60 feet, and churches and temples may be erected to a
height not exceeding 75 feet if the building is set back from side and rear
yard lines heretofore established an additional foot for each two feet of
building height above the height limit otherwise imposed in the district in
which the building is located.
      B.   Single-family and two-family dwellings may be increased in height by
not more than 10 feet when the side and rear yards are increased over the yard
requirements of the district in which they are located by not less than 10
feet, but they shall not exceed three stories in height.
      C.   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevators, bulkheads, fire towers,
monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers,
ornamental towers and spires, church steeples, radio towers, and necessary
mechanical apparatus, may be erected to any safe height not in conflict with
existing or hereafter adopted regulations of the City.
   5.   Temporary Buildings. Temporary buildings that are used in conjunction
with construction work only may be permitted in any district during the period
the work is underway, but such temporary buildings shall be removed upon the
completion of the construction work as determined by the administrative
officer.
   6.   Fences.
      A.   Fences. The following fences shall be regulated:
         (1)   Constructed: posts/rails, panels, stacked blocks, woven wire,
etc.
         (2)   Naturally grown: trees, bushes, shrubs, hedges, etc.
      B.   Location Restrictions. Unless otherwise provided by this chapter or
other section of this code of ordinances, no fence shall be placed on any lot
or tract outside the surveyed lot lines of a property. Proof of lot line
location shall be provided by the property owner, or a representative, prior to
receiving a permit for installing a fence along a lot line.
      C.   Required Openings. Unless otherwise provided by this chapter or
other sections of this code of ordinances, any fence installed on residential
property within required front or street side yards shall contain openings
constituting no less than 50 percent of the surface of the fence. No fence
shall cause an unsafe condition to pedestrian or vehicular traffic by obscuring
the visibility available to vehicles exiting a driveway. No fence shall obscure
clear view of traffic at intersections, or create a safety hazard to
pedestrians or vehicular traffic in the “sight triangle,” an area forming a
triangle bounded by the street right-of-way lines or property lines of a corner
lot and a straight line joining points on the right-of-way lines 25 feet from
the point of intersection of the right-of-way or property lines.
      D.   Figure 165.08(6)
      E.   
      F.   Effect on Adjacent Properties. No fence shall damage adjacent
property by obstructing views, inhibiting solar access, or hindering
ventilation. The finished/decorative surface of any fence shall face toward
adjacent properties and street frontage.
      G.   Required Permits. In addition to proof of lot line location, an
illustration of proposed fence installation, including type of fence, materials
to be used, and dimensions for placement of fence, shall be required for
issuance of permit. “Iowa One Call” shall be contacted at (800) 292-8989 at
least two days prior to any digging or excavation, in order to locate
underground utilities.
      H.   Residential Fences. Fences installed within R-1, R-2, and R-
3 Districts are subject to the following provisions:
         (1)   Heights. The maximum height of a fence within a front yard or
street side yard setback shall be four feet. The maximum height for any fence
in any other part of the yard will be six feet, except that a privacy fence may
be eight feet, as long as it is located no nearer the street than on the
building line in a front yard and street side yard.
         (2)   Materials. Constructed fences shall be made of wood, chain link,
PVC/resin, bonded paint steel panels, or masonry materials only.
         (3)   Civic Uses in Residential Districts. The maximum height of
fences installed as part of primary and secondary educational facilities or
park and recreation use types within residential zoning districts shall be the
same as those for residential users.
      I.   Agricultural Fences. Barbed wire and/or electrified fences are
permitted only within Agricultural Districts; however, no wire fences or
livestock fences shall be permitted within any street yard. Height and material
restrictions shall be the same as Commercial and Industrial Districts.
      J.   Commercial and Industrial Fences. Fences installed in Commercial and
Industrial Districts are subject to the following provisions:
         (1)   The maximum height of a fence for any permitted use in a
Commercial District shall be eight feet. The maximum height for any permitted
use in an Industrial District shall be eight feet. (See the following
Subsection (2).)
         (2)   The Board of Adjustment may approve greater fence heights on a
case-by-case basis if it concludes that such permission furthers the health,
safety, and welfare of the residents of the City.
      K.   Nonconforming Fences. The lawful use of a fence existing at the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter may be continued,
although such fence does not conform to the provisions set forth in this
chapter. Any extension or alteration of an existing nonconforming fence must
meet the provisions of the ordinance codified in this chapter as for new
fences.
      L.   Appeals. Denials, revocations, or cancellations of a building
permit, based on the provisions of this section, may be appealed to the Board
of Adjustment as set forth in Section
165.19 of this chapter.
165.09   A (AGRICULTURAL) DISTRICT.
   1.   Purpose. The A (Agricultural) District is designed to preserve
agricultural resources from incompatible nonagricultural uses until such time
as they are ready to be developed.
   2.   Permitted uses. Principal permitted uses in the A District are as
follows:
      A.   Agriculture and the usual agricultural buildings and structures, but
not on a scale that would be obnoxious to adjacent areas because of noise or
odors. This provision shall not be construed to allow livestock husbandry of
common farm-type animals or specialized poultry, pigeon, rabbit, and other
animal farms.
      B.   One-family dwellings.
      C.   Truck gardening, private nurseries, and greenhouses.
      D.   Private riding stables. Such structure must be located at least 100
feet from all boundary lines of the property on which it is located.
      E.   Grain elevators with usual accessory structures.
      F.   Forest and forestry activities.
      G.   Parks, playgrounds, recreational fields, golf courses, and public
and private outdoor recreation facilities.
      H.   Cemeteries, both public and private (minimum 10 acres).
      I.   Public utility structures and the necessary equipment for the
operation thereof.
      J.   Transmitting stations and towers shall be subject to the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the approval of the
City Council. The base of the tower must be located a distance at least equal
to the height of the tower from all of the lot lines.
      K.   Airports and landing fields; provided, that adequate approach and
clear zones are obtained.
      L.   Buildings erected and used by a department of the federal, State,
County, or municipal governments.
      M.   Mining, extraction, and processing of sand, gravel, top soil, or
other natural resources, provided the land is restored to a condition suitable
for the permitted uses of this district subject to recommendations of the
Planning and Zoning Commission and approval by City Council. The City Council
may require special conditions for such use.
   3.   Permitted Accessory Uses. The following accessory uses and structures
shall be permitted in the A District; provided, that they conform to the
requirements of Section
165.07 of this chapter:
      A.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted principal uses, and structures which are primarily adopted by
reason of nature and area for use for agricultural purposes.
      B.   Home occupations.
      C.   Private garage or carport.
      D.   One temporary board or sign, not to exceed 50 square feet in area,
referring to the construction, lease, hire, or role of a building premise or
lots; which sign shall refer to property on which the sign is located, and
shall be removed as soon as the premises are sold or leased or construction
completed.
      E.   Temporary buildings or structures for uses incidental to
construction work, which shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of
the construction work.
      F.   Roadside stands, offering for sale only agricultural products or
other products produced on the premises.
      G.   Signs, not exceeding 10 square feet in area, identifying the
premises or indicating the product grown or material and equipment used on the
premises.
   4.   Height Regulations. No limitations; provided, however, that no
structure shall be permitted to extend into the approach zone, or clear zones
or other restricted air space required for the protection of any public
airport.
   5.   Area Regulations. The minimum area regulations that shall be observed
in the A District are set out in Table 165.09.
TABLE 165.09
A (Agricultural) District Area Regulations
    Lot Area (in Lot Width (in Front Yard   Side Yard    Rear Yard Required
Use acres)       feet)         Required (in Required (in (in feet)
                               feet)        feet)
TABLE 165.09
A (Agricultural) District Area Regulations
              Lot Area (in Lot Width (in Front Yard   Side Yard    Rear Yard
Use           acres)       feet)         Required (in Required (in Required (in
                                         feet)        feet)        feet)
Dwellings     35           330           50           25           50
(farm)
Single-family 2            200           50           25           50
dwellings
Other         Recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission and approval
permitted     of the City Council
uses1
Accessory                                503          502          502
uses
1Subsections 165.09(2)(I), (J), (K), and (L) are exempt from minimum lot size;
however, such lot size shall be at the discretion of the Planning Zoning
Commission with approval of the City Council.
2If in rear yard, it may be placed within four feet of the side or rear lot
line.
3Subsections 165.09(3)(D), (E), and (F) are exempt from front yard setbacks.
 
165.10   R-1 (RESIDENTIAL) DISTRICT.
   1.   Purpose. The R-1 (Residential) District is designed to provide areas of
low density single-family housing.
   2.   Permitted uses. Principal permitted uses in the R-1 District are as
follows:
      A.   Single-family dwellings.
      B.   Churches and institutions of a religious, philanthropic, or
charitable character, including public libraries.
      C.   Public and parochial schools and other educational institutions
having an established current curriculum similar as ordinarily given in public
schools.
      D.   Public utility structures and equipment necessary for the operation
thereof.
      E.   Parks, playgrounds, recreational fields, and outdoor recreational
facilities which are not conducted for commercial ventures.
      F.   Factory-built housing, except mobile homes.
   3.   Permitted accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses in the R-1 District
are as follows:
      A.   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to
the permitted principal uses, such as garages, tool storage buildings, and
fences.
      B.   Home occupations.
      C.   One temporary board or sign not to exceed 50 square feet in area
pertaining to the construction, lease, hire, or role of a building, premises,
or lots; which sign shall refer to property on which the sign is located, and
shall be removed as soon as the premises are sold, leased, or construction
completed.
      D.   Temporary buildings or structures for uses incidental to
construction work, which shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of
the construction work.
      E.   Church bulletin boards.
   4.   Height regulations. Height regulations in the R-1 District are as
follows:
      A.   Principal uses. Two and one-half stories or 35 feet, whichever is
lower.
      B.   Accessory Uses. One story or 18 feet, whichever is lower.
   5.   Area regulations. The minimum regulations that shall be observed in the
R-1 District are set out in Table 165.10.
 
TABLE 165.10
R-1 (Residential) District Area Regulations
           Lot Area (in Lot Width (in Front Yard   Side Yard    Rear Yard
Use        square feet) feet)         Required (in Required (in Required (in
                                      feet)        feet)        feet)
Single-
Family     8,400        70            25           7            30
Dwelling
Other
Permitted  10,000       100           30           10           30
Uses
Accessory  Two feet side and rear yard from furthest projection, if accessory
Structures structure is located in rear yard and at least five feet behind
           dwelling unit.
 
165.11   R-2 (RESIDENTIAL) DISTRICT.
   1.   Purpose. The R-2 (Residential) District is designed to provide areas of
medium density housing and for transitional uses.
   2.   Permitted Uses. Principal permitted uses in the R-2 District are as
follows:
      A.   Any use permitted in the R-1 District.
      B.   Two-family dwellings.
      C.   Day nursery, nursery school, or day care facilities (private or
public).
   3.   Permitted Accessory Uses. Permitted accessory uses in the R-2 District
are as follows:
      A.   Accessory uses as permitted in the R-1 District.
      B.   Other accessory uses and structures, not otherwise prohibited, and
customarily accessory and incidental to any principal permitted use.
   4.   Height Regulations. Height regulations in the R-2 District are as
follows:
      A.   Principal Uses. Three stories or 40 feet, whichever is lower.
      B.   Accessory Uses. One story or 18 feet, whichever is lower.
   5.   Area regulations. The minimum regulations that shall be observed in the
R-2 District are set out in Table 165.11.
 
TABLE 165.11
R-2 (Residential) District Area Regulations
           Lot Area (in Lot Width (in Front Yard   Side Yard    Rear Yard
Use        square feet) feet)         Required (in Required (in Required (in
                                      feet)        feet)        feet)
Single-
Family     7,000        60            25           5            25
Dwelling
Two-Family 8,400        70            25           7            25
Dwelling
Other
Permitted  10,000       80            30           7            30
Uses
Accessory  Two feet side and rear yard from furthest projection, if accessory
Structures structure is located in rear yard and at least five feet behind
           dwelling unit.
 
165.12   R-3 (MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL) DISTRICT.
   1.   Purpose. The R-3 (Multiple Residential) District is intended and
designed to provide for multiple-family dwellings, mobile home parks, hotels,
motels, and small commercial offices at a high density.
   2.   Permitted uses. Principal permitted uses in the R-3 District are as
follows:
      A.   Day nursery, nursery school, or day care (private or public).
      B.   Multiple-family dwellings.
      C.   Mobile home parks.
      D.   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      E.   Hotels, motels, and auto courts in which retail shops may be
operated for convenience of the occupants of the building; provided, however,
that there shall be no entrance to such place of business, except from the
inside of the building, nor shall any display of stock or goods for sale be so
arranged that it can be viewed from the outside of the building.
      F.   Offices such as:
         (1)   Accountants.
         (2)   Architects.
         (3)   Art schools.
         (4)   Artists.
         (5)   Barber shops.
         (6)   Beauty shops.
         (7)   Civil engineers.
         (8)   Collection agencies.
         (9)   Credit bureaus.
         (10)   Dental offices.
         (11)   Insurance.
         (12)   Lawyers.
         (13)   Medical offices with dispensary.
         (14)   Nurses registry.
         (15)   Psychologists.
         (16)   Public stenographers.
         (17)   Real estate.
         (18)   Other uses similar to the foregoing designated uses, but
subject to review by the Planning and Zoning Commission and approval of the
City Council;
      G.   Tourist home.
      H.   Hospitals, nursing and convalescent homes, and clinics, subject to
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission and approval of the City
Council. The City Council may require special conditions for such use.
   3.   Permitted accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses in the R-3 District
are as follows:
      A.   Accessory uses permitted in the R-2 District.
      B.   Other accessory uses and structures, not otherwise prohibited,
customarily accessory and incidental to any permitted principal use, including
an indirectly non-flashing lighted sign not to exceed one square foot for each
five feet of frontage of property occupied by the use in question.
      C.   Storage garages for personal belongings and tools relevant to the
maintenance of buildings where the lot is occupied by a multiple dwelling, a
hospital, or an institutional building.
   4.   Height regulations. No buildings shall exceed three stories or 45 feet
in height, whichever is lower, except additional height for additional stories
may be added at the rate of two feet in height for each one foot that the
building or portion thereof is set back from the required yard lines.
   5.   Area regulations. The minimum regulations that shall be observed in the
R-3 District are set out in Table 165.12.
TABLE 165.12
R-3 (Multiple Residential) District Area Regulations
             Lot Width (in Lot Area Per Front Yard   Side Yard    Rear Yard
Use Lot Area feet)         Family (in   Required (in Required (in Required (in
                           square feet) feet)        feet)        feet)
TABLE 165.12
R-3 (Multiple Residential) District Area Regulations
                                  Lot Area    Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
Use         Lot Area   Lot Width  Per Family  Required   Required  Required (in
                       (in feet)  (in square  (in feet)  (in feet) feet)
                                  feet)
Multi-
Family and
Other
Permitted
Uses:
1 and 1 ½  8,000 sq.  65         2,000 for   20         10        35
Stories     ft.                   the first 4
2 and 2 ½  8,000 sq.  65         units, plus 20         10        35
Stories     ft.                   850 per
3 Stories   8,000 sq.  70         unit on     20         10        35
            ft.                   1st, 2nd,
4 or More   10,000 sq.            and 3rd
Stories     ft.        80         floor       20         10        35

Motels and                        1,500 per
Auto        1 acre     100        unit        25         20        40
Courts1
Mobile Home 1 acre     100        3,000 per   25         20        40
Parks1                            unit
Accessory   Two feet side and rear yard from furthest projection, if accessory
Uses        structure is located in rear yard and at least five feet behind
            dwelling.
1All access drives to motels, auto courts, and mobile home parks shall be all-
weather, dust-free surfacing. Above yard requirements for motels, auto courts,
and mobile home parks apply to total area and no individual units. Side yard
requirements for motels, auto courts, and mobile home parks may be reduced to
10 feet where such motel, court, or park abuts a less restrictive zoning
district.
 
165.13   C-1 (CENTRAL COMMERCIAL) DISTRICT.
   1.   Purpose. The C-1 (Central Commercial) District is designed to
accommodate the needs of the Central Business District, allowing a wide range
of services and goods permitted for consumer daily and occasional shopping and
service needs.
   2.   Permitted Uses. Principal permitted uses in the C-1 District are as
follows:
      A.   Any use permitted in the R-3 District except multiple-family
dwellings and mobile home parks.
      B.   Auto parts stores.
      C.   Bakeries and others whose products are sold only on the premises.
      D.   Barber and beauty shops.
      E.   Banks and other financial institutions.
      F.   Business, professional offices, and governmental offices.
      G.   Clothing stores.
      H.   Florist and gift shops.
      I.   Hardware stores.
      J.   Jewelry stores.
      K.   Medical and dental clinics.
      L.   Pharmacy.
      M.   Public buildings, playgrounds, community buildings, public parks.
      N.   Public utilities.
      O.   Restaurants.
      P.   Television and appliance repair and sales.
      Q.   Video/movie film and equipment rental.
      R.   Accessory uses and buildings which are customarily incidental to the
above stated uses and including temporary buildings used in conjunction with
construction work, provided such buildings are removed promptly upon completion
of the construction work.
      S.   Churches.
      T.   Carpenter shops (subject to Subsection W(1) of this section).
Carpenter shops means businesses engaged in building or repairing wooden items
for consumer, residential, or commercial customers.
      U.   Electrical, plumbing, and heating shops (subject to Subsection W(1)
of this section). Electrical, plumbing and heating shops means businesses
engaged in fabrication, repair, and sales of residential or commercial
electrical and/or HVAC systems or components.
      V.   Small engine repair shops (subject to Subsection W(1) of this
section). Small engine repair shops means businesses engaged in the
maintenance, repair, overhaul, and sales of repair parts for small gasoline
engines used in yard and garden equipment.
      W.   Used car lots (Limited) (subject to Subsections (1) and (2) below).
Used car lots means businesses engaged in sales and/or trade of automobiles and
trucks with a maximum 10,000 pound GVWR, and limited to 20 vehicles displayed
on lot.
         (1)   Provision 1. Front parking area shall be used for licensed motor
vehicles only, and consist of concrete or asphalt paving. Front parking area
shall not cause water runoff to negatively impact adjacent properties. Items
stored in any rear yard shall be concealed from view of all adjacent
properties, using solid fence of at least six feet in height (subject to
provisions of Section 165.08(6) of this chapter).
         (2)   Provision 2. Front parking area (display lot) shall allow a
minimum of 180 square feet per vehicle displayed. No more than 20 vehicles
shall be displayed as ‘For Sale.’ Only vehicles that are fully-functional and
legal for operation on public roads shall be allowed on display lot. Any
inoperable vehicles (or parts thereof) shall only be allowed within building or
fenced rear yard.
   3.   Permitted Accessory Uses. Permitted accessory uses in the C-1 District
deemed to be of the same general character as the foregoing permitted uses, but
not including any use that may become obnoxious or offensive, are as follows:
      A.   Apartment above first story level of a store or shop with off-
street/on-site parking.
      B.   Grocery/convenience stores which may include gasoline sales.
   4.   Height Regulations. Height regulations in the C-1 Central Commercial
District are as follows:
      A.   Principal uses: two stories or 35 feet, whichever is lower;
      B.   Accessory uses: one story or 18 feet, whichever is lower;
      C.   Exterior or roof sign: exterior or roof signs shall not exceed 16
feet above the roof line.
   5.   Area Regulations. The minimum regulations that shall be observed in the
C-1 District are set out in Table 165.13.
 
TABLE 165.13
C-1 (Central Commercial) District Area Regulations
          Lot Area (in Lot Width (in Front Yard   Side Yard    Rear Yard
Use       acres)       feet)         Required (in Required (in Required (in
                                     feet)        feet)        feet)
Motels    1            100           25           20           40
                       Only as
Other                  required by a None, except when adjacent to R
Permitted As necessary proposed      Residential District, in which case not
Uses                   right-of-way  less than 15 feet.
                       line
Accessory All accessory buildings shall not project the front building line
Buildings of the principal building if the principal building setback line
          is increased.
 
165.14   C-2 (OUTLYING COMMERCIAL) DISTRICT.
   1.   Purpose. The C-2 (Outlying Commercial) District is intended and
designed for businesses, professions, and occupations which are located in
areas other than the Central Business District, and require off-street parking
areas and loading spaces.
   2.   Permitted uses. Principal permitted uses in the C-2 District are as
follows:
      A.   Apartments above first story level of a store or shop, with off-
street/on-site parking.
      B.   Apparel shops.
      C.   Art shops.
      D.   Automobile accessory stores.
      E.   Automobile, commercial truck and trailer, recreational vehicle,
motorcycle, and boat establishments for display, hire, rental, and sales
(including sales lots) and truck terminals.
      F.   Automobile, commercial truck and trailer, recreational vehicle,
motorcycle, and boat service/repair establishments. This subsection shall not
be construed to include automobile, tractor, or machinery wrecking and
rebuilding and used parts yards.
      G.   Bakeries or bakery outlets.
      H.   Banks, savings and loan associations, and similar financial
institutions.
      I.   Barbershops and beauty parlors.
      J.   Bicycle shops, sales and repair.
      K.   Bowling alleys.
      L.   Business offices, professional offices, and studios.
      M.   Business and vocational schools.
      N.   Camera stores.
      O.   Carpenter and cabinet-making shops.
      P.   Car wash with truck bay.
      Q.   Churches and temples.
      R.   Clothes cleaning and laundry pick-up stations.
      S.   Clothing stores.
      T.   Collection office of public utility.
      U.   Commercial parking lots and garages.
      V.   Confectionery stores, including ice cream or snack bars.
      W.   Dairy stores, retail only.
      X.   Dance studio.
      Y.   Delicatessens.
      Z.   Dental and medical clinics.
      AA.   Department stores.
      BB.   Drive-in restaurants.
      CC.   Drug stores.
      DD.   Dry goods stores.
      EE.   Florist shops.
      FF.   Furniture stores.
      GG.   Gasoline filling stations.
      HH.   Gift shops.
      II.   Grocery stores, including supermarkets.
      JJ.   Hardware stores.
      KK.   Hobby stores.
      LL.   Hotels and motels.
      MM.   Household appliances, sale, and repair.
      NN.   Jewelry stores and watch repair shops.
      OO.   Launderettes, coin-operated dry cleaning establishments, and dry
cleaning or pressing establishments using only nonflammable solvents.
      PP.   Lawn mower repair shops.
      QQ.   Locker plant for storage and retail sales only.
      RR.   Leather goods stores.
      SS.   Lumberyards.
      TT.   Music stores and music studios.
      UU.   Office supplies shops.
      VV.   Paint and wallpaper store.
      WW.   Pet shops.
      XX.   Photographic studios, printing and developing establishments.
      YY.   Plumbing and heating shops.
      ZZ.   Post offices.
      AAA.   Printing and lithographing shops.
      BBB.   Private clubs and lodges.
      CCC.   Publishing and engraving establishments.
      DDD.   Radio and television sales and repair shops.
      EEE.   Rental storage buildings.
      FFF.   Restaurants and taverns.
      GGG.   Sheet metal shops.
      HHH.   Shoe and hat repair shops.
      III.   Sporting goods stores.
      JJJ.   Tailor and dressmaking shops.
      KKK.   Theaters.
      LLL.   Toy stores.
      MMM.   Upholstering shops.
      NNN.   Used car lots.
      OOO.   Variety stores.
      PPP.   Video equipment rental and sales.
      QQQ.   Accessory uses and buildings which are customarily incidental to
the above stated uses but not including any use that may become obnoxious or
offensive.
   3.   Height regulations. Height regulations in the C-2 District are as
follows:
      A.   Principal uses: three stories or 45 feet, whichever is lower.
      B.   Accessory uses: one story or 18 feet, whichever is lower.
      C.   Exterior or roof sign: exterior or roof signs shall not exceed 16
feet above the roof line.
   4.   Area regulations. The minimum regulations that shall be observed in the
C-2 outlying commercial District are set out in Table 165.14.
 
TABLE 165.14
C-2 (Outlying Commercial) District Area Regulations
          Lot Area (in Lot Width (in Front Yard   Side Yard    Rear Yard
Use       acres)       feet)         Required (in Required (in Required (in
                                     feet)        feet)        feet)
Motels    1            100           25           20           40
                       Only as
Other                  required by a None, except when adjacent to R
Permitted As necessary proposed      District, in which case not less than 15
Uses                   right-of-way  feet.
                       line
Accessory All accessory buildings shall not project the front building line
Buildings of the principal building if the principal building setback line is
          increased.
 
165.15   I (INDUSTRIAL) DISTRICT.
   1.   Purpose. The I (Industrial) District is designed to provide for areas
of industry which will be compatible with community needs and which will impact
upon public services and utilities and surrounding property.
   2.   Permitted Uses. Principal permitted uses in the I District are as
follows:
      A.   Any use in the C District; provided, that no structure shall be used
for any dwelling, school, hospital, clinic, or other institution for human
care, except where incidental and necessary to a permitted principal use.
      B.   Farm implement establishment for the display, sale, hire, and repair
of such vehicles, including new and used sales lots.
      C.   Bakeries, other than those whose products are sold at retail only on
the premises.
      D.   Carting, express, hauling, or storage.
      E.   Circus, carnival, or similar transient enterprise; provided such
structures or buildings shall be at least 200 feet from any R District.
      F.   Concrete mixing, concrete products manufacture, and asphalt plant.
      G.   Contractors’ equipment storage yard or plant, or rental of equipment
commonly used by contractors; storage and sale of livestock, feed, and/or fuel,
provided dust is effectively controlled; and storage yards for vehicles of a
delivery or draying service.
      H.   Creamery, cheese processing, bottling works, wholesale ice cream
manufacturing, ice manufacturing, and cold storage plant.
      I.   Enameling, lacquering, or varnishing.
      J.   Foundry casting lightweight nonferrous metals, or electric foundry
not causing noxious fumes or odors.
      K.   Laboratories; experimental, film, or testing.
      L.   Livery stable or riding academy.
      M.   Manufacture of musical instruments and novelties.
      N.   Lumber yards and building material sales yard.
      O.   Manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, instruments, and
devices.
      P.   Manufacture of pottery or other similar ceramic products, using only
previously pulverized clay or kilns.
      Q.   Manufacture and repair of electric signs, advertising structures,
sheet metal products, including heating and ventilating equipment.
      R.   Sawmill, planing mill, including manufacture of wood products, not
involving chemical treatment.
      S.   Storage and warehouse businesses, but· not including any
manufacturing or fabricating.
      T.   The manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, or treatment
of cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and food products.
      U.   The manufacture, compounding, assembling, or treatment of articles
or merchandise from previously prepared materials such as bone, cloth, cork,
fiber, leather, paper, plastics, metals, or stones, tobacco, wax, yarns, and
wood.
      V.   Paint ball field and paint ball facility, which are designated for
the supervised recreational use of paint ball guns and for the purpose of
supervised paint ball activities, both indoor and outdoor.
   3.   Conditional uses.
      A.   The following uses may be permitted in the I District, subject to
approval of the City Council after notice and public hearing and report from
the Planning and Zoning Commission. In its determination upon a particular use
at the location requested, the Council shall consider all of the following
conditions:
         (1)   That the proposed location, design, construction, and operation
of the particular use adequately safeguards the health, safety, and general
welfare of persons residing or working in adjoining or surrounding property.
         (2)   That such use shall not impair an adequate supply of light and
air to surrounding property.
         (3)   That such use shall not unduly increase congestion in the
streets or public danger of fire and safety.
         (4)   That such use shall not diminish or impair established property
values in adjoining or surrounding property.
         (5)   That such use shall be in accord with the intent, purpose, and
spirit of this chapter and the land use policies of the City.
         (6)   That the best practical means known for the disposal of refuse
matter or water carried waste, the abatement of obnoxious or offensive odor,
dust. smoke, gas, noise, or similar nuisance, shall be employed.
         (7)   That all principal buildings and all accessory buildings to
structures, including loading and unloading facilities, shall be located at
least 200 feet from any R District and not less than 100 feet from any other
district.
      B.   The uses subject to the provisions of Subsection A of this section
are as follows:
         (1)   Agricultural seeding processing, storage, and sales.
         (2)   Recycling center to include wood waste or reusable lumber,
asphalt, concrete, plastic, cardboard/paper, and metal, where the premises upon
which such activities are conducted are wholly enclosed within a building with
a roof. Recycling should not be construed to include waste or used tires.
   4.   Height regulations. There are no height regulations in the I District.
   5.   Area regulations. The minimum regulations that shall be observed in the
I District are set out in Table 165.15.
 
TABLE 165.15
I (Industrial) District Area Regulations
          Lot Area (in Lot Width (in Front Yard   Side Yard    Rear Yard
Use       feet)        feet)         Required (in Required (in Required (in
                                     feet)        feet)        feet)
All Uses  20,000       150           25           10           251
Accessory ------       ------        25           10           10
Buildings
1For every additional foot the front yard depth is increased over 25 feet,
the rear yard may be decreased in direct proportion thereto, but, in no
case shall the rear yard be less than eight feet; and, in addition, if any
portion of this rear yard is used for an enclosed off-street loading space,
the area above such an enclosure may be used for building purposes.
 
165.16   MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   [See
Chapter 146 of this Code of Ordinances.]  
165.17   SOLAR COLLECTOR SYSTEMS.
   1.   Exceptions to Yard and Density Requirements – General Requirements. The
exceptions to yard requirements and density requirements set out in this
chapter are allowed for the placement of solar collectors in all districts, and
solar collector systems shall be considered a permitted accessory use in all
districts.
   2.   Front Yard. No exceptions shall be allowed into any front yard unless
the collector is attached to the dwelling and does not intersect with the
ground.
   3.   Rear Yard. A collector may extend 10 feet into any rear yard; provided
that a minimum of 10 feet rear yard is still provided in residential areas. In
all other districts, the collector may extend a total of 50 percent into the
existing rear yard.
   4.   Side Yard. A solar collector may extent into either side a total of 40
percent of the required yard; however, this is not to exceed a maximum of four
feet in residential areas and shall not extend into any easement. In all other
districts, the collectors may extend a total of 50 percent into the existing
side yard.
   5.   Lot Coverage. The solar collector is included in determining lot
coverage. In existing residential developments, lot coverage shall not be
interpreted as to prevent the placement of a 40 square foot collector in any
required rear yard; provided, that the other yard requirements are met.
   6.   Height Requirements. Solar collectors may be placed 10 feet above the
height requirement of their district when attached to the principal use on the
lot.
   7.   Easement Encroachment Prohibited. No portion of any solar collector
system shall extend into any easement regardless of the above-stated exceptions
to yard requirements.
165.18   ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   1.   Zoning Commission Rules of Procedure. The City Planning and Zoning
Commission, a public body, is subject to the terms, regulations, and
restrictions of the Iowa Open Meeting Law, Chapter 28A of the Code of Iowa, as
amended. Wherever in this Code of Ordinances a conflict appears between the
ordinance and Open Meeting Law, the Open Meeting Law shall control.
   2.   Creation. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the City, as
established under the applicable provisions of the Code of Iowa, is the
Planning and Zoning Commission referred to in this chapter.
   3.   Membership. Said Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of five
members, citizens of the City, and who shall not hold any elective office in
the municipal government, shall be appointed by the Mayor (subject to the
approval of the City Council.) Members shall serve for a period of five years,
with one appointment expiring each year. Vacancies shall be filled by
appointments for unexpired terms only. Any reduction in present Commission
membership shall be by attrition only and present members may continue to be
reappointed.
   4.   Zoning Permit-Required. Zoning permits shall be required in accordance
with the following, except that no permit shall be required for agricultural
uses:
      A.   No land shall be occupied or used, and no building erected or
structurally altered shall be occupied or used in whole or in part for any
purpose until a permit is issued by the Zoning Administrative Officer, stating
that the building and use comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      B.   No change of use shall be made in any building or part thereof, now
or hereafter erected or structurally altered, unless such changes are in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter and a permit is issued by the
Zoning Administrative Officer.
      C.   Nothing in this section shall prevent the continuance of a
nonconforming use as hereinbefore authorized, unless a discontinuance is
necessary for the safety of life or property.
      D.   In accordance with this section, zoning permits shall be obtained
from the Zoning Administrative Officer before starting or proceeding with the
erection, construction, moving in, or the structural alteration of a building
or structure. Zoning permits shall be issued to complying applicants within
seven days after application is made, and appropriate records and copies of
permits shall be maintained as a matter of public record;
      E.   A zoning permit shall become null and void six months after the date
on which it is issued unless within such six-month period construction,
building, moving, remodeling, or reconstruction of a structure is commenced or
a use is commenced.
   5.   Zoning Permit – Application Procedure. Applicants for a zoning permit
shall be required to provide the following:
      A.   A plat, in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions
of the lot to be built upon or used, the size, shape, and location of the
building to be erected, the dimensions of the required yards, parking, and open
spaces, and a vicinity map of the lot to be built upon or used.
      B.   Proof of compliance with standards for water supply and sewage
disposal which conform with the regulations of the City.
      C.   Such other information as may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of this chapter.
      D.   Fees as required by the City.
   6.   Administrative Officer Appointment, Duties, and Compensation. The City
Council shall appoint an administrative officer, and it shall be the duty of
such officer to enforce this chapter. Such administrative officer may be a
person holding other public office in the City or other governmental
subdivision. The City Council is authorized to pay to the officer out of the
general fund such compensation as it deems fit.
   7.   Violation – Notice. If the Zoning Administrator finds that any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated, the Administrator shall notify
in writing the person responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of
the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it.
   8.   Violation – Abatement Procedures. In case any building or structure is
erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or
maintained, or any building, structure, or land is used in violation of this
chapter, the City Council, in addition to other remedies, shall institute any
proper action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use, to
restrain, correct, or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of such
building, structure, or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business,
or use in or about such premises.
165.19   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   1.   Appointment; Membership. A Board of Adjustment is hereby established,
which shall consist of five members, each to be appointed by the Mayor, and
subject to confirmation by the City Council, for a term of five years. None of
which shall hold an elective office or be another City Official. No member
shall serve more than two consecutive terms. Members shall be removable for
cause by the appointing authority upon written charges and after public
hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose
term becomes vacant.
   2.   Rules; Meetings; General Procedure. The Board shall adopt rules in
accordance with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance. Meetings of the Board
shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the
Board may determine. Such Chairperson or, in the absence of the Chairperson,
the acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board
shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon
each question or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
be immediately filed in the office the City Clerk and shall be a public record.
The City Clerk shall serve as Secretary of the Board. In the absence of the
Secretary, the Chairperson of the Board may appoint one of the members of the
Board to act as Secretary Pro Tem for the meeting. The Board shall have the
power to call on any City department for assistance in the performance of its
duties, and it shall be the duty of such department to render such assistance
as may reasonably be required. The Board shall also receive and consider
recommendations submitted by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   3.   Jurisdiction; Powers. The Board shall have the following powers and
duties.
      A.   The Board of Adjustment may in appropriate cases and subject to
appropriate conditions and safeguards make special exceptions to the terms of
the ordinances in harmony with its general purpose and intent. Any property
owner aggrieved by the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance or any regulations
or restrictions thereunder may petition the said Board of Adjustment direct to
modify said regulations and restrictions as applied to such property owner and
the following rules shall apply:
         (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall have a public hearing on said
petition under the same terms and conditions as hereinafter provided for the
hearing of the appeals by the Board of Adjustment.
         (2)   The Board of Adjustment, in making any exception to the Zoning
Ordinance, shall be guided by the general rule that the exceptions shall by
their design, construction, and operation adequately safeguard the health,
safety, and welfare of the occupants of adjoining and surrounding property,
shall not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property,
shall not increase congestion in the public streets, shall not increase public
danger of fire and safety and shall not diminish or impair established property
values in surrounding areas.
         (3)   The Board of Adjustment is specifically authorized to permit
erection and use of a building or the use of premises or vary the height and
area regulations in any location for a public service corporation for public
utility purposes or for purposes of public communication, including the
distribution of newspapers, which the Board determines reasonably necessary for
public convenience or welfare.
         (4)   The Board of Adjustment is specifically authorized to permit the
extension of a district where the boundary line of a district divides a lot in
a single ownership as shown of record or by existing contract or purchase at
the time of the passage of this Zoning Ordinance, but in no case shall
extension of the district boundary line exceed 40 feet in any direction.
      B.   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide appeals where it
is alleged there is an error in any order, requirements, decision, or
determination made by the Building Official in the enforcement of this Zoning
Ordinance.
      C.   The Board shall have the power to authorize upon appeal in specific
cases such variance from the terms of the Zoning Ordinance as will not be
contrary to the public interest, where owing to special conditions a literal
enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance will result in unnecessary
hardship, and so that the spirit of the ordinance shall be observed and
substantial justice done. Special conditions shall include but not be limited
to a property owner who can show that his or her property was acquired in good
faith and where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of a
specific piece of property, or where by reason of exceptional topographical
conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional situations the strict
application of the terms of this ordinance actually prohibits the use of such
property in a manner reasonably similar to that of other property in the
district. Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit the extension or
expansion of a nonconforming use located in an R or U District.
   4.   Appeals. Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or
by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the City affected by any
decision of the Building Official. Such appeal shall be taken within a
reasonable time as provided by the rules of the Board by filing with the
Building Official and with the Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. The Building Official shall forthwith transmit
to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from is taken, and shall further transmit a copy of the notice of
appeal and the record to the Planning and Zoning Commission. Upon receipt of
the notice of appeal, the Board shall hold a public hearing on said appeal and
shall publish notice of said hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in
the City. Said notice shall specify the time, place, and purpose of said public
hearing and said public hearing shall not be less than two days or more than 10
days after the publication of said notice. The Board shall also give prompt
notice of such hearing to the Building Inspector and the Planning and Zoning
Commission. The final disposition of any appeal after public hearing shall be
in the form of a resolution by the Board and copy of such resolution shall be
filed with the Building Inspector, the Planning and Zoning Commission, and the
City Clerk. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Building Official certifies to the Board, after
notice of appeal shall have been filed with said official, that by reason of
the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in the official’s opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board
or by a court of record on application, on notice to the Building Official, and
on due cause shown. The Board of Adjustment shall give a reasonable time for
the hearing on the appeal, give public notice thereof and decide the same
within a reasonable time. At the hearing any party may appear in person or by
agent, or by attorney. Before an appeal is filed with the Board of Adjustment,
the appellant shall pay to the City Treasurer, to be credited to the General
Fund of the City, the cost of publishing said notice and the administrative
cost of said appeal as determined by the Board. In exercising the above-
mentioned powers, the Board may, in conformity with the provisions of law,
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination as it believes proper, and to that end shall have
all the powers of the Building Official. The concurring vote of three of the
members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination of the Building Official, or to decide in favor of
the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
ordinance; provided, however, the action of the Board shall not become
effective until after the resolution of the Board, setting forth the full
reason for its decision and the vote of each member participating therein, has
been spread upon the minutes. Such resolution, immediately following the
Board’s final decision, shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk, and
shall be open to public inspection.
   5.   Review by Council. The Council may provide for its review of variances
granted by the Board of Adjustment before their effective date. The Council may
remand a decision to grant a variance to the Board of Adjustment for further
study. The effective date of the variance is delayed for 30 days from the date
of the remand.
165.20   VIOLATION – PENALTY.
   For each and every violation of the provisions of this chapter, the owner,
contractor, or other persons interested as general agent, architect, engineer,
land surveyor, building contractor, owner, tenant, or any other persons who
commit, take part, or assist in any violation of this chapter or who maintain
any building or premises or uses of any land in violation of this chapter,
shall, for each and every violation, be imprisoned for a period not exceeding
30 days, or be fined not exceeding $100.00, or both, at the discretion of the
judicial officer before whom such a conviction may be heard. Whenever such
person has been officially notified by the Zoning Officer or by service of a
summons in a prosecution, or in any other official manner, that he is
committing a violation, each day’s continuance of such violation after such
notification shall constitute a separate offense, punishable by a like fine or
penalty.
165.21   AMENDMENTS.
   1.   Council Authority – Public Notice and Hearings. The City Council may,
from time to time, on its own action or on petition, after public notice and
hearings as provided by law, and after report by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, amend, supplement, or change the boundaries or regulations in this
chapter or subsequently established, and such amendment shall not become
effective except by the favorable vote of a majority of all the members of the
City Council.
   2.   Petitions – Public Notification and Hearing. Prior to, and in addition
to, the requirements set out in Subsection 1 of this section, whenever any
person, firm, or corporation desires that any amendment or change be made in
this chapter, including the text and/or map, as to any property in the City,
there shall be presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission a petition
requesting such change or amendment. Such petition shall be duly signed by the
owners of at least 50 percent of the area of all the real estate included
within the boundaries of such tract as described in such petition. The petition
shall contain a legal description of the area for which rezoning is requested,
the existing zoning classification, and the requested zoning classification.
Within 30 days after the filing of such petition, the Planning and Zoning
Commission, acting as a Commission through its chairman or other authorized
agent, shall fix a time, date, and place of hearing on such petition, which
date shall be no more than 60 days after the filing of such petition. The
Planning and Zoning Commission shall cause notice of the hearing to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the City at least 15
days before the date fixed for such hearing. Such notice shall contain the
time, date, and place of the hearing, the existing zone classification, the
requested zone classification, and the name of the petition or petitioners.
Additionally, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall cause such notice to be
delivered in writing to the property owners of land lying within the tract to
be rezoned and within 200 feet of the boundaries of such tract described in the
petition.
   3.   Petitions – Filing Fee. Before any action shall be taken as provided in
this chapter, the petitioner or petitioners seeking the change in districts or
regulations shall remit a filing fee of $100.00 to cover the costs of the
procedure. Under no circumstances shall such sum or any part thereof be
refunded for failure of such amendment to be enacted into law.
   4.   Recommendations to City Council. The Planning and Zoning Commission,
after public hearing, shall advise the City Council on their recommendations
and their vote thereon. The Planning and Zoning Commission may upon unanimous
approval of members present at a regular meeting suspend the above hearing
requirement and act upon a petition for rezoning or initiate a zoning change or
amendment, forwarding their recommendations to the City Council for action as
required by law.
   5.   Conditions For Approval by City Council. In case the proposed
amendment, supplement, or change be disapproved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, or a protest is presented duly signed by the owners of 20 percent
or more of the area included in such proposed change, or, by the owners of 20
percent or more of the property lying within 200 feet of the boundaries
thereof, such amendment shall not become effective except by the favorable vote
of at least 75 percent of all the members of the City Council.
   6.   Resubmission of Petition – Time Limitations. Whenever any petitions for
an amendment, supplement, or change of the zoning districts or regulations
herein contained or subsequently established shall have been denied by the City
Council, then no new petition covering the same property, or the same property
and additional property, shall be filed with or considered by the City Council
until six months have elapsed from the date of filing the first petition.
CHAPTER 166
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
166.01 General Provisions                166.07 Minor Subdivisions
166.02 Definitions                       166.08 Establishment of Places
166.03 Subdivision Design Standards      166.09 Building Permits and Occupancy
                                         Permits
166.04 Preliminary Plat Requirements and 166.10 Vacation of Plats, Streets, and
Procedures (Major Subdivision)           Other Public Lands
166.05 Final Plat Requirements and       166.11 Fees
Procedures
(Major Subdivision)                      166.12 Variations and Exceptions
166.06 Stamp or Signature Block Required 166.13 Enforcement and Penalty
                                        166.14 Changes and Amendments
 
166.01   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Title. The following chapter shall be known as the “Elk Run Heights,
Iowa Subdivision Ordinance. Ordinance Number 178, codified in this chapter, is
an ordinance creating subdivision regulations for the purpose of protecting
public health, welfare, and safety within the incorporated areas of the City.
   2.   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide procedures and
guidance for the review and consideration of subdivisions, resubdivision, or
dedications in the incorporated areas of the City, as well as a formal review
procedure for subdivisions proposed in the unincorporated area in the two mile
area around the corporate limits of the City; implementing the Comprehensive
Plan; prescribing minimum standards for the design, layout, and development
thereof; providing for the preliminary and final approval or disapproval
thereof; providing for the enforcement and penalties for the violation thereof;
all for the purpose of promoting adequacy, safety, and efficiency of the street
and road system; and for the purpose of improving the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens; and repealing all other ordinances or
resolutions in conflict herewith. This chapter is permitted and specifically
authorized in Chapter 354 (Platting - Division and Subdivision of Land) of the
Code of Iowa, as amended.
   3.   Application. This chapter shall apply to all plats, replats, and
divisions of land into parcels lying in the incorporated area of the City, as
well as the subdivision of land within two miles of the City’s corporate
boundaries. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the division of any
lot or parcel of land entered of record in the office of the County Recorder as
a single lot or parcel after the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter.
   4.   Plats Within Two Miles of the City. In accordance with the provisions
of Section 354.9 of the 2022 Code of Iowa, as amended, a proprietor or other
agent shall file a copy of all preliminary and final subdivision plats,
including minor plats, for the unincorporated area within two miles of the
City. The City may review and comment on the proposed subdivision. The City may
either approve, disapprove, or waive their right to review all plats within the
extraterritorial area defined herein. The plats shall be filed with the City
prior to, or at the same time as, filing with the County. Approval by one
political entity does not automatically constitute approval by the others,
unless the political entities have so agreed.
   5.   Subdivision Classification. Any proposed subdivision or resubdivision
shall be classified as a minor subdivision or a major subdivision by the Zoning
Administrator. To aid in this, the proprietor shall submit in written or other
appropriate documentation the principle features of access, relationship and
location of existing roads, proposed water and sanitary sewer systems, public
utilities and improvements, the number and location of the proposed lots, and
other pertinent data or information. Any subdivision may be classified as a
major subdivision at the proprietor’s request.
   6.   Zoning. Any property proposed for subdivision shall be correctly zoned
to accommodate the proposed uses before the subdivision process is begun.
   7.   Review by Agencies. All plats shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator for review prior to recording. The Zoning Administrator shall
refer one copy of each to the City Engineer, Building Inspector, and Planning
and Zoning Commission. Each of the aforementioned offices shall examine the
plat as to its compliance with the Zoning Ordinance and regulations of the
City, as well as the County and the State of Iowa, and submit their findings to
the Zoning Administrator as soon as is possible but within 10 days of receipt
of the copy.
166.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and terms are defined. The
following terms are intended to be consistent with Chapter 354 of the Code of
Iowa, as amended, and any changes to the Code of Iowa shall automatically be
assumed to be part of this chapter. Words used in the present tense shall
include the future, the singular number shall include the plural and the plural
the singular; the word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is permissive.
   1.   “Acquisition plat” means the graphical representation of the division
of land or rights in land, created as a result of a conveyance or condemnation
for right-of-way purposes by an agency of the government or other persons
having the power of eminent domain..
   2.   “Alley” or “lane” means a public or private way not more than 20 feet
wide, affording generally secondary means of access to abutting property and
not intended for general traffic circulation.
   3.   “Auditor’s plat” means a subdivision plat required by either the County
Auditor or the County Assessor, prepared by a surveyor under the direction of
the County Auditor.
   4.   “Block” means an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely
bounded by streets, highways, or the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, except alleys.
   5.   Building Line. Building lines shall be shown on all lots, whether
intended for residential, commercial, or industrial use. Such building lines
shall not be less than required by the Zoning Ordinance of the City.
   6.   “Design standards” means the current version of the Iowa Statewide
Urban Design and Specifications (SUDAS), which shall apply to all construction
in the City.
   7.   “Division” means dividing a tract or parcel of land into two parcels of
land by conveyance or for tax purposes. The conveyance of an easement, other
than a public highway easement, shall not be considered a division for the
purposes of this chapter.
   8.   “Easement” means a grant, by the proprietor, for a specific purpose of
a strip of land by the general public, a corporation, or a certain person or
persons, and within the limits of which the proprietor shall not erect any
permanent structures but shall have the right to make any other use of the land
subject to such easements which is not inconsistent with the rights of the
grantee. Public utilities shall have the right to trim or remove trees which
interfere with the use of such easements.
   9.   “Engineer” means a licensed civil engineer authorized and licensed to
practice engineering in the State of Iowa.
   10.   “Final plat” means the final map or plan of record of a subdivision
and any accompanying material; as described in Section 166.03 of this chapter.
   11.   “Improvements” means addition of any facility or construction on land
necessary to prepare land or building sites including road paving,
drainageways, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, water mains, and other works and
appurtenances.
   12.   Lot. For the purpose of this chapter, a “lot” is a parcel of land of
sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area
to provide such yards and other open space as are herein required. Said lot
shall have frontage on, or access to, a public street or private street and may
consist of: (i) a single lot of record; (ii) a portion of a lot of record;
(iii) a combination of complete lots of record, or complete lots of record and
portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record; or (iv) a parcel
of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in no case of division or
combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter or any ordinance of the City.
   13.   “Major subdivision” means all subdivisions not classified as minor
subdivisions, including, but not limited to, any size subdivision requiring any
new public or private street, extension of local government facilities, or the
creation of any public improvements.
   14.   “Minor subdivision” means any subdivision that creates not more than
three parcels fronting an existing road, not involving any new road or street,
or the extension of municipal facilities, or the creation of any public
improvements, or the dedication of lands to the City, and not adversely
affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property, and not in
conflict with any provision of the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Ordinance, or
this chapter may be classified as a minor subdivision and must meet the
appropriate provisions of this chapter.
   15.   “Official plat” means either an auditor’s plat or a major or minor
subdivision plat that meets the requirements of the Code of Iowa and has been
filed for record in the offices of the County Recorder, County Auditor, and
County Assessor.
   16.   “Outlot” means a portion of a subdivision or other parcel or tract
intended as a unit for the proposed, whether immediate or future, transfer of
ownership. An outlot shall be an unbuildable lot, in and of itself. Typically a
proprietor may use an outlot for the following reasons: (i) to reserve a
portion of a final plat for future development or sale; (ii) to reserve a
portion of a final plat for construction of and future dedication of a
detention basin to the City or private association; or (iii) for construction
of a private street or access that will be owned and maintained by a private
association.
   17.   “Permanent real estate index number” means a unique number or
combination of numbers assigned to a parcel of land pursuant to Section 441.29
of the Code of Iowa.
   18.   “Plat of survey” means the geographical representation of a survey of
one or more parcels of land, including a complete and accurate description of
each parcel within the plat, prepared by a licensed land surveyor.
   19.   “Preliminary plat” means the proposed map or plan of record of a
subdivision and any accompanying material, as described in Section 166.04 of
this chapter.
   20.   “Proprietor” means a person who has a recorded interest in land,
including a person selling or buying land pursuant to a contract, but excluding
persons holding a mortgage, easement, or lien interest. This definition shall
also include a person or persons designated to act on behalf of a proprietor.
   21.   “Resubdivision” means a change on a map of an approved or recorded
subdivision plat if such change affects any street layout on such map or area
reserved thereon for public use or at any lot line, or if such a change affects
any map or plan legally recorded prior to the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter.
   22.   “Right-of-way” means the land area the right to possession of which is
secured or reserved by the contracting authority for road purposes.
   23.   “Street, road, drive, alleys or entrance (private)” means all property
intended for use by vehicular traffic, but not dedicated to the public, nor
controlled and maintained by a political subdivision.
   24.   “Street, road, alleys, drive or entrance (public)” means all property
intended for use by vehicular traffic which has been dedicated to the public or
deeded to a political subdivision.
   25.   “Subdivision” means any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or
proposed to be divided into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or
interests for the purpose of sale, including a sale on contract or the making
of a gift, or lease, or development, including resubdivision. “Subdivision”
includes the division or development of residential or nonresidential zoned
land, whether by deed, sale on contract, devise, interstate succession, lease,
map, plat, or other recorded instrument.
   26.   “Surveyor” means a licensed land surveyor authorized and licensed to
practice surveying in the State of Iowa, pursuant to Chapters 355 and 542B of
the Code of Iowa.
166.03   SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   1.   Intent of Section. The standards and details of design herein contained
are intended only as the minimum requirements so that the general arrangement
and layout of a subdivision may be adjusted to a wide variety of circumstances.
However, in the design and development of the plat, the proprietor should use
standards consistent with the site conditions so as to assure an economical,
pleasant, and desirable neighborhood, and shall conform with design standards
as approved by the City Council.
   2.   General Requirements.
      A.   Land Suitability. No land shall be subdivided for residential
purposes that is found to be unsuitable for subdividing by reason of flooding,
ponding, poor drainage, adverse soil conditions, adverse geological formations,
unsatisfactory topography, or other features likely to be harmful to the
health, safety, or general welfare, unless such suitable conditions are
corrected to the satisfaction of the City.
         (1)   If a subdivision is found to be unsuitable for any of the
reasons cited in this section, the Planning and Zoning Commission or City
Council shall state its reasons in writing and afford the proprietor an
opportunity to present data regarding such unsuitability. Thereafter, the
Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council may re-affirm, modify, or
withdraw its determination of unsuitability.
         (2)   Flood Land. All lots located within a floodplain shall contain
adequate area above the elevation of flooding for essential and planned
installations. All land in a subdivision that lies in a floodplain shall be:
            a.   Shown on the individual lots in the preliminary plat; and
            b.   Encouraged to remain as open space for use by all proprietors
of lots in the subdivision with an appropriate instrument providing for its
care by such proprietors.
         (3)   Subdivisions (including mobile home parks) shall be consistent
with the need to minimize flood damages and shall have adequate drainage
provided to reduce exposure to flood damage. Development associated with
subdivision proposals shall meet the applicable performance standards.
      B.   Streets.
         (1)   Private Streets. Private streets, not dedicated to and accepted
by the City, proposed after the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter, are discouraged. If existing private streets are utilized, they
shall be built to public standards, and they shall be platted as such and be
under the control of the subdivision, homeowners association, and/or
proprietor.
         (2)   Continuation of Existing Streets. Proposed streets shall provide
for continuation or completion of any existing streets (constructed or
recorded) in adjoining property, at equal or greater width, but not less than a
60-foot right-of-way width, and in similar alignment, unless variations are
recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by the City
Council.
         (3)   Circulation. The street pattern shall provide ease of
circulation within the subdivision as well as convenient access to adjoining
streets, thoroughfares, or unsubdivided land as may be required by the City
Council. In a case where a street will eventually be extended beyond the plan,
but is temporarily dead-ended, an interim turn-a-round shall be required.
         (4)   Street Intersection. Street intersections shall be as near to
right angles (90 degrees) as possible. There shall be a minimum of 150 feet
between centerlines of intersecting streets.
         (5)   Cul-de-sac. If a cul-de-sac is permitted, such street shall be
no longer than 660 feet and shall be provided at the closed end with a turn-a-
round having a street property line diameter of at least 100 feet in the case
of residential subdivisions. The right-of-way width of the street leading to
the turn-a-round shall be a minimum of 60 feet. The property line at the
intersection of the turn-a-round into the lead-in portion of the street shall
be rounded at the radius of not less than 30 feet. A paved cul-de-sac with
concrete curb and gutter shall have a minimum paved diameter of 71 feet
measured from the back of the curb to back of curb.
         (6)   Street Names. All newly platted streets shall be named in a
manner consistent with the present street name system. A proposed street that
is obviously in alignment with other existing streets, or with a street that
may be logically extended through the various portions, shall bear the same
name. New street names shall be subject to the recommendation of the Planning
and Zoning Commission and approval by the City Council so as to avoid
duplication or similarity of names.
         (7)   Physical and Cultural Features. In general, streets shall be
platted with appropriate regard for topography, creeks, wooded area, and other
natural features which should lend themselves to attractive treatment.
         (8)   Half-Streets. Dedication of half-streets will be prohibited
unless there exists a dedicated or platted half-street or alley adjacent to the
tract to be subdivided, the other half shall be platted if recommended by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by the City Council.
         (9)   Alleys. Alleys may be required in business areas and industrial
districts for adequate access to block interiors and for off-street loading and
parking purposes. Except where justified by unusual conditions, alleys will not
be approved in residential districts. Dead-end alleys shall be provided with a
means of turning around at the dead-end thereof.
         (10)   Easements.
            a.   Permanent structures, excluding landscaping and fencing, are
not allowed to be constructed on an easement.
            b.   Easements for utilities, when necessary, shall be provided
along rear or side lot lines or along alleys. The width of such easement shall
be not less than 10 feet in total width. In the event that there exists an
easement in an adjacent subdivision, the 10-foot requirement may be reduced to
five feet to allow for a minimum of 10 feet total easement.
            c.   Whenever subdivision is traversed by a water course, channel,
drainageway, stream, sanitary sewer, or stormwater drainage structure, a
stormwater easement or drainage easement may be required. The width of such
easement shall be adequate for the anticipated drainage but not less than 20
feet and shall be shown on the plat.
            d.   Any lot that has no frontage upon a public or private street
shall be provided with an easement for access to a public or private street.
The width of such easement shall not be less than 20 feet.
            e.   Easements to the City for street purposes shall not be
allowed.
         (11)   Neighborhood Plan. If any overall plan has been approved by the
City for the neighborhood in which the proposed subdivision is located, the
street system of the latter shall conform in general thereto.
         (12)   Unsubdivided Portion of Plat. Where the plat to be submitted
includes only part of the tract owned by the proprietor, the Planning and
Zoning Commission may require a sketch of the prospective future system of the
unsubmitted part. The street system of the part submitted shall be correlated
with the street system of the part not submitted.
         (13)   Major Thoroughfares. Where a new subdivision, except where
justified by limiting conditions, involves frontage on a heavy traffic way,
limited accessway, freeway, or parkway, the street layout shall provide motor
access to such frontage by one of the following means:
            a.   Be so arranged as to permit, where necessary, future grade
separations at highway crossings.
            b.   Border the highway with a parallel street at a sufficient
distance from it to permit deep lots to go back onto the highway; or form a
buffer strip for park, commercial, or industrial use.
         (14)   Street Right-of-Way Width. The width of minor or residential
street right-of-way shall not be less than 60 feet.
         (15)   Street Alignments. Streets and alleys shall be completed to
grades which have been officially determined or approved by the City Council.
All streets shall be graded to within two feet of the right-of-way and adjacent
sides slopes graded to blend with the natural ground level. The maximum grade
shall not exceed seven percent for main and secondary thoroughfares, or eight
percent for minor or local service streets. A minimum centerline radius of 150
feet shall be required of all streets. All street alignments, both horizontally
and vertically, shall meet design criteria as specified in the current American
Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) Policy on
Geometric Design of Highways and Streets.
   3.   Blocks.
      A.   No block shall be longer than 660 feet.
      B.   At street intersections, block corners shall be rounded with a
radius of not less than 25 feet. However, where a curve radius has been
previously established, such radius shall be used as standard if greater than
25 feet.
   4.   Lots.
      A.   Corner lots shall have a minimum width that will permit required
building setbacks on both front and side streets.
      B.   Double frontage lots, other than corner lots, shall be prohibited
except where such lots back onto a major street or highway.
      C.   Minimum lot sizes and dimensions, as defined in the Zoning
Ordinance, shall be met.
      D.    Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles (90 degrees)
to the street or radial to curved streets. On large size lots and except when
indicated by topography, lot lines shall be straight.
      E.   All out-lots shall be noted as unbuildable on plats.
   5.   Improvements.
      A.   Streets and Roads. In addition to Section 166.03(2)(B) of this
chapter, all streets or roads intended to be dedicated to public use and
accepted into the City street system shall meet the following criteria:
         (1)   All streets shall be built to grade and standard cross-section
according to the plans approved by the City Engineer and City Council prior to
construction. An urban type cross-section shall be used. (See Figure: Typical
Urban Road Cross-Section at the end of this section.) Both plan and profile
view details shall be drawn on 24 inch by 36 inch sheets to a scale of one inch
equals 50 feet horizontal and one inch equals five feet vertical. If feasible,
11 inch by 17 inch plans drawn to a scale of one inch equals 60 feet horizontal
and one inch equals 10 feet vertical shall be acceptable.
         (2)   All streets shall be paved and have Portland cement concrete
(PCC) curb and gutter. The minimum width of a residential street shall be 26
feet measured from the back of curb to back of curb, and the minimum width of a
commercial street shall be 31 feet measured from the back of curb to back of
curb. (See Figure: Typical Urban Road Cross-Section at the end of this
section.)
         (3)   All streets shall be paved with one of the following in
accordance with specifications approved by the City Council and City Engineer:
            a.   Portland cement concrete (PCC) paving with a minimum seven
inch thickness with a two percent crown measured from the centerline of the
street to the gutter. The sub-base course shall be four inches of granular
material.
            b.   Asphalt cement concrete (ACC) paving with a minimum eight inch
thickness, as follows, with a two percent crown measured from the centerline of
the street to the gutter. The sub-base course shall be six inches of soil
aggregate subbase.
         (4)   All construction and materials shall conform to the current Iowa
Department of Transportation standard specifications and special provisions.
         (5)   48-hour advance notice of construction is required.
         (6)   All designs, specifications, material, inspection results, and
procedures shall be certified to the City Engineer by a licensed engineer. All
roads to be dedicated to the City shall be inspected by the City, with the cost
of said inspection being reimbursed to the City.
      B.   Utility Service Systems.
         (1)   Public sanitary sewers and water systems shall be installed
within the street or right-of-way or established easements as required by the
State and local ordinances.
         (2)   Gas mains shall be installed within the street right-of-way or
an established easement.
         (3)   Electric and telephone lines shall be installed within the
street right-of-way or established easements.
         (4)   All subdivisions, and their lots, that are located within the
incorporated boundaries of the City shall be required to connect to municipal
utilities.
         (5)   All utility service systems shall be subject to approval by the
City Engineer and City Council.
      C.   Storm Drainage.
         (1)   Adequate storm sewers and inlets shall be provided where
necessary. All stormwater intakes shall be capable of handling a five-year
storm, and the pipe shall be capable of handling a 10-year storm. In addition,
the subdivision shall have 100-year overland conveyance capacity.
         (2)   Natural waterways shall be maintained and protected.
         (3)   All stormwater facilities shall be subject to approval by the
City Engineer and City Council.
         (4)   If the development covers an area of five or more acres, the
applicant must have the necessary Iowa Department of Natural Resources permits.
      D.   Utility Locations. The proposed location, alignment, and sizes of
all existing public utilities shall be shown on the preliminary plat. All
utilities shall be located underground. Approval of the preliminary plat will
form the basis of final designs of all improvements. All underground utilities
that will be located within the street right-of-way shall be constructed, and
service provided to each lot, before acceptance of the improvements by the
City.
      E.   Signs and Traffic Control Devices. To insure uniformity with the
City’s street signage system, all street name signs and traffic control signs
shall be erected in conformance with the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices (MUTCD) and the County E-911 requirements. The proprietor will be
responsible for all costs associated with sign erection. Maintenance of all
signs will remain the responsibility of the proprietor until, or unless, the
streets or roads are accepted into the City street system.
      F.   Mailboxes, Including Newspaper Boxes. Mailboxes and mailbox
construction shall conform to United States Postal Service standards.
      G.   Parking. The depth and width of properties reserved and designed for
residential, commercial, or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide
for the off-street parking and loading facilities required for the type of use
and development contemplated, as established in the Zoning Ordinance.
      H.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be required in all subdivisions, per
Figure: Typical Urban Road Cross-Section.
166.04   PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES (MAJOR SUBDIVISION).
   1.   Pre-Preliminary Plat. Each proprietor of land is encouraged to confer
with the Zoning Administrator before preparing the preliminary plat in order to
become familiar with City regulations affecting the territory in which the
proposed subdivision lies. A pre-preliminary plat may be presented at that
time.
   2.   Number of Copies. Whenever the proprietor of any tract or parcel of
land within the incorporated area of the City wishes to subdivide or plat the
same, the proprietor shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat of said
subdivision, and shall submit 10 copies of said preliminary plat, and
supportive information, to the Zoning Administrator for preliminary study and
approval. The preliminary plat shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator a
minimum of 21 days prior to City Council consideration.
   3.   Referral of Preliminary Plat. The Zoning Administrator shall refer one
copy each to the City Engineer, Building Inspector, and Planning and Zoning
Commission. Each of the aforementioned offices shall examine the plat as to its
compliance with the laws and regulations of the City, and submit their findings
to the Zoning Administrator as soon as possible, but within 30 days.
   4.   Contents of Preliminary Plat. Preliminary plats shall contain, include,
or show the following requirements:
      A.   Name of subdivision, date, an arrow indicating the northern
direction, and the legal description of the property being platted.
      B.   Plats shall be drawn in sheets not larger than 24 inches by 36
inches. The scale of the plat, preferably one inch equals 100 feet, shall be
clearly stated and graphically illustrated by a bar scale on every plat sheet.
Larger subdivisions that require more than one sheet shall show match lines and
references.
      C.   Name and address of the proprietor, if different than the owner.
      D.   Name and address of proprietor’s engineer or surveyor.
      E.   Existing buildings, railroads, utilities, and other rights-of-way.
      F.   Location, names, and widths of all existing and proposed roads,
alleys, streets, and highways in or adjoining the area being subdivided.
      G.   Location and names of adjoining subdivisions as well as a list of
proprietors within 200 feet of the property to be subdivided.
      H.   Proposed lot lines with approximate dimensions and the square foot
area of each lot.
      I.   Areas dedicated for public use, such as schools, parks, and
playgrounds.
      J.   Contour lines shown at intervals of two feet.
      K.   Building setback lines.
      L.   Boundaries of the proposed subdivision shall be indicated by a heavy
black line.
      M.   Existing zoning of the proposed subdivision, as well as the existing
zoning of the adjoining property or properties.
      N.   Proposed utility service.
         (1)   Source of water supply.
         (2)   Provision for sewage disposal, stormwater drainage, and flood
control, if applicable.
      O.   A vicinity sketch, at a legible scale, showing the relationship of
the plat to its general surroundings.
      P.   Lots shall be numbered in a way that is acceptable to the County
Auditor’s office.
      Q.   Existing and proposed easements showing widths and purposes of said
easements.
      R.   If applicable, the regulatory flood elevation data limits of the
100-year (base) floodplain boundaries, original and revised, must be shown.
      S.   Environmental studies may be required if a proposed subdivision is
located in, or near, an environmentally sensitive area.
   5.   Review by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      A.   Upon receipt of the report of the various offices referred to in
Subsection 3 of this section, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall review
said plat, consider said reports, negotiate with the proprietor on changes
deemed advisable and the kind and extent of improvements to be made, and take
action upon the preliminary plat as originally submitted or modified. If a
subdivision is not recommended for approval, the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall give written reasons therefor. A preliminary plat may require more than
one Planning and Zoning Commission review.
      B.   Before approving a preliminary plat, the Planning and Zoning
Commission may, at its discretion, hold a public hearing, notice of which shall
be given by publication in a local newspaper at least seven, but not more than
20 days before said public hearing.
      C.   If a public hearing is scheduled, as a courtesy, proprietors within
200 feet may be notified of said public hearing.
   6.   Review by the City Council.
      A.   The City Council shall then take action upon the preliminary plat
not more than 60 days after the initial receipt by the Zoning Administrator.
The Council may certify its approval or disapproval. If the preliminary plat is
disapproved by the Council, such disapproval shall state in writing how the
proposed plat is objectionable. The applicant has the right to appeal to
district court, within 20 days, the failure of the Council to issue approval of
the preliminary plat as provided in this chapter. If approved, the preliminary
plat shall be certified by resolution.
      B.   The approval of the preliminary plat by the City Council does not
constitute acceptance of the subdivision, but shall authorize the proprietor to
proceed with the preparation of the final plat.
      C.   The approval of a preliminary plat by the City Council shall be
valid for a period of one year from the date of such approval, except upon
application for, and approval of, an extension of such period of validity, by
the City Council. After one or more lots have been final platted, the
preliminary plat is valid until such time that it is superseded by another
preliminary plat.
166.05   FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES (MAJOR SUBDIVISION).
   1.   Number of Copies. Within one year of approval of the preliminary plat,
or extension thereto, by the City Council, the proprietor shall submit 10
copies of the final plat for review by the Zoning Administrator. Final plat
review shall not begin until, or unless, all copies of the final plat and
accompanying material have been submitted to the Zoning Administrator a minimum
of 21 days prior to City Council consideration.
   2.   Referral of Final Plat. The Zoning Administrator shall refer one copy
each to the City Engineer, Building Inspector, and Planning and Zoning
Commission. Each of the aforementioned offices shall examine the plat as to its
compliance with the laws and regulations of the City and submit their findings
to the Zoning Administrator as soon as possible, but within 30 days.
   3.   Contents of Final Plat. Final plats shall contain, include, or show the
following requirements:
      A.   Name of subdivision and proprietor.
      B.   Plats shall be drawn on sheets not larger than 24 inches by 36
inches. The scale of the plat, preferably one inch equals 100 feet, shall be
clearly stated and graphically illustrated by a bar scale on every plat sheet.
Larger subdivisions that require more than one sheet shall show match lines and
references.
      C.   An arrow indicating the northern direction.
      D.   Curve date including delta angle, length of arc, degree of curve,
and length and direction of the chord.
      E.   Boundary lines of subdivided area with accurate distances, bearings,
and boundary angles. The unadjusted error of closure shall not be greater than
one in 10,000 for subdivision boundaries and shall not be greater than one in
5,000 for an individual lot. The areas of irregular lots within the plat shall
be shown and may be expressed in either acres to the nearest one-hundredth
acre, or square feet to the nearest 10 square feet.
      F.   Exact name, location, width, and designation of all streets within
the subdivision. Additionally alleys, parks, open areas, school property, other
areas of public use, or areas within the plat that are set aside for future
development shall be assigned a progressive letter and have the proposed use
clearly designated.
      G.   The purpose of any easement shown on the plat shall be clearly
stated and shall be confined to only those easements pertaining to public
utilities including gas, power, telephone, water, sewer, and such drainage or
access easements as are deemed necessary for the orderly development of the
land encompassed within the plat. All such easements relative to their usage
and maintenance shall be recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
approved by the City Council prior to the recording of the plat. 
      H.   Building setback lines with dimensions.
      I.   Legal description of the property being subdivided.
      J.   Lot numbers.
      K.   Certificate of Survey.
      L.   Description and location of all permanent monuments set in the
subdivision, including ties to original government corners.
      M.   A table that lists coordinate values for all property corners.
   4.   Accompanying Material.
      A.   The documents required by Chapter 354.11 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   A copy of any proposed restrictive covenants, which shall be
submitted for the purpose of review and recommendation by the City Attorney.
      C.   Any dedication or easement to the City for any property intended for
public use.
   5.   Review by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall review the final plat in the same manner that they addressed
preliminary plats, Section 166.04(5) of this chapter, and forward its
recommendation to the City Council.
   6.   Action by the City Council.
      A.   Upon receipt of the final plat and the required documents from the
Planning and Zoning Commission, the City Council will consider the
recommendations from the reviewing offices. The City Council shall approve or
disapprove the final plat. If the final plat is disapproved by the Council,
such disapproval shall state in writing how the proposed plat is objectionable.
The applicant has the right to appeal to district court, within 20 days, the
failure of the Council to issue approval of the final plat as provided in this
chapter. If approved, the final plat shall be certified by resolution.
      B.   The City Council may refuse to approve any plats for proposed
subdivisions, which include improvements or facilities that are subject to
regulations and ordinances of the County Board of Health, unless such
improvements or facilities have been approved by that department. The City
Council may deny approval of a final plat where the lots have an area less than
the minimum area required by such applicable regulations and ordinances.
      C.   The passage of a resolution by the City Council accepting the plat
shall constitute final platting approval for the area shown on the final plat.
The proprietor shall cause such plat to be recorded as required by Chapter 354
of the Code of Iowa, before the County shall recognize the plat as being in
full force and effect. In addition, eight copies of the approved final plat and
adopting resolution, as well as one copy of the completed plat proceedings with
restrictive covenants, shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator by the
proprietor.
   7.   Improvements.
      A.   All standards and improvements described in Section 166.03 of this
chapter shall be installed in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications before acceptance of the final plat by the City Council. All
improvements shall be inspected by the proprietor’s engineer and City Engineer
and certified to the City Council with the cost of said inspection by the City
Engineer being reimbursed to the City.
      B.   Subdivisions may be developed in phases.
      C.   Before acceptance of the improvements by the City Council, the
proprietor may enter into an agreement with the City Council to ensure the
completion of the improvements within a specified time period. The agreement
shall specify the improvements to be constructed, the schedule for completion
of the construction (each phase not to exceed three years) and shall be
accompanied with a performance bond, corporate surety bond, cash, or other
surety approved by the City Attorney in an amount equal to 100 percent of the
estimated cost of said improvements.
      D.   The proprietor of the land being platted shall be required to
provide to the City property maintenance bonds, or other means satisfactory to
the City Engineer and City Attorney, so as to insure that for a period of two
years from the date of acceptance and completion of any improvement, the
proprietor shall be responsible for maintaining the improvements in good
repair.
166.06   STAMP OR SIGNATURE BLOCK REQUIRED.
   1.   Recording Subdivision Plats or Plats of Survey.
      A.   All subdivision plats or plats of survey involving the division of
land shall be reviewed for compliance with the regulations contained in this
chapter prior to being recorded. Each subdivision plat or plat of survey shall
have a completed stamp or signature block, which indicates that the subdivision
plat or plat of survey was reviewed by the City Zoning Administrator or their
designee for compliance with this chapter.
      B.   Plats of survey or America Land Title Surveys or boundary location
surveys not involving the division of land will be clearly stamped as such on
the survey or plat of survey.
      C.   In accordance with Chapter 354.8 of the Code of Iowa (2022),
governing bodies shall apply reasonable standards and conditions in accordance
with applicable statutes and ordinances for the review and approval of
subdivisions. Pursuant to Section 354.18 of the Code of Iowa (2022), the
Recorder shall refuse to record a subdivision plat or plat of survey that does
not bear the appropriate stamp or signature block signed by the (title of the
ordinance administrator) or designee, unless such subdivision plat or plat of
survey is accompanied by a resolution from the City Council approving the
subdivision plat or plat of survey or waiving the right to review, or unless
such plat is clearly stamped as a plat of survey or an America Land Title
Survey not involving a division of land.
   2.   Language.
   Stamp #1 (For use when a division is involved):
   This Plat or Subdivision has been reviewed by the City of Elk Run Heights.
   __________________________________________   _______________
   Signature of City Zoning Administrator or Designee    Date
   Stamp #2 (For use by surveyors and engineers when a division is not
involved):
   This Plat or Survey is not a division of land.
   Reference: Book _____ Page# _____ or Document # _____
   __________________________________________   _______________
   Signature of Surveyor/Engineer               Date
166.07   MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   1.   Requirements and Procedures.
      A.   The proprietor shall prepare the proposed minor subdivision plat and
shall submit five copies to the Zoning Administrator. Said plat shall contain
such information as required by this chapter, specifically the requirements in
Sections
166.05(3) and (4) of this chapter, or as may be specified by the Zoning
Administrator.
      B.   If the Zoning Administrator shall determine that the minor
subdivision plat contains sufficient data and elements to furnish a basis for
review, then the Zoning Administrator shall forward copies of the submitted
plat to the City Engineer, Building Inspector, and to such other agencies or
persons as may be deemed appropriate and necessary.
      C.   Review by Agencies. Within 10 working days following receipt of an
application by the Zoning Administrator:
         (1)   The City Engineer shall notify the Zoning Administrator that
access onto the City street will, or will not, be granted and that other
improvements do, or do not, conform to current standards.
         (2)   The City Engineer and/or the public works personnel shall notify
the Zoning Administrator that the land so proposed to be subdivided will comply
with all applicable City, County, and State standards, and that the proposed or
existing system of water supply complies with applicable City, County, and
State standards.
         (3)   Other agencies or persons shall inform the Zoning Administrator
of factors deemed appropriate and necessary.
      D.   Within 20 working days following the date of receipt of an
application, or such additional period as the proprietor may authorize, the
Zoning Administrator may schedule a public hearing on the subdivision request
with the City Council.
      E.   The City Council may approve or disapprove of the subdivision
request, or they may refer the request to the Planning and Zoning Commission
for their recommendation prior to considering the minor plat. If the minor plat
is disapproved by the Council, such disapproval shall state, in writing, how
the proposed plat is objectionable. The applicant has the right to appeal
within 20 days to district court, the failure of the Council to issue final
approval of the minor plat as provided in this chapter. If approved, the minor
plat shall be certified by resolution.
      F.   Limitation. This section shall not be applicable to a parcel of land
of any size which has previously had a subdivision severed from it. For
definition purposes of this section only, a parcel of land shall mean any sized
contiguous piece of property under same ownership as shown on the County
Auditor’s plat books as of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter.
166.08   ESTABLISHMENT OF PLACES.
   Where it is desired to subdivide a parcel of land, which, because of its
size or location, does not permit a normal lot or street area, there may be
established a “place.” Such a place may be in the form of a court, non-
connecting street, or other arrangement; provided, however, that proper access
shall be given to all lots from a dedicated place (street or court). If any
dead-end place, court, or cul-de-sac is more than 250 feet in length, it shall
terminate in an open space, preferably circular and having a minimum radius of
60 feet. Except in unusual instances, no dead-end street or place shall exceed
600 feet in length.
166.09   BUILDING PERMITS AND OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   1.   No occupancy permit for any building in a subdivision shall be issued
prior to the completion of the improvements in a manner which shall be adequate
for vehicular access by the prospective occupant and by law enforcement and
fire equipment.
   2.   No building permits shall be issued in the subdivision prior to the
time that the streets and easements affecting such lot are brought to the grade
established in the construction plans.
   3.   No building permit shall be issued for the final 10 percent of lots, or
the final five lots of a subdivision, whichever is greater, until all public
improvements required by the City Council for the plat have been fully
completed and dedicated to the City.
166.10   VACATION OF PLATS, STREETS, AND OTHER PUBLIC LANDS.
   The following section is intended to be consistent with Sections 354.22 and
354.23 of the Code of Iowa, as amended, and any changes to the Code of Iowa
shall automatically be assumed to be part of this section. Prior to
consideration by the City Council, all vacations of plats, streets, and other
public lands shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission. A
recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be forwarded to
the City Council.
   1.   Vacation of Plats. The proprietors of lots within an official plat who
wish to vacate any portion of the official plat shall file a petition with the
Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation. After review by
the Commission, the petition and recommendation are filed with the City
Council, and they shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
petition. Written notice of the public hearing shall be provided by the
petitioner to proprietors and mortgagees within 300 feet of the area to be
vacated. If a portion of the official plat adjoins a river or State-owned lake,
the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be served written notice of the
proposed vacation. Notice of the proposed vacation shall be published twice,
with 14 days between publications, stating the date, time, and place of the
public hearing. The official plat or portion of the official plat shall be
vacated upon recording of all the following documents:
      A.   An instrument signed, executed, and acknowledged by all the
proprietors and mortgagees within the area of the official plat to be vacated,
declaring the plat to be vacated. The instrument shall state the existing lot
description for each property along with an accurate description to be used to
describe the land after the lots are vacated.
      B.   A resolution by the City Council, approving the vacation and
providing for the conveyance to those areas included in the vacation which were
previously set aside for dedicated public use.
      C.   A certificate of the County Auditor that the vacated part of the
plat can be adequately described for assessment and taxation purposes without
reference to the vacated lots.
   No part of this section authorizes the closing or obstructing of public
highways. The vacation of a portion of an official plat shall not remove or
otherwise affect a recorded restrictive covenant, protective covenant, building
restriction, or use restriction. Recorded restrictions on the use of property
within an official plat shall be modified or revoked by recording a consent to
the modification or removal, signed and acknowledged by the proprietors and
mortgagees within the official plat.
   2.   Vacation of Streets and Other Public Lands. The City may vacate a part
of an official plat that had been conveyed to the City or dedicated to public
which is deemed by the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council to be of
no benefit to the public. The City Council shall vacate by resolution following
a public hearing, or, by ordinance, and the vacating instrument shall be
recorded. The City may convey the vacated property by deed, or may convey the
property to adjoining proprietors through the vacation instrument. If the
vacating instrument is used to convey property, then the instrument shall
include a list of adjoining proprietors to whom the vacated property is being
conveyed, along with the corresponding legal description of each parcel being
conveyed. A recorded vacation instrument that conforms to this chapter is
equivalent to a deed of conveyance, and the instrument shall be filed and
indexed as a conveyance by the County Recorder and County Auditor. A vacation
instrument recorded pursuant to this section shall not operate to annul any
part of an official plat except as provided for in Subsection 1 of this
section.
   3.   See also
Chapter 137 (Vacation and Disposal of Streets) of this Code of Ordinances.
166.11   FEES.
   Nonrefundable fees pertaining to permits and actions required by this
chapter shall be in accord with the following schedule of fees. Said fees shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
   1.   Major subdivisions: $100.00, plus $10.00 per lot.
   2.   Minor subdivisions: $50.00,·plus $10.00 per lot.
   3.   Vacation of plats, streets, and other public lands: $50.00. (This fee
shall not be administered and collected if the dedication or vacation is
processed in the form of a plat and either minor or major subdivision fees are
paid in lieu thereof.)
   4.   Recording fees, per a schedule on file in the County Recorder’s office.
166.12   VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   Whenever the tract proposed to be subdivided is of such unusual topography,
size, or shape, or is surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that
the strict application of the requirements contained in these regulations would
result in substantial hardships or injustices, the City Council, upon
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, may vary or modify such
requirements to allow the proprietor to develop in a reasonable manner with due
regard for the public health, welfare, and safety so that the interests of the
City and surrounding area are protected and the general intent and spirit of
this chapter is preserved.
166.13   ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   1.   After the date of adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter,
no plat or any subdivision in or within two miles of the corporate limits of
the City shall be recorded in the County Recorder’s office, or have any
validity, until it has been approved in the manner prescribed herein.
   2.   No street hereafter created in the incorporated area of Elk Run Heights
shall become a part of any street system as defined in the Code of Iowa; and no
improvements shall be made by the City, nor shall the City incur any expense
for maintenance or repair of roads or other facilities on land that had been
subdivided after the date of adoption of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, unless such road or other facility shall have been first approved and
accepted by the City Council in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
and the dedication thereof accepted as a public road or improvement
   3.   The City shall not issue building, occupancy, or repair permits for any
structure located on a lot in any subdivision developed after the date of
adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter that is located within the
City, unless the plat of such subdivision has been first approved in accordance
with the provisions contained herein.
   4.   Violations of the provisions of this chapter, or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, shall constitute a municipal infraction, the
conviction of which shall constitute a misdemeanor authorizing a fine of not
more than $100.00 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing contained
herein shall prevent the City from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
166.14   CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   Any provisions of these regulations may be changed and amended from time to
time by the City Council; provided, however, that such changes and amendments
shall not become effective until after study and recommendation by the Planning
and Zoning Commission and in accordance with the regulations and provisions of
the City and the Code of Iowa.
 
