CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF ELY, IOWA
Adopted June 11, 2018, by Ordinance No. 269
Prepared By:   Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa  50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date    Subject
Aug-18    65.02(16)               270      7-9-18  Stop Intersection
          Ch. 165                 271      7-9-18  Zoning Regulations
          Ch. 165                 272      7-9-18  Zoning Regulations
          Ch. 165                 273      7-9-18  Zoning Regulations
          45.01, 45.04, 120.05(1, 274      8-13-18 Alcoholic Beverage Control
          3, 4, 5)
          121.05                  275      8-13-18 Cigarette and Tobacco
                                                   Permits
Jun-19    Ch. 148                 276      1-14-19 Illicit Discharge
                                                   Ordinance
          Ch. 147                 277      3-11-19 Erosion and Sediment
                                                   Control
          99.01(1)                278      6-10-19 Sewer Service Charges
          106.08                  279      4-8-19  Solid Waste Collection
                                                   Fees
          170.06                  280      6-10-19 Subdivision Control
          69.11                   281      6-10-19 Parking On One Side of
                                                   Street
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
1.01  Title                 1.09  Catchlines and Notes
1.02  Definitions           1.10  Altering Code
1.03  City Powers           1.11  Severability
1.04  Indemnity             1.12  Warrants
1.05  Personal Injuries     1.13  General Standards for Action
1.06  Rules of Construction 1.14  Standard Penalty
1.07  Extension of Authority1.15  Right of Entry
1.08  Amendments
 
1.01   TITLE.
This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Ely, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the Code
of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council
or repugnant to the context of the provision.  Other words and phrases used
herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in
another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
   1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property. 
   2.   “City” means the City of Ely, Iowa.
   3.   “Clerk” means the City Clerk/Administrator of Ely, Iowa.
   4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
   5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of Ely,
Iowa.
   6.   “Council” means the city council of Ely, Iowa.
   7.   “County” means Linn County, Iowa.
   8.   “May” confers a power.
   9.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution or motion.
   10.   “Must” states a requirement.
   11.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   12.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Ely, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
   13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   14.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   15.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   16.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge
of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   17.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   18.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
   19.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if not
inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its
residents, and each and every provision of this Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing. 
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused.  The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend.  A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury.  The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant.  No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Council
or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not
specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard:  The discretionary power to
grant, deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$65.00 but not to exceed $625.00.  The court may order imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days in lieu of a fine or in addition to a fine.† 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 †EDITOR’S NOTE:  For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 3.
1.15   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any ordinance, or whenever
there is reasonable cause to believe that there exists an ordinance violation
in any building or upon any premises within the jurisdiction of the City, any
authorized official of the City may, upon presentation of proper credentials,
enter such building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same and
to perform any duty imposed upon such official by ordinance; provided that,
except in emergency situations, such official shall first give the owner and/or
occupant, if they can be located after reasonable effort, 24-hour written
notice of the authorized official’s intention to inspect.  In the event the
owner and/or occupant refuses entry, the official is empowered to seek
assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such entry.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01  Title                             2.04  Number and Term of Council
2.02  Form of Government                2.05  Term of Mayor
2.03  Powers and Duties of City Officers2.06  Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Ely, Iowa.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the official
records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies of the
charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01  Municipal Infraction   3.04  Civil Citations
3.02  Environmental Violation3.05  Alternative Relief
3.03  Penalties              3.06  Alternative Penalties
 
3.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted
by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.† 2
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
  †EDITOR’S NOTE:  For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
2 Ordinances, see Section
  1.14.
3.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa
or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the Department of
Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental violation. 
However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable until the City
has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding the violation or
to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
   2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
   3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03   PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
      A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00
      B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
   2.   Special Civil Penalties.
      A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each
day a violation exists or continues.
      B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence. 
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
         (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the
time that the violation begins.
         (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may issue
a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction.  A copy of the
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311.  A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court.  The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
   1.   The name and address of the defendant.
   2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
   3.   The location and time of the infraction.
   4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
   5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
   6.   The time and place of court appearance.
   7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
3.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action.  Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[8])
3.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal citation
for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal penalties
are also provided for the violation.  Nor does it preclude or limit the
authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances by
criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[11])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01  Oaths                5.07  Conflict of Interest
5.02  Bonds                5.08  Resignations
5.03  Powers and Duties    5.09  Removal of Appointed Officers and Appointed
                            Employees
5.04  Books and Records    5.10  Vacancies
5.05  Transfer to Successor5.11  Gifts
5.06  Meetings             5.12  Minimum Wage
 
5.01   OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Qualify for Office.  Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify
for office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. 
The oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
   2.   Prescribed Oath.  The prescribed oath is:  “I, (name), do solemnly
swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially,
to the best of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of
office) in Ely as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
   3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths.  The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
      A.   Mayor
      B.   City Clerk
      C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
   1.   Required.  The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
   2.   Bonds Approved.  Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
   3.   Bonds Filed.  All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])
4.   Record.  The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[3])
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open to
examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential. 
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 & 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06   MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
   1.   Notice of Meetings.  Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date, and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
   2.   Meetings Open.  All meetings shall be held in open session unless
closed sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   3.   Minutes.  Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time
and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting.  The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present.  The vote of each member present
shall be made public at the open session.  The minutes shall be public records
open to public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   4.   Closed Session.  A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting
and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
   5.   Cameras and Recorders.  The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
   6.   Electronic Meetings.  A meeting may be conducted by electronic means
only in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or
impractical and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law.  A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void.  The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
   1.   Compensation of Officers.  The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
   2.   Investment of Funds.  The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
   3.   City Treasurer.  An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
   4.   Stock Interests.  Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract.  The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
   5.   Newspaper.  The designation of an official newspaper. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
   6.   Existing Contracts.  A contract in which a City officer or employee has
an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee
was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
   7.   Volunteers.  Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
   8.   Corporations.  A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
   9.   Contracts.  Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
   10.   Cumulative Purchases.  Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a
cumulative total purchase price of $2,500.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
   11.   Franchise Agreements.  Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
   12.   Third Party Contracts.  A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3m])
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and considered. 
A person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for appointment to
the same office during the time for which the person was elected if, during
that time, the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND APPOINTED EMPLOYEES.
Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or to City employment may be removed by the officer or body making
the appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order.  The order
shall give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall
be sent by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with
the Clerk within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a
public hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. 
The hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
5.10   VACANCIES.
A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled in
accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11   GIFTS.
Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
5.12   MINIMUM WAGE.
The Linn County Minimum Wage adopted by the Linn County Board of Supervisors on
or about the 12th day of September, 2016, is hereby rejected insofar as it
raises the minimum wage requirement above those set by Chapter 91D of the 2016
Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01  Nominating Method to Be Used6.04  Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02  Nominations by Petition     6.05  Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                   Objections
6.03  Adding Name by Petition     6.06  Persons Elected
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 10 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy.  The
petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5 & 45.6)
6.05   FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of validity
thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the effect of
such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of such
petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by the
appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on the
ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01  Purpose        7.05  Operating Budget Preparation
7.02  Finance Officer7.06  Budget Amendments
7.03  Cash Control   7.07  Accounting
7.04  Fund Control   7.08  Financial Reports
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
The City Clerk/Administrator is the finance and accounting officer of the City
and is responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following shall
apply:
   1.   Deposit of Funds.  All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any
City officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer.  If
any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive. 
   2.   Deposits and Investments.  All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
   3.   Petty Cash Fund.  The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty
cash fund for the City Administrative Offices and for the Ely Public Library
for the payment of small claims for minor purchases, collect-on-delivery
transportation charges, and small fees customarily paid at the time of
rendering a service, for which payments the Clerk shall obtain some form of
receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or agent.  The amount of the
petty cash funds shall be established by resolution of the Council.  At such
time as the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the Clerk shall draw a
check for replenishment in the amount of the accumulated expenditures and said
check and supporting detail shall be submitted to the Council as a claim in the
usual manner for claims and charged to the proper funds and accounts.  It shall
not be used for salary payments or other personal services or personal
expenses. 
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following: 
   1.   Revenues.  All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
   2.   Expenditures.  No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council. 
   3.   Emergency Fund.  No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[2])
   4.   Debt Service Fund.  Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest.  Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[3])
   5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund.  Except where specifically
prohibited by State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the
Capital Improvements Reserve Fund.  Such transfers must be authorized by the
original budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[4])
   6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds.  A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise
Fund may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council.  A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund.  A surplus shall be defined as the cash balance in
the operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with GAAP, after adding back the net pension and other postemployment benefits
liabilities and the related deferred inflows of resources and deducting the
related deferred outflows of resources, in excess of:
      A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months, and
      B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[5])
   7.   Balancing of Funds.  Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of
each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Proposal Prepared.  The finance officer is responsible for preparation
of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption
by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
   2.   Boards and Commissions.  All boards, commissions, and other
administrative agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and
administer budgets must submit their budget proposals to the finance officer
for inclusion in the proposed City budget at such time and in such form as
required by the Council.
   3.   Submission to Council.  The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council no later than February 15 of each year.
   4.   Council Review.  The Council shall review the proposed budget and may
make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
   5.   Notice of Hearing.  Upon adopting a proposed budget the Council shall
set a date for public hearing thereon to be held before March 15 and cause
notice of such hearing and a summary of the proposed budget to be published not
less than 10 or more than 20 days before the date established for the hearing. 
Proof of such publication must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
   6.   Copies of Budget on File.  Not less than 20 days before the date that
the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days
before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number
of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
   7.   Adoption and Certification.  After the hearing, the Council shall
adopt, by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk
shall certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County
Auditor and the County Board of Supervisors.  The tax levy certified may be
less than, but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget.  Two
copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate must
be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
   1.   Program Increase.  Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.2[384, 388])
   2.   Program Transfer.  Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget. 
(IAC, 545-2.3[384, 388])
   3.   Activity Transfer.  Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council. 
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
   4.   Administrative Transfers.  The finance officer shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval. 
(IAC, 545-2.4[384, 388])
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
   1.   Books of Original Entry.  There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed. 
   2.   General Ledger.  There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.   
   3.   Checks.  Two signatures are required on all City checks.  Checks shall
be prenumbered and signed by any two of the following:  Clerk, Deputy Clerk,
Mayor, and Mayor Pro Tem, following Council approval, except as provided by
subsection 5 hereof.
   4.   Budget Accounts.  There shall be established such individual accounts
to record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council.  Each individual account shall be maintained within
its proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly
compared with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the
authorizing appropriation.  No expenditure shall be posted except to the
appropriation for the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
   5.   Immediate Payment Authorized.  The Council may by resolution authorize
the Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not
paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost.  Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment.  The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include (but is
not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll, and
bond principal and interest.
   6.   Utilities.  The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
   1.   Monthly Reports.  There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
   2.   Annual Report.  Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year.  A copy of the annual report must be
filed with the Auditor of State not later than December 1 of each year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
CHAPTER 8
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED   NAME OF AREA
152           12-8-1997 Ely Urban Renewal Area
167           4-9-2001  2001 Addition to Ely Urban Renewal Area
170           12-9-2002 2002 Addition to Ely Urban Renewal Area
181           9-12-2005 2005 Addition to Ely Urban Renewal Area
239           4-14-2014 2014 Addition to Ely Urban Renewal Area
 
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01  Term of Office   15.04  Compensation
15.02  Powers and Duties15.05  Voting
15.03  Appointments
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
   1.   Chief Executive Officer.  Act as the chief executive officer of the
City and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the
City, give direction to department heads concerning the functions of the
departments, and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal
departments, their records and to call for special reports from department
heads at any time. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   2.   Proclamation of Emergency.  Have authority to take command of the
police and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a
time of emergency or public danger exists.  Within the City limits, the Mayor
has all the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
   3.   Special Meetings.  Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.   
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   4.   Mayor’s Veto.  Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution passed by the Council.  The Mayor may veto an
ordinance, amendment, or resolution within 14 days after passage.  The Mayor
shall explain the reasons for the veto in a written message to the Council at
the time of the veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 & 380.6[2])
   5.   Reports to Council.  Make such oral or written reports to the Council
as required.  These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
   6.   Negotiations.  Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered
into in accordance with law or ordinance.  The Mayor shall not represent the
City where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law,
ordinance, or Council direction.
   7.   Contracts.  Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on
behalf of the City.
   8.   Professional Services.  Upon order of the Council, secure for the City
such specialized and professional services not already available to the City. 
In executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with
this Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State. 
   9.   Licenses and Permits.  Sign all licenses and permits that have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
   10.   Nuisances.  Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
   11.   Absentee Officer.  Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
The Mayor shall appoint the Mayor Pro Tem and the Mayor also appoints, with
Council approval, the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
   1.   Library Board of Trustees
   2.   Park and Recreation Commission
15.04   COMPENSATION.
The salary of the Mayor is $4,000.00 per year, payable quarterly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.05   VOTING.
The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4) 
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01  Vice President of Council16.03  Voting Rights
16.02  Powers and Duties        16.04  Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties.  In the exercise of the duties of the office the Mayor
Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from employment
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ, or
discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01  Number and Term of Council17.04  Council Meetings
17.02  Powers and Duties         17.05  Appointments
17.03  Exercise of Power         17.06  Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 & 376.2)
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   General.  All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   2.   Wards.  By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based
upon population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or create new
wards. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])
   3.   Fiscal Authority.  The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims, and order
payment thereof.  It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16 & 384.38[1])
   4.   Public Improvements.  The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   5.   Contracts.  The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts.  No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 26.10)
6.   Employees.  The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers.  By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other
elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not
become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of a
regular City election.  A change in the compensation of Council members becomes
effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council
members elected at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
   1.   Action by Council.  Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council.  Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council.  A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion.  Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded.  A
measure that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
   2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto.  Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   3.   Measures Become Effective.  Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:
      A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.   
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
      B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
      C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
      D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
      E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage,
and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of
the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances.  Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
   1.   Regular Meetings.  The time and place of the regular meetings of the
Council shall be fixed by resolution of the Council.
   2.   Special Meetings.  Special meetings shall be held upon call of the
Mayor or upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   3.   Quorum.  A majority of all Council members is a quorum. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
   4.   Rules of Procedure.  The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   5.   Compelling Attendance.  Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at
once. 
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation, and term of office:
   1.   City Clerk
   2.   City Attorney
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission
   4.   Zoning Board of Adjustment
   5.   Building Board of Appeals
   6.   Electrical Board of Appeals
   7.   Airport Zoning Commission (two members)
   8.   Airport Zoning Board of Adjustment (two members)
17.06   COMPENSATION.
The salary of each Council member is $40.00 for each meeting of the Council
attended, payable quarterly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK/ADMINISTRATOR
 
18.01  Appointment and Compensation18.08  Records
18.02  Powers and Duties: General  18.09  Attendance at Meetings
18.03  Publication of Minutes      18.10  Licenses and Permits
18.04  Recording Measures          18.11  Notification of Appointments
18.05  Other Publications          18.12  Elections
18.06  Authentication              18.13  City Seal
18.07  Certification
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
At its first meeting in January following the regular City election, the
Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Clerk/Administrator to serve for
a term of two years.  The Clerk shall receive such compensation as established
by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES:  GENERAL.
The Clerk or, in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk has
the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances, and
the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting, the Clerk shall cause
the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published.  Such publication shall
include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall
show the gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 & 2])
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments, proceedings
and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
   1.   Time.  If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
   2.   Manner of Publication.  A publication required by this Code of
Ordinances or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City, except that ordinances and amendments
may be published by posting in the following places:
      Solon State Bank – Ely
      Ely Post Office
      Ely Community Center (City Hall)
The Clerk is hereby directed to post promptly such ordinances and amendments,
and to leave them so posted for not less than 10 days after the first date of
posting.  Unauthorized removal of the posted ordinance or amendment prior to
the completion of the ten days shall not affect the validity of said ordinance
or amendment.  The Clerk shall note the first date of such posting on the
official copy of the ordinance and in the official ordinance book immediately
following the ordinance.
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district, building
lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or limits to the
recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
   1.   Ordinances and Codes.  Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances
and codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
   2.   Custody.  Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   3.   Maintenance.  Maintain all City records and documents, or accurate
reproductions, for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating
to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption or replacement of public
bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the final
maturity of the bonds or obligations.  Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating to real
property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 & 5])
   4.   Provide Copy.  Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of
any record, paper or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments that by this Code
of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 & 5] and 380.7[5])
   5.   Filing of Communications.  Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally.  The Clerk shall
endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and commissions. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit, and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to offices
in the City government of their positions and the time at which they shall
assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   ELECTIONS.
The Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in accordance with
Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13   CITY SEAL.
The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the Clerk
to all transcripts, orders, and certificates that it may be necessary or proper
to authenticate. 
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01  Appointment 19.03  Duties of Treasurer
19.02  Compensation
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
The City Clerk/Administrator is the Treasurer and performs all functions
required of the position of Treasurer.
19.02   COMPENSATION.
The Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing the duties of the
Treasurer.
19.03   DUTIES OF TREASURER.
The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Custody of Funds.  Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law and Council direction. 
   2.   Record of Fund.  Keep the record of each fund separate. 
   3.   Record Receipts.  Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received. 
   4.   Record Disbursements.  Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid. 
   5.   Special Assessments.  Keep a separate account of all money received by
the Treasurer from special assessments. 
   6.   Deposit Funds.  Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
   7.   Reconciliation.  Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s
books and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of
each fund and amounts received and disbursed.
   8.   Debt Service.  Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
   9.   Other Duties.  Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance. 
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01  Appointment and Compensation20.05  Review and Comment
20.02  Attorney for City           20.06  Provide Legal Opinion
20.03  Power of Attorney           20.07  Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04  Ordinance Preparation       20.08  Prepare Documents
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve at the
discretion of the Council.  The City Attorney shall receive such compensation
as established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board.  The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend
all actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to or
coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms,
and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 21
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
21.01  Public Library                  21.07  Nonresident Use
21.02  Library Trustees                21.08  Expenditures
21.03  Qualifications of Trustees      21.09  Annual Report
21.04  Organization of the Board       21.10  Injury to Books or Property
21.05  Powers and Duties               21.11  Theft
21.06  Contracting with Other Libraries21.12  Notice Posted
 
21.01   PUBLIC LIBRARY.
The public library for the City is known as the Ely Public Library.  It is
referred to in this chapter as the Library.
21.02   LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of five resident members and two nonresident members.  All resident
members are to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council.  The
nonresident members are to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
County Board of Supervisors.
21.03   QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
All resident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents of
the City.  The nonresident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and
residents of the unincorporated County.  Members shall be over the age of 18
years.
21.04   ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
   1.   Term of Office.  All appointments to the Board shall be for six years,
except to fill vacancies.  Each term shall commence on July 1.  Appointments
shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or as near as
possible, to stagger the terms.
   2.   Vacancies.  The position of any resident Trustee shall be vacated if
such member moves permanently from the City.  The position of a nonresident
Trustee shall be vacated if such member moves permanently from the County or
into the City.  The position of any Trustee shall be deemed vacated if such
member is absent from six consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in
the case of sickness or temporary absence from the City or County.  Vacancies
in the Board shall be filled in the same manner as an original appointment
except that the new Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the
appointment is made. 
   3.   Compensation.  Trustees shall receive no compensation for their
services. 
21.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Officers.  To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary,
and such other officers as it deems necessary.  The City Treasurer shall serve
as Board Treasurer, but shall not be a member of the Board.
   2.   Physical Plant.  To have charge, control and supervision of the
Library, its appurtenances, fixtures and rooms containing the same.
   3.   Charge of Affairs.  To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
   4.   Hiring of Personnel.  To employ a Library Director, and authorize the
Library Director to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary
for the proper management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided,
however, prior to such employment, the compensation of the Library Director,
assistants, and employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of
the members of the Board voting in favor thereof.
   5.   Removal of Personnel.  To remove the Library Director, by a two-thirds
vote of the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
   6.   Purchases.  To select, or authorize the Library Director to select, and
make purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps,
journals, other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and
supplies for the Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
   7.   Use by Nonresidents.  To authorize the use of the Library by
nonresidents and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service
exists.
   8.   Rules and Regulations.  To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the
law, for the care, use, government and management of the Library and the
business of the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
   9.   Expenditures.  To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all
funds allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys
available by gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of
all other moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals collected
under the rules of the Board.
   10.   Gifts.  To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed
property, and devises and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title to
said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills of sale
for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them
from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.
   11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts.  To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises and bequests accepted by
the City by action against the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 661)
   12.   Record of Proceedings.  To keep a record of its proceedings.
   13.   City and County Historical Associations.  To have authority to make
agreements with the local City and County historical associations where such
exists, and to set apart the necessary room and to care for such articles as
may come into the possession of the association.  The Trustees are further
authorized to purchase necessary receptacles and materials for the preservation
and protection of such articles as are in their judgment of a historical and
educational nature and pay for the same out of funds allocated for Library
purposes.
21.06   CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Contracting.  The Board may contract with any other boards of trustees
of free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 & Ch. 28E)
   2.   Termination.  Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties.  It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties.  Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election.  The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election.  The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law which is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract. 
21.07   NONRESIDENT USE.
The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of the
City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
   1.   Lending.  By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee. 
   2.   Depository.  By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents. 
   3.   Bookmobiles.  By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so
that books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents. 
   4.   Branch Library.  By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents. 
21.08   EXPENDITURES.
All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of the
Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library.  Expenditures shall
be paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and Secretary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 & 392.5)
21.09   ANNUAL REPORT.
The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of the
fiscal year.  This report shall contain statements as to the condition of the
Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount of fines
collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of the Library
during the year, together with such further information as may be required by
the Council.
21.10   INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear, deface,
mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper, periodical,
book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture or other property belonging to the Library
or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
21.11   THEFT.
No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with the
intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
21.12   NOTICE POSTED.
There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices informing
the public of the following:
   1.   Failure to Return.  Failure to return Library materials for two months
or more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material or equipment is overdue and
criminal actions will be taken, has been made to reclaim the materials or
equipment. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
   2.   Detention and Search.  Persons concealing Library materials may be
detained and searched pursuant to law. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 22
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
22.01  Planning and Zoning Commission22.04  Compensation
22.02  Term of Office                22.05  Powers and Duties
22.03  Vacancies
 
22.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of seven members appointed by the Council.  The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 & 392.1)
22.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be five years.  The
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
22.03   VACANCIES.
If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise, a
successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the same manner as
the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
22.04   COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
22.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Selection of Officers.  The Commission shall choose annually at its
first regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as
Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
the Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations.  The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   3.   Zoning.  The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and
duties and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other
related matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
   4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   5.   Review and Comment on Plats.  All plans, plats, or re-plats of
subdivisions or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid
out in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to
the Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
6.   Fiscal Responsibilities.  The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts.  The Commission shall have no power
to contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   8.   Annual Report.  The Commission shall each year make a report to the
Mayor and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 23
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
 
23.01  Commission Created23.03  Powers and Duties
23.02  Term of Office    23.04  Receipt of Funds
 
23.01   COMMISSION CREATED.
There is hereby created a Parks and Recreation Commission, composed of seven
members, who shall be qualified by knowledge and experience to act in matters
pertaining to the development of recreation facilities, none of whom shall hold
an elective position in the City.  Such members shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of Council.
23.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of said members shall be two years, except that the members
first named shall hold office for such terms, not exceeding two years, that the
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year. 
Any vacancy occurring on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise,
shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term with the approval of the
Council.  All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation except
their actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
23.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and possess the following powers and duties and such
other powers as may be incidental to the successful carrying out of its
functions under the powers vested herein and such other powers as may be
expressly conferred upon it by law:
   1.   Officers, Meetings, and Quorum. 
      A.   To meet and elect from its members, a Chairperson, Secretary, and
such other officers as it deems necessary.  The City Clerk shall serve as
Commission Treasurer. 
      B.   To conduct regular open meetings and conduct its business at such
meetings under procedure outlined by the Chairperson.  The Commission will meet
the second Tuesday of each month.
      C.   A quorum for conducting business of the Commission shall be four
members.
   2.   Function.  To provide for the recreational needs of the general public
in a manner best suited for the size and composition of the population of the
City and in a manner which provides for the maximum use of recreation
facilities and programs with due regard for efficiency and economy.
   3.   Authority.  To have exclusive authority and control over the
development, maintenance, repair, operation, and use of all public recreational
facilities, programs and grounds designated by the Council for recreational
use, including but not limited to the grounds surrounding the Ely Community
Center.
   4.   Regulatory Power.  To establish and enforce reasonable rules and
regulations for the use of, or participation in all public recreational
facilities, programs and grounds under the control of the Commission by members
of the general public and to affix reasonable charges for such use if such use
is deemed necessary by the Commission.  However, all rules and regulations
governing the use of recreational facilities and programs within the community
center building shall be consistent with rules established for the use of the
building by the City Council.  All such rules and regulations shall be readily
available to the public and posted at or near the facility to which the rules
apply. 
   5.   Budgeting Authority.  To prepare proposed budgets or amendments thereto
for the development, maintenance, operation, and use by the public of all
public recreation facilities, programs and grounds under the control of the
commission for submission and approval by the City Council.  The Commission
shall administer the recreation budget as finally adopted by the City Council.
   6.   Acquisitions or Sale of Real Property.  The Commission shall not have
the power to acquire land by purchase or condemnation, as such power is
reserved to the City Council, nor shall the Commission have the power to sell
or trade lands without the prior approval of the City Council.  The Commission
shall, however, make recommendations to the Mayor and the City Council for
acquisition or sale of recreational land as it deems necessary to carry out its
function.
   7.   Expenditures.  To expend budgeted funds or other funds available to the
Commission without prior City Council approval.  City warrants to disburse such
funds shall be issued by appropriate City officials upon written notification
by the Chairperson and Secretary that the Commission has approved the
expenditure.  In the case of an expenditure of budgeted funds, such
notification shall identify the budgetary item under which the expenditure was
made, making reference to the final budget for that fiscal year.
   8.   Contractual Authority.  Only after prior review and written approval by
the City Council, the Commission may enter into any and all contracts or
agreements permitted to cities under law on behalf of the City of Ely, Iowa, to
carry out its functions.
   9.   Financial Reports.  No later than August 1 of each year, or more often
upon the request of the Mayor or City Council, the Commission shall report to
the Mayor all receipts and disbursements of funds for the last fiscal year, or
to-date, in the case of interim reports, including an accounting of all
unexpended funds available to the Commission.  Such reports shall be available
to the public at any time.
   10.   Limitation of Power.  Any proposed action or inaction of the
Commission may be nullified or reversed by the Mayor with the consent of the
City Council after public hearing thereon.
23.04   RECEIPT OF FUNDS.
All receipts of allocated funds or funds from any other source for recreational
purposes within the City shall be deposited with the City Clerk to the
Recreation Fund for disbursement as set forth above.
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01  Department Established      30.07  Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.02  Organization                30.08  Departmental Rules
30.03  Peace Officer Qualifications30.09  Summoning Aid
30.04  Required Training           30.10  Taking Weapons
30.05  Compensation                30.11  Contract Law Enforcement
30.06  Peace Officers Appointed
 
30.01   DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03   PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04   REQUIRED TRAINING.
All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law at
an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment. 
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(IAC, 501-3 and 501-8)
30.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such compensation
as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06   POLICE CHIEF APPOINTED.
The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief subject to the consent of
a majority of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07   POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval of
the Council. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   General.  Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
   2.   Enforce Laws.  Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring
all persons committing any offense before the proper court.
   3.   Writs.  Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to
the Police Chief.
   4.   Accident Reports.  Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to
the State Department of Transportation. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
   5.   Prisoners.  Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
   6.   Assist Officials.  When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
   7.   Investigations.  Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for
the prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
   8.   Record of Arrests.  Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest and the disposition of the
charge.
   9.   Reports.  Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
as well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
   10.   Command.  Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and
be responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment,
and materials of the department.
30.08   DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code of
Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary for
the operation of the department.
30.09   SUMMONING AID.
Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10   TAKING WEAPONS.
Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items that
are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have within
such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
30.11   CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
In lieu of the appointment of a Police Chief by the Mayor as provided by
Section
30.06, the Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other qualified
lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City and in such
event the Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the powers and
duties of the Police Chief as provided herein. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 35
FIRE PROTECTION
35.01   CONTRACT.
Pursuant to Chapter 28E of the Code of Iowa, the City has entered into a
contract agreement with the College-Putnam-Ely Fire Department for fire
protection and prevention within the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.12)
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01  Purpose                    36.05  Notifications
36.02  Definitions                36.06  Police Authority
36.03  Cleanup Required           36.07  Liability
36.04  Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal and cleanup of hazardous
substance spills within the City limits.
36.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control,
identify, analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
   2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual,
imminent, or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance
onto the land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates
an immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
   3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means.  “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
   4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
36.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection, dumping,
spilling, leaking or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the hazardous
substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the environment
or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground
waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied by a
cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition.  The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person.  If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline.  In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup.  If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means.  If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
36.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
   1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
   2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
   3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of,
or loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction or loss.
   4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents
of the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused
by that person.
36.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
   1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing
of a hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources
and the County Sheriff of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as
possible but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous
condition or discovery of the hazardous condition.  The County Sheriff shall
immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources. 
   2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
County Sheriff, which shall then notify the Department of Natural Resources.
36.06   POLICE AUTHORITY.
If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or an
authorized representative may:
   1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
   2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
36.07   LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries, or
losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01  Assault           40.04  Unlawful Assembly
40.02  Harassment        40.05  Failure to Disperse
40.03  Disorderly Conduct
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
   1.   Pain or Injury.  Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
   2.   Threat of Pain or Injury.  Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
An act described in subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances:  (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
No person shall commit harassment.
   1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
      A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal
act, knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person.  As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other. 
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No person shall do any of the following:
   1.   Fighting.  Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place
or in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that
sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1])
   2.   Noise.  Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which causes unreasonable distress to the occupants thereof. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[2])
   3.   Abusive Language.  Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[3])
   4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly.  Without lawful authority or color of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[4])
   5.   False Report of Catastrophe.  By words or action, initiate or circulate
a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such
report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[5])
   6.   Disrespect of Flag.  Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault.  As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[6])
      A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
      B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
      C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
      D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
      E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
      F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
   7.   Obstruct Use of Street.  Without authority or justification, obstruct
any street, sidewalk, highway, or other public way, with the intent to prevent
or hinder its lawful use by others.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[7])
   8.   Funeral or Memorial Service.  Within 1,000 feet of the building or
other location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or
within 1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
      B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction
by another.
      C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession, or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04   UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
It is unlawful for three or more persons to assemble together, with them or any
of them acting in a violent manner, and with intent that they or any of them
will commit a public offense.  No person shall willingly join in or remain part
of an unlawful assembly, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe it is
such.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.2)
40.05   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse. 
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3) 
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01  Distributing Dangerous Substances                     41.09  Antenna and Radio Wires
41.02  False Reports to or Communications with Public Safety 41.10  Barbed Wire and Electric
Entities                                                      Fences
41.03  Providing False Identification Information            41.11  Discharging Weapons
41.04  Refusing to Assist Officer                            41.12  Throwing and Shooting
41.05  Harassment of Public Officers and Employees           41.13  Urinating and Defecating
41.06  Interference with Official Acts                       41.14  Fireworks
41.07  Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control    41.15  Drug Paraphernalia
Device
41.08  Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators                 41.16  Smoking Prohibited
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any corrosive,
caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person delivers such
into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes reasonable precautions
that the substance will not be taken by children or animals from the place
where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
   1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department,
a law enforcement authority or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
   2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or
she is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance. 
   3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required.  No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be a
peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A of
the Code of Iowa, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, or a person
performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the Code of Iowa,
in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the lawful duty or
authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, or person performing bailiff duties, or shall knowingly resist or
obstruct the service or execution by any authorized person of any civil or
criminal process or order of any court.  The terms “resist” and “obstruct” as
used in this section do not include verbal harassment unless the verbal
harassment is accompanied by a present ability and apparent intention to
execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
   2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind or
to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns, or
other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building, including
but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway, doorway, or
window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14   FIREWORKS.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
   1.   Definitions.  For purposes of this section definitions are enumerated
in Section 727.2 of the Code of Iowa, which definitions are incorporated herein
by reference.
   2.   Sales - General Requirements.
      A.   Prior to any person engaging in the sale of consumer fireworks, the
following shall be provided to the City at City Hall:
         (1)   License.  Proof of valid license issued from the State Fire
Marshal.
         (2)   Liability Insurance.  Proof of liability insurance separate from
the building property insurance, specifically showing coverage of fireworks
sales for an aggregate amount of $2,000,000.00.
         (3)   Fire Inspection.  Any property, building, or premises, whether
it be permanent or temporary, intended for the sale of consumer fireworks shall
have an initial fire inspection completed by the Fire Chief prior to engaging
in the sale of consumer fireworks.  The Fire Chief shall cause an annual
inspection to occur meeting the requirements of the National Fire Protection
Code 1124 (2006 edition) and the current fire code adopted by the City of Ely. 
Inspection costs shall be assessed as follows:
            a.   Permanent structure where fireworks are sold - annual
inspection fee of $100.00.
            b.   Temporary or non-brick or mortar building where fireworks are
sold - annual inspection fee of $200.00.
      B.   Dates of Sale.  Consumer fireworks sales shall only be conducted in
accordance with dates and times designated by Section 727.2 of the Code of
Iowa.  It is unlawful to sell consumer fireworks without meeting the
requirements specified in this section, or to sell fireworks outside of the
dates specified.
         (1)   Approved consumer fireworks sales meeting the requirements of
this section shall be allowed from an approved permanent structure or building
between June 1 and July 8 and from December 10 until January 3.
         (2)   Approved consumer fireworks sales meeting the requirements of
this section shall be allowed from an approved temporary structure between June
13 and July 8.
      C.   Safety Requirements.  The following safety requirements shall be
adopted for all locations where consumer fireworks are sold:
         (1)   All transportation, storage, and sales of consumer fireworks
shall conform to the safety standards set forth by the National Fire Protection
Code 1124 (2006 Edition), including (but not limited to) those standards
concerning separation distance requirements and aggregate weight limits.
         (2)   There shall be no more than 1,000 pounds of 1.4G consumer
fireworks on site at any temporary structure sales location.
         (3)   Any permanent structure used primarily for the purpose of
consumer fireworks sales shall be located 35 feet from a property line, public
roadway, alley, or highway; and 70 feet from an inhabited building.
         (4)   Any temporary structure having between 500 and 1,000 pounds of
total aggregate weight of DOT 1.4 class consumer fireworks shall be located 55
feet from a property line, public roadway, alley, or highway; and 110 feet from
an inhabited building. 
         (5)   Smoking, open flame source, or matches shall not be located
within 50 feet where consumer fireworks are sold.  The following exemptions
apply:
            a.   Lighters and matches may be sold as part of a retail business
in commercial structures who engage in other merchandise sales where consumer
fireworks are not the primary business. 
            b.   Locations that engage in consumer fireworks sales as a primary
source of revenue may sell extended lighters so long as lighters are located in
a sealed package and not opened within the store premises.
         (6)   All electrical wiring shall meet NFPA 70 National Electrical
Code.  Permanent structures or buildings used primarily for consumer fireworks
sales shall meet wiring requirements for a hazardous location, including
covered light fixtures to avoid sparks upon failure or damage to lights.
         (7)   Locations shall maintain a 48-inch clear aisle between consumer
fireworks display shelves.
         (8)   Locations shall maintain two approved exits for egress during an
emergency.  All approved exits shall be clearly marked with signage, except
that exit signs shall be illuminated in permanent structures.
         (9)   Consumer fireworks sales shall only be permitted in a single
story at grade building or structure to facilitate easy exiting during an
emergency.
         (10)   Locations shall have a minimum of two 10 pound ABC rated fire
extinguishers mounted in accordance with NFPA 10.  Additional fire
extinguishers shall be placed in locations to prevent travel distance exceeding
75 feet in order to reach a fire extinguisher. 
         (11)   All doors used as service doors outside the view of a clerk
shall be locked to prevent unauthorized persons from entering the building
unnoticed.  If doors are approved exit doors as part of the two approved exits
needed, they shall be operable without special tools, keys, or knowledge. 
Delayed or alarmed egress doors are permitted so long as release is activated
within eight seconds.
         (12)   No persons under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or narcotics,
shall be allowed to remain in the business where consumer fireworks are sold as
a primary business.
         (13)   No more than one conex container or approved explosive magazine
shall be located on site for short-term storage of extra product.  All
containers shall be properly placarded and equipped with tamper proof locking
devices.  It is permitted to place containers in a security fenced area.
         (14)   Individual consumer fireworks devices or opened consumer
fireworks packages shall not be permitted to be displayed.  No open fuses shall
be exposed during storage inside a sales location.
         (15)   Consumer fireworks sales shall only be allowed in areas zoned
for commercial use.
         (16)   Any person engaged in consumer firework sales in any other zone
other than commercial zoned areas shall not be approved for sales within the
City limits.
         (17)   No person shall sell a DOT 1.4 class consumer firework to a
person under the age of 18.
         (18)   Consumer fireworks shall not be sold to an intoxicated person
or to any person whom a reasonable person would believe may be impaired by
other substances.
   3.   Fireworks - Discharging General Requirements.
      A.   No person under the age of 18 shall discharge a DOT 1.4 class
consumer firework without parental supervision.
      B.   A person shall only discharge a consumer fireworks device on real
property he or she owns or on property where consent has been given. 
Novelties, including snakes, sparklers, or caps, may be discharged on a public
place so long as all trash, wrappers, and wires are properly disposed of.
      C.   Consumer fireworks shall not be discharged by persons showing
visible signs of, or determined to be, intoxicated or under the influence of a
drug or narcotic.
      D.   Any person discharging a consumer fireworks device assumes all
responsibility for its operation and the consequences thereof.  No person shall
discharge a consumer fireworks device in a reckless manner or manner likely to
cause death, injury, fire, or property damage.
      E.   No person shall discharge a consumer fireworks device outside the
following dates and hours:
         (1)   June 29 through July 4 from the hours of 12 noon until 10 p.m. 
(Exception:  Discharge hours are extended to 11 p.m. on July 4 only.)
         (2)   December 31 through January 1 from 6 p.m. until 12:30 a.m. 
      F.   It is unlawful to alter, remove, or discharge components of a
consumer fireworks device from its intended method of discharging.
      G.   Sky lantern open flame devices are not permitted to be released
within the City limits, except if tethered by a retrievable rope so long as the
person discharging has control over the sky lantern.
      H.   The City may, upon application in writing, grant a permit for the
display of fireworks on public property by a City agency, fair associations,
amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of individuals approved by
City authorities when such display fireworks display will be handled by a
competent operator.  No permit shall be granted hereunder unless the operator
or sponsoring organization has filed with the City evidence of insurance in the
following amounts:
         (1)   Personal Injury:  $250,000.00 per person.
         (2)   Property Damage:  $50,000.00.
         (3)   Total Exposure:  $1,000,000.00.
   4.   Violations.  All violations of any provisions of this section are
hereby declared simple misdemeanors and/or municipal infractions.  Violations
may be prosecuted as either a misdemeanor criminal offense or a municipal
infraction at the sole discretion of the Fire Chief or peace officer.  Fines
shall be set by resolution of the City Council.  Violations of this chapter
shall be reported to the State Fire Marshal. 
   5.   Exceptions.  This section does not prohibit the sale by a resident,
dealer, manufacturer, or jobber of fireworks that are not prohibited; or the
sale of any kind of fireworks if they are to be shipped out of State; or the
sale or use of blank cartridges for a show or theater, or for signal purposes
in athletic sports or by railroads or trucks for signal purposes, or by a
recognized military organization. This section does not apply to any substance
or composition prepared and sold for medicinal or fumigation purposes.
41.15   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 124.414)
   1.   As used in this section “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment,
products or materials of any kind used or attempted to be used in combination
with a controlled substance, except those items used in combination with the
lawful use of a controlled substance, to knowingly or intentionally and
primarily do any of the following:
      A.   Manufacture a controlled substance.
      B.   Inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
      C.   Test the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled
substance.
      D.   Enhance the effect of a controlled substance.
Drug paraphernalia does not include hypodermic needles or syringes if
manufactured, delivered, sold, or possessed for a lawful purpose.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally
manufacture, deliver, sell, or possess drug paraphernalia.
41.16   SMOKING PROHIBITED.
Smoking and the use of any tobacco product, nicotine product, or electronic
smoking device (ESD), by any person, in any publicly owned buildings and
associated areas, including (but not limited to) publicly owned outdoor parks
or outdoor recreation facilities, are prohibited at all times.  This
prohibition does not apply to the use of prescription medications by the person
to whom the prescription was issued nor to the use of FDA approved gum or
patches designed as, and marketed for, smoking cessation.  Terms are defined as
follows for the purpose of this section:
   1.   “Publicly owned buildings and associated areas” means all areas inside
any publicly owned building including any library, community center, city hall,
council chambers and includes any associated restroom, the area directly around
the building, or parking lot or within 25 feet of any entrances. 
   2.   “Publicly owned outdoor park or outdoor recreational facility” means
any publicly owned outdoor park or facility including any park, playground,
athletic field or complex, skate park, aquatic area, shelter, or trail and
includes any associated restroom or parking lot.
   3.   “Tobacco product” means any cigarette or tobacco product as defined in
Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa.
   4.   “Nicotine product” means any product containing nicotine including
look-a-like products where the original would include tobacco or nicotine
including products that are dissolvable, spit less, snus, or for chewing.
   5.   “Smoking” means inhaling or exhaling from any lighted or heated pipe,
cigar, cigarette, or any other lighted or heated tobacco, plant material,
liquid, oils, nicotine or other chemicals that may be inhaled or exhaled by the
user.
   6.   “Electronic smoking device (ESD)” means any device used to transform
plant material, liquids, oils, nicotine or other chemicals into an aerosol
(aka: vapor) that may be inhaled by users, including, but not limited to: e-
cigarettes, e-pens, e-hookah, mods, and vape pens.
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01  Trespassing                      42.05  Fraud
42.02  Criminal Mischief                42.06  Theft
42.03  Defacing Proclamations or Notices42.07  Other Public Property Offenses
42.04  Unauthorized Entry
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
   1.   Prohibited.  It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
   2.   Definitions.  For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
      A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance,
vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or
privately owned. 
      B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of
the Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of
the Code of Iowa.
      C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
      D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person
owning, leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this
State.
      E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property
owned, leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
      F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
         (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
(2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification after
being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or vacate
therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the agent or
employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by any peace
officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise the use
or maintenance of the property.
(3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect of unduly
interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
(4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing therefrom,
altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein anything animate
or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the owner, lessee, or
person in lawful possession.
(5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property.  This paragraph does not apply to passage
over a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct,
bridge, trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not
been notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
(6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns, leases, or
operates the public utility property.  This paragraph does not apply to passage
over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not been
notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from entering
onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
   3.   Specific Exceptions.  “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
      A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property. 
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
      B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down, or
destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public.  When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8) 
42.06   THEFT.
It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1) 
42.07   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
   1.   
Chapter 21 – Library
      A.   Section
21.10 – Injury to Books or Property
      B.   Section
21.11 – Theft of Library Property
   2.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
      A.   Section
105.07 – Littering Prohibited
   3.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
      A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
      B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
      C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
      D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
      E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
      F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
      G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
   4.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
      A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
      B.   Section
136.14 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
      C.   Section
136.15 – Defacing
      D.   Section
136.16 – Debris on Sidewalks
      E.   Section
136.17 – Merchandise Display
      F.   Section
136.18 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01  Persons Under Legal Age45.03  Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02  Public Consumption or  45.04  Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.
   1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person's employment by a liquor control licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[3])
   2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person's age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from
any liquor control licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
(Ord. 274 - Aug. 18 Supp.)
45.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of
Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine
to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using
devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
      D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a
public or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
   2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine or beer upon
the public streets or highways.  A person shall not use or consume alcoholic
liquor in any public place, except premises covered by a liquor control
license.  A person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or
beer on public school property or while attending any public or private school-
related function.  A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place. 
   3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
   4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that
the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense. 
If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample
of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested.  In
a prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical
test performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation.  The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section
62.01(49) and (50) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04   SOCIAL HOST.
A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
eighteen, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage.  The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
(Ord. 274 - Aug. 18 Supp.)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01  Curfew                46.03  Contributing to Delinquency
46.02  Cigarettes and Tobacco
 
46.01   CURFEW.
The Council has determined that a curfew for minors is necessary to promote the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the City and specifically
to reinforce the primary authority and responsibility of adults responsible for
minors; to protect the public from the illegal acts of minors committed after
the curfew hour; and to protect minors from improper influences and criminal
activity that prevail in public places after the curfew hour.
   1.   Definitions.  In this chapter:
      A.   “Curfew hours” means 10:00 p.m. until 5:00 a.m.
      B.   “Emergency” means an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action.  The term includes, but is not
limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any
situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss
of life.
      C.   “Establishment” means any privately owned place of business operated
for a profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any
place of amusement or entertainment.
      D.   “Guardian” means:
         (1)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      E.   “Minor” means any person under age 17 years of age.
      F.   “Operator” means any individual, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation operating, managing, or conducting any establishment.  The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
      G.   “Parent” means a person who is:
         (1)   A biological parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (2)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      H.   “Public place” means any place to which the public or a substantial
group of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets,
highways, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office
buildings, transport facilities, and shops.
      I.   “Remain” means to:
         (1)   Linger or stay; or
         (2)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      J.   “Serious bodily injury” means bodily injury that creates a
substantial risk of death or that causes death, serious permanent
disfigurement, or protracted loss of impairment of the function of any bodily
member or organ.
   2.   Offenses. 
      A.   A minor commits an offense if the minor remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the City during curfew hours.
      B.   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if they knowingly
permit, or by insufficient control allow, the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the City during curfew
hours.
      C.   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if such person knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
3.   Defenses.  It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the
minor was:
      A.   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian.
      B.   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop.
      C.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel.
      D.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop.
      E.   Involved in an emergency.
      F.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence.
      G.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the City, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home without any detour or stop, an official school, religious, or
other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the City, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor.
      H.   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly.
      I.   Married or had been married.
It is a defense to prosecution under subsection 2© of this section that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
4.   Enforcement. 
      A.   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the
public place.  The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense
under subsection 3 is present.
      B.   A minor who is in violation of this section shall be reunited with
the minor’s parent or guardian or custodian or other adult taking the place of
the parent or shall be taken home by the police officers of the City.
   5.   Penalty, Municipal Infraction.  The violation of this section shall be
a municipal infraction with penalties not to exceed those contained in this
Code of Ordinances.
46.02   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.  Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by a person under 18 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if said person possesses the tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part of the person’s
employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a valid permit
under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for sale or sells
cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.03   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age to
commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01  Purpose         47.06  Swimming
47.02  Definitions     47.07  Animal Control
47.03  Park Hours      47.08  Vehicles Restricted
47.04  Glass Containers47.09  Vehicles on Community Center Grounds Prohibited
47.05  Littering
 
47.01   PURPOSE.
This chapter applies to all parks and park areas of the City.
47.02   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   “Park” means any grounds owned or leased by the City and set apart as
parks, recreational facilities, or similar purposes within the City and all
buildings and fixtures on said grounds.
   2.   “Vehicle” means any motor driven apparatus or trailers of any type.
47.03   PARK HOURS.
All parks shall be closed between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of each
day.  No person other than a municipal employee on duty, law enforcement
officer, or other person authorized by written permission of the Parks and
Recreation Commission shall be present on park grounds when closed.  This
section does not apply for special community or civic events approved by the
City Council or Parks and Recreation Commission.
47.04   GLASS CONTAINERS.
No person shall bring or use glass containers on the property of any City park
or park area.
47.05   LITTERING.
No person shall place, deposit or throw any waste, refuse, litter or similar
substance or item in any area or receptacle except those provided for that
purpose.
47.06   SWIMMING.
No person shall enter the water for any purpose including wading, swimming,
boating, fishing, use of flotation devices or any other activity in any pond,
water detention structure, storm water management facility, or any other
structure, facility or body of water located in any park.  This section does
not apply to municipal swimming pools.
47.07   ANIMAL CONTROL.
   1.   No animal, except properly trained service dogs, shall be allowed in
any pavilion, playground, or ballfield in a City park.
   2.   No animal shall be allowed in any park unless it is attached to a leash
not more than six feet in length and having sufficient strength to restrain the
animal, and the leash must be held by a person capable of restraining said
animal.
   3.   All excrement or droppings from an animal in a public park shall be
immediately cleaned up by the person in charge of the animal and disposed of in
a sanitary manner.
47.08   VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
Operation of vehicles in parks is restricted to established drives, roadways
and parking areas; except official law enforcement vehicles, City vehicles used
for maintenance of the park grounds, or other vehicles approved in writing by
the Parks and Recreation Commission.
47.09   VEHICLES ON COMMUNITY CENTER GROUNDS PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided by rules and regulations of the Parks and
Recreation Commission, no person shall operate a motorized recreational vehicle
or any other type of motorized vehicle or motorized equipment upon any part of
the Ely Community Center grounds lying southeasterly of Rowley Street and
northwesterly of State Street in the City as provided herein.
   1.   Prohibited Vehicles Defined.  Prohibited vehicles shall include but are
not limited to automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, snowmobiles and all-terrain
type vehicles.
   2.   Excepted Areas.  The prohibition stated herein shall not apply to
designated parking areas.
   3.   City Vehicles.  The prohibition stated herein shall not apply to City-
owned vehicles and equipment, vehicles and equipment operated by City
construction or maintenance personnel, vehicles and equipment operated by
construction or maintenance contractors for the City, or vehicles and equipment
specifically authorized by the City Council.
   4.   Models.  Motorized model airplanes and model cars shall not be defined
as prohibited vehicles.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01  Definition of Nuisance50.05  Nuisance Abatement
50.02  Nuisances Enumerated  50.06  Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03  Other Conditions      50.07  Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04  Nuisances Prohibited
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
   1.   Offensive Smells.  Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance.  Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River.  Obstructing or impeding without
legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water.
   4.   Water Pollution.  Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways.  Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
   6.   Billboards.  Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof.  (See also Section
62.06)
   7.   Storing of Flammable Junk.  Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction.  (See also
Chapter 51)
   8.   Air Pollution.  Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
   9.   Weeds, Brush.  Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other
vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
   10.   Dutch Elm Disease.  Trees infected with Dutch elm disease.  (See also
Chapter 151)
   11.   Airport Air Space.  Any object or structure hereafter erected within
1,000 feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or
landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-
off and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or
enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   12.   Houses of Ill Fame.  Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting or breaches of the peace are carried on
or permitted to the disturbance of others.
50.03   OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
   1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
   2.   Dangerous Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
   3.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
   4.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
50.04   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance, public
or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.07.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner.  The notice to abate shall
contain: † 3
      A.   Description of Nuisance.  A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
      B.   Location of Nuisance.  The location of the nuisance.
      C.   Acts Necessary to Abate.  A statement of the act or acts necessary
to abate the nuisance.
      D.   Reasonable Time.  A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      E.   Assessment of City Costs.  A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the
property owner.
   2.   Method of Service.  The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or
sent by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   3.   Request for Hearing.  Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists.  A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered.  The hearing will be before the
Council at a time and place fixed by the Council.  The findings of the Council
shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered
abated within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
   4.   Abatement in Emergency.  If it is determined that an emergency exists
by reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City
may perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice.  The City shall assess the costs as provided in subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
subsection 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   5.   Abatement by City.  If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred. 
The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   6.   Collection of Costs.  The Clerk shall send a statement of the total
expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to
abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not
been paid within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County
Treasurer and such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner
as, general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement.  If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the
assessment to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same
manner and with the same interest rates provided for assessments against
benefited property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
   8.   Failure to Abate.  Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  †EDITOR’S NOTE:  A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances.  Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
3 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist.  If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs.  Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01  Definitions                      51.04  Exceptions
51.02  Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited51.05  Notice to Abate
51.03  Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or appliances; iron, steel
or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tinware,
plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware.  Neatly stacked
firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
   2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the
County Treasurer or unlicensed and having any of the following characteristics:
      A.   Broken Glass.  Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield,
window, headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
      B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part.  Any vehicle with a broken, loose,
or missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel or trunk lid.
      C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects.  Any vehicle that has
become the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
      D.   Flammable Fuel.  Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
      E.   Inoperable.  Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
      F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition.  Any other vehicle that, because of
its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to
the public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
   3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa.  If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04   EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within:
   1.   Structure.  A garage or other enclosed structure; or
   2.   Salvage Yard.  An auto salvage yard or junk yard lawfully operated
within the City.
51.05   NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section
51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
MOWING OF PROPERTIES
 
52.01  Requirements52.03  Penalty
52.02  Exceptions  52.04  Method of Notice and Billing
 
52.01   REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Any developed residential property within the City, whether vacant or
occupied, is required to be mowed any time the vegetation reaches a height of
more than six inches during the months of April, May, June, July, August,
September, and October of each year.  Vegetation shall be measured from the
ground to the tip of the longest blade.
   2.   Any undeveloped residential property within the City is required to be
mowed and maintained a minimum of at least one time per month during the months
of May, June, July, August, September, and October of each year.
   3.   Any business and industrial areas within the City, whether vacant or
occupied, are required to be mowed any time the vegetation reaches a height of
more than six inches during the months of April, May, June, July, August,
September, and October of each year.  Vegetation shall be measured from the
ground to the tip of the longest blade.
52.02   EXCEPTIONS.
   1.   Vegetable and/or flower gardens, purposefully planted, shall be
permitted if they are maintained.
   2.   Wood perennials, purposefully planted, shall be permitted if they are
planted and maintained.
   3.   Prairie grass areas, wild flower planning areas, natural reserves and
preserve areas, urban wood lots, wild life refuge and conservation areas,
wetlands and natural water ways, all as recognized and identified by the City
Council, a governmental agency, or a respective private conservation
organization.
52.03   PENALTY.
Any property which is not mowed as set out above may be mowed by the City or
its agents, and a charge of $75.00 per hour for such mowing, plus a surcharge
of $100.00, will be charged to the property owner.  Any property owners who
fail to mow their properties, thus allowing the same to be mowed by the City or
its agents, and who do not provide payment for the mowing as required, will be
assessed by the City for such costs, which will be collected in the same manner
as general property taxes.
52.04   METHOD OF NOTICE AND BILLING.
Annual posting of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall serve as general
notice to all property owners.  In addition, the City shall give written notice
of a first violation to the property owner in each calendar year.  Notice shall
give the property owner one week (seven days) to mow the property, and failure
to comply shall result in the City mowing the property as provided in Section
52.03 of this chapter.  The City shall not be required to give more than one
written notice to a property owner in a calendar year.  Any billings for mowing
done by the City or its agents are to be sent by regular mail and shall become
delinquent 30 days after mailing.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01  Definitions                 55.09  Unhealthful or Unsanitary Conditions
55.02  Animal Neglect              55.10  Rabies Vaccination
55.03  Livestock Neglect           55.11  Owner’s Duty
55.04  Abandonment of Cats and Dogs55.12  Confinement
55.05  Livestock                   55.13  At Large: Impoundment
55.06  At Large Prohibited         55.14  Disposition of Animals
55.07  Damage or Interference      55.15  Pet Awards Prohibited
55.08  Annoyance or Disturbance
 
55.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium
including but not limited to print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag or articulation.
   2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
   3.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the
control of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in
a veterinary hospital or kennel.
   4.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
      A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
      B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
      C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
      D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
   5.   “Fair” means any of the following:
      A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
      C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
   6.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in
Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
   7.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas and emus; farm deer as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa; or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
   8.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering or harboring an
animal.
   9.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
55.02   ANIMAL NEGLECT.
It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines, in any place, an animal,
excluding livestock, to fail to supply the animal during confinement with a
sufficient quantity of food or water, or to fail to provide a confined dog or
cat with adequate shelter, or to torture, deprive of necessary sustenance,
mutilate, beat, or kill such animal by any means that causes unjustified pain,
distress or suffering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
55.03   LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place to
fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04   ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
A person who has ownership or custody of a cat or dog shall not abandon the cat
or dog, except the person may deliver the cat or dog to another person who will
accept ownership and custody or the person may deliver the cat or dog to an
animal shelter or pound.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
55.05   LIVESTOCK.
It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by written
consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations.
55.06   AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.07   DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.08   ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles or other vehicles.
55.09   UNHEALTHFUL OR UNSANITARY CONDITIONS.
   1.   An owner shall keep all structures, pens, coops, or yards wherein
animals are confined clean, devoid of vermin, and free of odors arising from
feces.
   2.   No owner or walker of any animal shall permit the animal to discharge
feces upon any public or private property, other than the property of the owner
of the animal.  The owner or walker shall be deemed to permit the animal’s
discharge of the feces if the owner does not immediately thereafter take steps
to remove and clean up the feces from the property.
   3.   All feces removed as aforesaid shall be placed in an airtight container
until it is removed pursuant to refuse collection procedures, or otherwise
disposed of in a sanitary manner.
   4.   An owner may, as an alternative to subsection 3 above, collect the
feces and turn it under the surface of the owner’s soil in any manner that
prevents odor or collection of vermin.
55.10   RABIES VACCINATION.
Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal.  It is
unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession, six
months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies.  Dogs kept
in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are not
subject to these vaccination requirements.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.11   OWNER’S DUTY.
It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten or
attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official.  It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.12   CONFINEMENT.
If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs.  If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after 10 days the board may
humanely destroy the animal.  If such animal is returned to its owner, the
owner shall pay the cost of impoundment.  This section does not apply if a
police service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in
the performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.13   AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded, or at the discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served a
summons to appear before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
55.14   DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two days after impoundment, if the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal.  Impounded animals may be recovered by
the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if an unvaccinated dog, by
having it immediately vaccinated.  If the owner fails to redeem the animal
within seven days from the date that the notice is mailed, or if the owner
cannot be located within seven days, the animal shall be disposed of in
accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37, 351.41)
55.15   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
   1.   Prohibition.  It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
      A.   A prize for participating in a game.
      B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
      C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
      D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care or disposition of the pet.
   2.   Exceptions.  This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
      B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
CHAPTER 56
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
 
56.01  Definitions                  56.03  Keeping of Vicious Animals
                                     Prohibited
56.02  Keeping of Dangerous Animals 56.04  Seizure, Impoundment and
Prohibited                           Disposition
 
56.01    DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Dangerous animal” means the following animals: † 4
      A.   The bull terrier breed of dog;
      B.   The Staffordshire bull terrier breed;
      C.   The American Staffordshire terrier breed;
      D.   The American pit bull terrier breed;
      E.   Dogs of mixed breed or other breeds which are known as pit bulls,
pit bulldogs or pit bull terriers;
   2.   “Vicious animal” means any animal, except for a dangerous animal as
listed above, that has attacked, bitten or clawed a person while running at
large and the attack was unprovoked, or any animal that has exhibited vicious
tendencies in present or past conduct, including such that said animal:  (i)
has bitten or clawed a person or persons on two separate occasions within a 12-
month period; or (ii) did bite or claw once causing injuries above the
shoulders of a person; or (iii) could not be controlled or restrained by the
owner at the time of the attack to prevent the occurrence; or (iv) has attacked
any domestic animal or fowl on three separate occasions within a 12-month
period.
 
Notes
  †EDITOR’S NOTE:  Certain other dangerous animals, listed in Chapter 717F.1,
4 paragraph 5a, of the Code of Iowa, are specifically prohibited and regulated by
  the Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship. 
56.02    KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor any dangerous animal as a pet, or act
as a temporary custodian for such animal, or keep, shelter or harbor such
animal for any purpose or in any capacity within the City.
56.03    KEEPING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor for any reason within the City a
vicious animal except in the following circumstances:
   1.   Animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency.
   2.   The keeping of guard dogs; however, guard dogs must be kept within a
structure or fixed enclosure at all times, and any guard dog found at large may
be processed as a vicious animal pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. 
Any premises guarded by a guard dog shall be prominently posted with a sign
containing the wording “Guard Dog,” “Vicious Dog” or words of similar import,
and the owner of such premises shall inform the Mayor or peace officer that a
guard dog is on duty at said premises.
56.04    SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION.
   1.   In the event that a dangerous animal or vicious animal is found at
large and unattended upon public property, park property, public right-of-way
or the property of someone other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard to
persons or property, such animal may, in the discretion of the Mayor or peace
officer, be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured.  The City shall be
under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous animal or
vicious animal found at large, nor shall it have a duty to notify the owner of
such animal prior to its destruction.
   2.   Upon the complaint of any individual that a person is keeping,
sheltering or harboring a dangerous animal or vicious animal on premises in the
City, the Mayor or peace officer shall cause the matter to be investigated and
if after investigation, the facts indicate that the person named in the
complaint is keeping, sheltering or harboring a dangerous or vicious animal in
the City, the Mayor or peace officer shall order the person named in the
complaint to safely remove such animal from the City or destroy the animal
within three days of the receipt of such an order.  Such order shall be
contained in a notice to remove the dangerous or vicious animal, which notice
shall be given in writing to the person keeping, sheltering, or harboring the
dangerous animal or vicious animal, and shall be served personally or by
certified mail.  Such order and notice to remove the dangerous animal or
vicious animal shall not be required where such animal has previously caused
serious physical harm or death to any person, in which case the Mayor or peace
officer shall cause the animal to be immediately seized and impounded or killed
if seizure and impoundment are not possible without risk of serious physical
harm or death to any person.
   3.   The order to remove a dangerous animal or vicious animal issued by the
Mayor or peace officer may be appealed to the Council.  In order to appeal such
order, written notice of appeal must be filed with the Clerk within three days
after receipt of the order contained in the notice to remove the dangerous or
vicious animal.  Failure to file such written notice of appeal shall constitute
a waiver of the right to appeal the order of the Mayor or peace officer.
   4.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and shall
be delivered personally or by certified mail to the Clerk.  The hearing of such
appeal shall be scheduled within seven days of the receipt of the notice of
appeal.  The hearing may be continued for good cause.  After such hearing, the
Council may affirm or reverse the order of the Mayor or peace officer.  Such
determination shall be contained in a written decision and shall be filed with
the Clerk within three days after the hearing or any continued session thereof.
   5.   If the Council affirms the action of the Mayor or peace officer, the
Council shall order in its written decision that the person owning, sheltering,
harboring or keeping such dangerous or vicious animal remove such animal from
the City or destroy it.  The decision and order shall immediately be served
upon the person against whom rendered in the same manner as the notice of
removal.  If the original order of the Mayor or peace officer is not appealed
and is not complied with within three days or the order of the Council after
appeal is not complied with within three days of its issuance, the Mayor or
peace officer is authorized to seize, impound or destroy such dangerous or
vicious animal.  Failure to comply with an order of the Mayor or peace officer
issued pursuant to this chapter and not appealed (or of the Council after
appeal) constitutes a simple misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 57
URBAN CHICKENS
 
57.01  Definitions      57.07  Predators, Rodents, Insects and Parasites
57.02  Permit for Urban 57.08  Chickens at Large and Injury Caused by Other
Chickens                 Animals
57.03  General          57.09  Feed and Water
Requirements
57.04  Chicken          57.10  Storage and Removal of Feces and Waste
Requirements
57.05  Site Requirements57.11  Nuisances
57.06  Enclosure
Requirements
 
57.01   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   “Chicken” means a member of the subspecies Gallus gallus domesticus, a
domesticated fowl.
   2.   “Coop” means a cage, enclosure, or structure used for housing and
protecting chickens from weather and predators.
   3.   “Single-family dwelling” means any building that contains only one
dwelling unit used, intended, rented, leased, let or hired to be occupied for
residential purposes.
   4.   “Tractor” means a cage, structure, or similar enclosure capable of
movement used for housing and protecting chickens from weather and predators.
   5.   “Urban chicken” means a chicken kept on a tract of land pursuant to a
permit issued under the terms of this chapter.
57.02   PERMIT FOR URBAN CHICKENS.
   1.   Permit Required. No person shall raise, harbor or keep chickens on any
land not zoned “A-1 Agricultural” within the City without a valid permit issued
by the Mayor under the provisions of this chapter.
   2.   Requirements.  The Mayor shall issue a permit if the following
requirements have been met:
      A.   The property for which the permit is sought has passed inspection by
the Mayor.
      B.   The fee has been paid.
      C.   There are no nuisance conditions, or unresolved violations of
nuisance ordinance, on the property.
      D.   The parcel of land for which the permit is sought contains only one
single-family dwelling which is occupied and used as such by the applicant/
permittee.
      E.   The applicant has provided written verification of the consent of
the owner of the parcel of land for which the permit is sought, if the
applicant is not the owner, and is instead tenant, lessee, or otherwise
authorized to reside at and use the property.
      F.   The applicant has provided verification they successfully completed
an approved class in raising chickens in an urban, or suburban, setting.  The
City Clerk/Administrator shall maintain a current list of approved classes.
      G.   The application is in compliance with all other conditions and
prerequisites set out in this chapter.
      H.   Applicant has paid the permit fee of $10.00.
   3.   Terms of Permit.  The permit shall contain, and permittee shall agree
to adhere, to the following:
      A.   The permittee shall follow this Code of Ordinances and State law
regarding animal care.
      B.   The permittee grants the City the right to inspect the coop and pen
with due notice.
      C.   The permit is a limited license for the specific activity and person
named in the permit, and no vested zoning rights arise from the permit being
issued.  The permit is limited to the party to whom it is issued, and does not
run with the land.
      D.   The permit will be permanent unless revoked pursuant to subsection 4
of this section.
   4.   Suspension or Revocation of Permit.  The permit may be suspended or
revoked by the Mayor upon hearing and finding evidence that the permittee has
violated the conditions of the permit or the terms of this chapter; or made a
false statement or representation on the application form.  All chickens must
be removed upon revocation of the permit.  The permit fee will not be refunded.
57.03   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Non-Commercial Use Only.  Permit holder shall not engage in the
breeding of chickens or fertilizer production for commercial purposes.
   2.   Single-Family Residential.  Permits will only be granted for parcels
with one single-family residential unit.  Permits will not be granted for any
parcel with more than one residential unit located upon the parcel.
   3.   Private Restrictions Take Precedence.  Private restrictions on the use
of the property shall remain enforceable and shall supersede the terms of this
chapter and any permit issued.  The private restrictions include, but are not
limited to: deed restrictions, condominium restrictions, neighborhood
association bylaws, covenants and restrictions, and rental agreements.
   4.   Rental Property.  The owner of the parcel must concur with any
application for urban chickens.  Tenants must obtain the written permission
from the landlord/property owner to keep chickens or install a coop.
   5.   Slaughter of Chickens.  Any slaughter of chickens not regulated by
federal or State law, or regulated otherwise, shall be performed in a humane
manner and shall not be done in open view to any public area or adjacent to
property owned by another.
   6.   Dead Chickens.  Other than slaughtered chickens, the owner shall
dispose of dead chickens in a sanitary manner.  Composting does not qualify as
proper disposal.
57.04   CHICKEN REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Hens Only.  Only female chickens (hens) are allowed.  Male chickens
(roosters) are not allowed and shall be removed immediately by the owner.
   2.   No More than Six Allowed.  No more than six chickens shall be allowed
on any parcel.
57.05   SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Enclosures Required.  Chickens must be kept in an enclosure or fenced
area at all times.  Chickens shall be secured within a coop or chicken tractor
during non-daylight hours.
   2.   Location and Separation Distances. 
      A.   Coops, including tractors, must be at least 10 feet from any
property lines.
      B.   Coops must be at least five feet from the principal use residential
structure on the applicant’s property.
      C.   Coops must be in the rear yard of the property; as “rear yard” is
defined in the Zoning Ordinance.
57.06   ENCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Enclosures, coops and tractors must be kept in clean, dry, odor free,
neat and sanitary conditions at all times.
   2.   Coops and tractors shall be well maintained.
   3.   Coops and tractors must provide adequate ventilation, sun and shade.
   4.   Coops and tractors shall be constructed, maintained and repaired to
prevent entry by rodents, wild birds, predators, dogs and cats.
   5.   Coops and tractors shall be built of solid materials such as wood,
metal or plastic. 
   6.   Coops and tractors shall be at least 18 inches in height.
   7.   Coops and tractors shall be designed to provide safe and healthy living
conditions for the chickens which reside therein, with a minimum of 16 square
feet.  Maximum coop size is 96 square feet.  Coops must allow a minimum of four
square feet per chicken.
   8.   Coops and tractors shall be enclosed on all sides and shall have a roof
and at least one door.  Access doors must be able to be shut and locked at
night.  Opening windows, vents or doors must be covered with predator and bird
proof wire of less than one-inch openings.
   9.   Materials used for coops or tractors shall be uniform of each element
of the structure that the walls are made of the same material, the roof has the
same shingles or covering, and any windows or openings are constructed using
the same materials.  The use of scrap, waste board, sheet metal or similar
materials is prohibited.
   10.   Well Drained.  Enclosures, coops and tractors must be well drained to
prevent accumulations of moisture; accumulations of moisture shall be avoided
and removed.
   11.   Fences.  Fences that serve as enclosures for chickens shall consist of
sturdy wire fencing of a type customarily designed for and used to enclose
chickens and shall be constructed in a sturdy manner so as to contain the
chickens and prevent entry by predators, dogs and cats. 
57.07   PREDATORS, RODENTS, INSECTS AND PARASITES.
The permittee shall take necessary action to reduce the attraction of predators
and rodents, and the potential for infestation by insects and parasites. 
Chickens found to be infested with insects or parasites that may result in
unhealthy conditions to human habitation shall be removed by the owner and may
be removed by the Mayor at the owner’s expense.
57.08   CHICKENS AT LARGE AND INJURY CAUSED BY OTHER ANIMALS.
   1.   At Large Prohibited.  Permittee shall not allow chickens to roam off
the parcel of land covered by the permit.  Any chicken found off the permitted
property shall be considered to be “at-large” and subject to the penalties and
provisions of this Code of Ordinance for at-large animals.
   2.   Dangerous or Vicious Designation.  Injury or death to a chicken that is
caused by a dog, cat or other domesticated animal shall not be considered
sufficient grounds, in and of itself, to designate the animal as dangerous or
vicious pursuant to
Chapter 56 of this Code of Ordinances.
   3.   City not Liable.  The City shall not be liable for injury or death of
chickens caused by dogs, cats, or other animals domestic or wild, regardless of
whether or not licensed by the City.
57.09   FEED AND WATER.
Chickens shall be provided with access to feed and clean water at all times. 
All feed and other items associated with keeping chickens shall be protected in
a manner to prevent rodents, wild birds, and predators from coming into contact
with them.
57.10   STORAGE AND REMOVAL OF FECES AND WASTE.
 
   1.   Feces and waste shall be removed from enclosures, coops and tractors at
least once per week. 
   2.   Feces and waste may be stored on the permittees property.  Feces and
waste must be stored in a fully enclosed unit with a roof or lid.  The storage
unit may allow sunlight and movement of air so the materials dry, but must be
designed, used and maintained in such a manner as to keep the material fully
contained so that it does not blow or otherwise erode onto other properties. 
When stored, feces and waste must be stored in a manner to not attract flies,
rodents or other vermin.
   3.   Feces and waste may be used as fertilizer on the permitted property
subject to being turned in to the soil completely immediately upon application
and there is no noxious odor.
57.11   NUISANCES.
Any violation of this chapter that constitutes a health hazard or that
interferes with the use or enjoyment of neighboring property is a nuisance,
subject to sanctions and abatement as set out in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01  Title                         60.05  Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02  Definitions                   60.06  Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03  Administration and Enforcement60.07  Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04  Power to Direct Traffic       60.08  Parades Regulated
 
60.01   TITLE.
Chapters 60 through 70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the
“Ely Traffic Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code.”)
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference.  Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
   1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway when 50 percent or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300
feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business.
   2.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   3.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   4.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
   5.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
   6.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   7.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
   8.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   9.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in
the business, school, or residence districts.
   10.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   11.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or
alley.
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the peace officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the Fire
Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws.  In the event of an
emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 & 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation.  A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle.  A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08   PARADES REGULATED.
No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
   1.   “Parade” Defined.  “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or
vehicles organized for marching or moving on the streets in an organized
fashion or manner or any march or procession of persons or vehicles represented
or advertised to the public as a parade.
   2.   Permit Required.  No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining
a written permit from the Mayor.  Such permit shall state the time and date for
the parade to be held and the streets or general route therefor.  Such written
permit granted to the person organizing or sponsoring the parade shall be
permission for all participants therein to parade when such participants have
been invited by the permittee to participate therein.    No fee shall be
required for such permit.
   3.   Parade Not a Street Obstruction.  Any parade for which a permit has
been issued as herein required, and the persons lawfully participating therein,
shall not be deemed an obstruction of the streets notwithstanding the
provisions of any other ordinance to the contrary.
   4.   Control by Police and Firefighters.  Persons participating in any
parade shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in the
performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01  Installation 61.04  Standards
61.02  Crosswalks   61.05  Compliance
61.03  Traffic Lanes
 
61.01   INSTALLATION.
The Mayor shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control devices when
and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or emergency or
temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency or temporary
condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or warn
traffic.  The Mayor shall keep a record of all such traffic control devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02   CROSSWALKS.
The Mayor is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic control
devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such other places
as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.03   TRAFFIC LANES.
The Mayor is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at
such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this Traffic Code. 
Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the operator of
any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the boundaries of any
such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making
a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] & 321.255)
61.04   STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05   COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01  Violation of Regulations62.04  Clinging to Vehicle
62.02  Play Streets Designated 62.05  Quiet Zones
62.03  Vehicles on Sidewalks   62.06  Obstructing View at Intersections
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section.  These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
   1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
   2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
   3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
   4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
   5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
   6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
   7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
   8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
   9.   Section 321.91 – Penalty for abandonment.
   10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
   11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
   12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
   13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
   14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed.
   15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicles with expired license.
   16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits.
   17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged
fourteen through seventeen.
   18.   Section 321.193 – Restricted licenses.
   19.   Section 321.194 – Special minor’s licenses.
   20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order.
   21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card.
   22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
   23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain cigarettes or tobacco
products.
   24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified.
   25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
   26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
   27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
   28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
   29.   Section 321.223 – License inspected.
   30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
   31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
   32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles.
   33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
   34.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
   35.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
   36.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
   37.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs or signals;
unlawful possession.
   38.   Section 321.262 – Damage to vehicle.
   39.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid.
   40.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
   41.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
   42.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
   43.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   44.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while
driving; text-messaging.
   45.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
   46.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
   47.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
   48.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
   49.   Section 321.284 – Open container; drivers.
   50.   Section 321.284A – Open container; passengers.
   51.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
   52.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
   53.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
   54.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
   55.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
   56.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
   57.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
   58.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
   59.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
   60.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
   61.   Section 321.308 – Motor trucks and towed vehicles; distance
requirements.
   62.   Section 321.309 – Towing; convoys; drawbars.
   63.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
   64.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
   65.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
   66.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
   67.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
   68.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
   69.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
   70.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
   71.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
   72.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
   73.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
   74.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
   75.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
   76.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
   77.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
   78.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
   79.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
   80.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
   81.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
   82.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers approaching blind persons.
   83.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
   84.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   85.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
   86.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
   87.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
   88.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
   89.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
   90.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
   91.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
   92.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
   93.   Section 321.364 – Vehicles shipping food; preventing contamination by
hazardous material.
   94.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
   95.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
   96.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
   97.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
   98.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
   99.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
   100.   Section 321.372 – School buses.
   101.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
   102.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
   103.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
   104.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
   105.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
   106.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
   107.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   108.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
   109.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
   110.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
   111.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
   112.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
   113.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
   114.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
   115.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
   116.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
   117.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
   118.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
   119.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
   120.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
   121.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
   122.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
   123.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
   124.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
   125.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
   126.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
   127.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
   128.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
   129.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
   130.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front.
   131.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
   132.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
   133.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
   134.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
   135.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, and bells prohibited.
   136.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
   137.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
   138.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
   139.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
   140.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
   141.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
   142.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
   143.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
   144.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
   145.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
   146.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
   147.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety regulations.
   148.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
   149.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation.
   150.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
   151.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
   152.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles; permits.
   153.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
   154.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
   155.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
   156.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
   157.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
   158.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight.
   159.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
   160.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
The Mayor shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play
street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same.  Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation.  No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself
or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets.  Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01  General                            63.04  Special Speed Zones
63.02  State Code Speed Limits            63.05  Minimum Speed
63.03  Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots
 
63.01   GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
   1.   Business District – 20 miles per hour.
   2.   Residence or School District – 25 miles per hour.
   3.   Suburban District – 45 miles per hour.
63.03   PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
A speed in excess of 15 miles per hour in any public park, cemetery, or parking
lot, unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location.  The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
   1.   Special 25 MPH Speed Zones.  A speed in excess of 25 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Vavra Drive from State Street to the northwest end of Vavra Drive.
      B.   Poplar Street from Dows Street to the south end of Poplar Street.
      C.   Broadview Court from Dows Street to Dows Street.
      D.   Fuhrmeister Street from Main Street to State Street.
      E.   Rowley Street from Main Street to State Street.
      F.   Main Street from Fuhrmeister Street to Banner Valley Road.
      G.   Walker Street from Fuhrmeister Street to Rowley Street.
      H.   Hillcrest Street from Dows Street to the end of Hillcrest Street.
      I.   Highland Road from Hillcrest Street to the end of Highland Road.
      J.   Banner Valley Road from Main Street to the corporate limits.
      K.   Vista Road from State Street to the west corporate limits.
      L.   Dows Street from Main Street to Jappa Road.
      M.   Jappa Road from Dows Street to 200 feet north of Rogers Creek Road.
      N.   Jappa Road from Dows Street to the north City limits for northbound
traffic.
      O.   Rogers Creek Road from Jappa Road to the east side of the bridge
over Rogers Creek; 250 feet east of the west property line of Outlot A,
Meadowbrook Addition, City of Ely, Iowa.
   2.   Special30MPH Speed Zones.  A speed in excess of 30 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   State Street from Traer Street to Rock Island Drive.
   3.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones.  A speed in excess of 35 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   Jappa Road from 200 feet north of Rogers Creek Road to the north
corporate limits.
      B.   State Street from Traer Street to the a point 1,500 feet south of
the north corporate limits.
      C.   State Street from south corporate limits to Rock Island Drive.
   4.   Special 45 MPH Speed Zones.  A speed in excess of 45 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
      A.   State Street from a point 1,500 feet south of the north corporate
limits to the north corporate limits.
63.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01  Turning at Intersections64.02  U-Turns
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
   1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection.  A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
The Mayor may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent
to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions require,
that a different course from that specified above be traveled by vehicles
turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed, no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
64.02   U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the business district, at the following
designated intersections and at intersections where there are automatic traffic
signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
   1.   At any intersection on State Street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01  Through Streets            65.05  Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.02  Stop Required              65.06  Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.03  Four-Way Stop Intersections65.07  Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks
65.04  Yield Required
 
65.01   THROUGH STREETS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop, unless a yield is permitted by this
chapter, before entering an intersection with the following designated through
streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   State Street from Fuhrmeister Street to Rowley Street.
   2.   Dows Street from State Street to the Rogers Creek Road.
   3.   Banner Valley Road from westerly beginning of street to east City
limits.
65.02   STOP REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Rowley Street.  Vehicles traveling east on Rowley Street shall stop at
Main Street.
   2.   Walker Street.  Vehicles traveling south on Walker Street shall stop at
Rowley Street.
   3.   Walker Street.  Vehicles traveling north on Walker Street shall stop at
Fuhrmeister Street.
   4.   Traer Street.  Vehicles traveling east on Traer Street shall stop at
Main Street.
   5.   Dows Street.  Vehicles traveling on Dows Street shall stop at Jappa
Road.
   6.   Dows Street.  Vehicles traveling north on Dows Street shall stop at
Rogers Creek Road.
   7.   Rogers Creek Road.  Vehicles traveling west on Rogers Creek Road shall
stop at Jappa Road.
   8.   Banner Valley Road.  Vehicles traveling on Banner Valley Road shall
stop at Pacific Street.
   9.   Main Street.  Vehicles traveling on Main Street shall stop at Rowley
Street.
   10.   Highland Road.  Vehicles traveling west on Highland Road shall stop at
Hillcrest Street.
   11.   Sunrise Drive.  Vehicles traveling southwest on Sunrise Drive shall
stop at Fieldcrest Lane.
   12.   Fieldcrest Lane.  Vehicles traveling southwest on Fieldcrest Lane
shall stop at Ridgeview Drive.
   13.   Fieldcrest Lane.  Vehicles traveling northeast on Fieldcrest Lane
shall stop at Sunrise Drive.
   14.   Eastland Lane.  Vehicles traveling east on Eastland Lane shall stop at
Sunrise Drive.
   15.   Eastland Lane.  Vehicles traveling west/northwest on Eastland Land
shall stop at Fieldcrest Lane.
   16.   Deborah Anne Lane. Vehicles traveling East on Deborah Anne Lane shall
stop at Jappa Road.
(Ord. 270 - Aug. 18 Supp.)
65.03   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Intersection of Main Street and Dows Street.
   2.   Intersection of Traer Street and Walker Street.
65.04   YIELD REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
- NONE -
65.05   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.06   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.07   YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or
within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01  Temporary Embargo           66.03  Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
66.02  Permits for Excess Size and 66.04  Load Limits on Bridges
Weight
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 & 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The Mayor may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a special
permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the maximum
specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named in the
permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the City is
responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 321E.1)
66.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 & 475)
- NONE -
66.04   LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than the
maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Mayor may cause to be posted and maintained signs on said bridge
and at suitable distances ahead of the entrances thereof to warn drivers of
such maximum load limits.  No person shall drive upon said bridge any vehicle
weighing, loaded or unloaded, in excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01  Walking in Street67.03  Pedestrian Crossing
67.02  Hitchhiking      67.04  Use of Sidewalks
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
67.04   USE OF SIDEWALKS.
Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent street.
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
   1.   The alleys located between Dows and Traer Streets shall be one-way,
with traffic entering Dows Street and exiting on Traer Street.
   2.   The alleys located between Dows and Rowley Streets shall be one-way,
with traffic entering from Dows Street and exiting on Rowley Street.
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
69.01  Park Adjacent to Curb        69.09  Limits on Amount of Time Parked
69.02  Parking on One-Way Streets   69.10  Truck Parking Limited
69.03  Angle Parking                69.11  Parking Allowed on Only One Side of
                                     Street
69.04  Manner of Angle Parking      69.12  Overnight Parking in Ely Parks
69.05  Parking for Certain Purposes 69.13  Snow Emergency
Illegal
69.06  Parking Prohibited           69.14  Recreational Vehicles
69.07  Persons with Disabilities    69.15  Unlicensed Vehicles and Trailers
Parking
69.08  No Parking Zones
 
69.01   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   ANGLE PARKING.
Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
   1.   Dows Street, on both sides from Walker Street to Main Street.
69.04   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings.  No part of any vehicle or the load thereon, when
said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into
the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to
the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for any of the following
principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Sale.  Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   2.   Repairing.  For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of
such vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
   3.   Advertising.  Displaying advertising.
   4.   Merchandise Sales.  Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a
duly established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code
of Ordinances.
69.06   PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   1.   Crosswalk.  On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
   2.   Center Parkway.  On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Mailboxes.  Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so
placed and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   4.   Sidewalks.  On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
   5.   Driveway.  In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
   6.   Intersection.  Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
   7.   Fire Hydrant.  Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
   8.   Stop Sign or Signal.  Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
   9.   Railroad Crossing.  Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
   10.   Fire Station.  Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
   11.   Excavations.  Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
   12.   Double Parking.  On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
   13.   Hazardous Locations.  When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
   14.   Churches, Nursing Homes and Other Buildings.  A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
   15.   Alleys.  No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.  The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   16.   Ramps.  In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
   17.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line.  That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
   18.   In More Than One Space.  In any designated parking space so that any
part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.07   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
   1.   Establishment.  Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18.  No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
   2.   Improper Use.  The following uses of a persons with disabilities
parking space, located on either public or private property, constitute
improper use of a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a
violation of this Code of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
      A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
      B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section
321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones.  No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
      A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.
      B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08   NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following specifically
designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer or traffic
control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Broadview Court, inside of curve, from Dows Street to Dows Street.
   2.   Alleys between Rowley Street and Fuhrmeister Street.
   3.   Hillcrest Street, on the east side from Dows Street to the City Park.
   4.   Highland Road, on the south side from Hillcrest Street to Knoll Court.
   5.   Dows Street between Walker Street and Main Street from 3:00 a.m. to 7:
00 a.m. between December 1 and April 1.
69.09   LIMITS ON AMOUNT OF TIME PARKED.  No person shall park a vehicle:
   1.   For longer than 48 hours on any public street or alley.
   2.   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any street marked to
prohibit all-night parking unless the person is a physician or other person on
emergency call.
   3.   For longer than 15 minutes for the first legal parking space westerly
of Main Street on the south side of Dows Street between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m.
   4.   For longer than 15 minutes for the first legal parking space southerly
of the intersection of Main Street and Dows Street between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
69.10   TRUCK PARKING LIMITED.
No person shall park a motor truck, semi-trailer, or other motor vehicle with
trailer attached in violation of the following regulations.  The provisions of
this section do not apply to pickup, light delivery or panel delivery trucks.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Business District.  Excepting only when such vehicles are actually
engaged in the delivery or receiving of merchandise or cargo within the
prohibited area, no person shall park or leave unattended such vehicle, on any
of the following designated streets/areas. 
      A.   Dows Street from Main Street to State Street.
      B.   Within 500 feet of any residential district or private residence.
When actually receiving or delivering merchandise or cargo such vehicle shall
be stopped or parked in a manner that will not interfere with other traffic.
   2.   Livestock.  No such vehicle containing livestock shall be parked on any
street, alley, or highway for a period of time of more than 30 minutes.
69.11   PARKING ALLOWED ON ONLY ONE SIDE OF STREET.
No person shall park a vehicle on the side of the street shown below, except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or sheriff's deputy in any of the following
locations.
 
Street Name or Segment of Street                Parking Prohibited
Northgate                                       north side of street
Wrigley                                         east side of street
Cominsky                                        east side of street
Glendale from Banner Valley to Southbrook Drive east side of street
Traer Street                                    north side of street
 
(Ord. 281 - Jun. 19 Supp.)
69.12   OVERNIGHT PARKING IN ELY PARKS.
No person shall park a vehicle in the Ely City Park between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except that the following may be allowed as approved in
writing by the Ely Recreation Commission:
   1.   Construction equipment or vehicles related to approved maintenance or
construction projects.
   2.   Vehicles related to a community or sport event, festival or similar
activity approved by the Recreation Commission.
69.13   SNOW EMERGENCY.
No person shall park, abandon, or leave unattended any vehicle on any public
street, alley, or City-owned off-street parking area during any snow emergency
proclaimed by the Mayor unless the snow has been removed or plowed from said
street, alley or parking area and the snow has ceased to fall.  A snow
emergency parking ban shall continue from its proclamation through the duration
of the snow or ice storm and the 48-hour period after cessation of the storm
except as above provided upon streets which have been fully opened.  The ban
shall be of uniform application and the Mayor is directed to publicize the
requirements widely, using all available news media, in early November each
year.  When predictions or occurrences indicate the need, the Mayor shall
proclaim a snow emergency and the Mayor shall inform the news media to
publicize the proclamation and the parking rules under the emergency.  Such
emergency may be extended or shortened when conditions warrant.
(Code of Iowa, 321.236[1])
69.14   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
It is unlawful to park a boat trailer or utility trailer (loaded or unloaded),
or unoccupied motor home, or travel or camping trailer, on any public street,
alley, or place for a period of time in excess of 48 hours.  Upon application
to the City Hall, emergency or temporary parking for occupied travel trailers,
campers, and motor homes may be permitted at designated locations on public
streets, alleys, or any other public or private place for a three-day period,
subject to extended time of up to three days upon reapplication, and subject to
any other prohibitions or regulations imposed by traffic and parking ordinances
of the City.
69.15   UNLICENSED VEHICLES AND TRAILERS.
Motor vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without current license plates
shall not be parked or stored on any lot other than in completely enclosed
buildings.
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01  Arrest or Citation    70.04  Parking Violations:  Vehicle
                              Unattended
70.02  Scheduled Violations  70.05  Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                              Parking
70.03  Parking Violations:  70.06  Impounding Vehicles
Alternate
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
   1.   Immediate Arrest.  Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
   2.   Issue Citation.  Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate
a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner
of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 & 321.485)
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of the
Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of those
violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 & 805.8A)
70.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS:  ALTERNATE.
Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
office of the City Clerk.  The simple notice of a fine shall be in the amount
of $25.00 for all violations except improper use of a persons with disabilities
parking permit.  If such fine is not paid within 30 days, it shall be increased
by $5.00.  The simple notice of a fine for improper use of a persons with
disabilities parking permit is $100.00. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b] & 321L.4[2])
70.04   PARKING VIOLATIONS:  VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
   1.   Described Vehicle.  The particular vehicle described in the information
was parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
   2.   Registered Owner.  The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
The Mayor, City Administrator or a peace officer is hereby authorized to
remove, or cause to be removed, a vehicle from a street, public alley, public
parking lot or highway to the nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a
garage designated or maintained by the City, under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated:
   1.   Disabled Vehicle.  When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle.  When any vehicle is left unattended and is
so illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Snow Removal.  When any vehicle is parked in violation of a ban on
parking during a snow emergency as proclaimed by the Mayor or during snow
removal operations.
   4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period.  When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time.  If the owner can
be located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   5.   Costs.  In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and
storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01  Purpose                 75.05  Operation of All-Terrain Vehicles
75.02  Definitions             75.06  Negligence
75.03  General Regulations     75.07  Accident Reports
75.04  Operation of Snowmobiles
 
75.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat
or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain. 
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain.  An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks, that
has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled by
the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control.  “Off-road
utility vehicle” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
      A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 1” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
      B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 2” includes vehicles, other than
type 1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of
65 inches or less.
      C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – type 3” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or
both.
An operator of an off-road utility vehicle is also subject to the provisions of
this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
   4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000
pounds, that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a
width of 48 inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and
is designed for travel on snow or ice.  “Snowmobile” does not include an all-
terrain vehicle that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type
tracks, or treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle or off-road utility vehicle
within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G & Ch. 321I)
75.04   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets.  Snowmobiles shall be operated only upon streets that have not
been plowed during the snow season and on such other streets as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4a])
   2.   Exceptions.  Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only
under the following circumstances:
      A.   Emergencies.  Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
      B.   Direct Crossing.  Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided all of the following occur:
         (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
         (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
         (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way.  Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an
operating railroad right-of-way.  A snowmobile may be driven directly across a
railroad right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any
other provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
   4.   Trails.  Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle
trails except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
   5.   Parks and Other City Land.  Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any
park, playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City.  A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land
without a snow cover of at least one-tenth of one inch.
   6.   Sidewalk or Parking.  Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
75.05   OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
All-terrain vehicles may be operated on City streets only in accordance with
Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa and the provisions of this section.
   1.   City Registration.  ATVs with valid City of Ely registration stickers
may be operated on City streets and alleys for the following purposes:
      A.   Snow removal via attached snowplow or blade.
      B.   Gardening and/or lawn work.
      C.   Special events authorized by the City Council.
   2.   Registration Process. 
      A.   ATV owners may register an ATV with the City Clerk/Administrator
using forms provided by the City.  The Clerk/Administrator shall not register a
vehicle under this provision until the following has occurred:
         (1)   Owner has provided evidence that the ATV is registered as
required by Iowa law, and that such registration is current.  The owner/
operator shall maintain such registration.
         (2)   Owner has provided proof of current financial responsibility in
accordance with Section 321.20B of the Code of Iowa.  The owner shall maintain
such financial responsibility.
         (3)   The Clerk/Administrator has inspected the vehicle to verify it
meets the requirements of this chapter.
         (4)   Owner has paid the registration fee set out below.
      B.   The registration sticker shall be displayed visibly and prominently
on the left rear fender.
      C.   All registrations issued shall uniquely identify the name and
address of the owner/operator.
      D.   The registration fee shall be $25.00.
      E.   Registrations shall be effective from April 1 through March 31.
         (1)   Registrations may be renewed after owner/operator has filed an
application to renew with the Clerk/Administrator and all conditions set out in
this section have been met.
         (2)   Fee for a renewed registration shall be $25.00.
   3.   Equipment.  The ATV shall be equipped as required by Sections 321I.12
and 321I.13 of the Code of Iowa, including but not limited to a muffler,
headlight, tail light and brakes.  ATVs shall also be equipped with a bicycle
safety flag of fluorescent orange color on a staff holder to put such flag at
least five feet above the surface of the street.
   4.   Operation.
      A.   No person shall operate an ATV on any City street, alley, or right-
of-way unless such person is at least 18 years of age and has a valid Iowa
driver’s license.
      B.   Traffic Regulations.  Any person operating an ATV shall strictly
adhere to all traffic signs and signals and all other traffic rules and
regulations, and shall obey the orders and direction of any law enforcement
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
      C.   Speed.  No ATV shall be operated at a speed in excess of the lesser
of 25 miles per hour or that posted; nor shall any ATV be operated at a speed
greater than is reasonable and proper for the existing conditions.
      D.   Lights.  No ATV shall be operated without a lighted headlight, tail
light, and brake light from sunset to sunrise and at such other times when
conditions provide insufficient lighting to render clearly discernible persons
and vehicles at a distance of 500 feet ahead.
      E.   Unattended and Parking.  No person shall leave an ATV unattended on
public property while the motor is running or the keys are in the ignition
switch.  Owner/operators shall comply with all parking regulations in the City.
      F.   Hours of Operation.  No ATV shall be operated in the City between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:30 a.m. except for emergency situations or for
loading or unloading from a transport trailer; except that ATVs may be operated
during prohibited hours to perform snow removal activities.
      G.   Occupants.  The number of occupants shall not exceed the number of
seats installed by the manufacturer in said vehicle.
   5.   Locations.
      A.   City Streets. Registered ATVs may be operated upon streets under the
jurisdiction and within the corporate limits of the City of Ely for the
purposes listed above.  ATVs shall not be operated upon any City street that is
a primary road extension or state highway.  For the purpose of this section,
State Street shall be considered a primary road extension.  ATVs may cross such
primary road extensions.
      B.   Trails.  ATVs shall not be operated on any recreational, bike or
walking trail unless the trail is specifically designated to allow use of motor
vehicles.
      C.   Sidewalks.  ATVs shall not be operated upon sidewalks unless the
operator is engaged in snow removal or sidewalk maintenance activities.
      D.   Parking.  ATVs shall not be operated upon that portion of a street
right-of-way between the curb or edge of street paving and the sidewalk
referred to as the “parking” unless engaged in snow removal, maintenance or
landscaping activities for the abutting property.
      E.   City Parks/Public Land.  ATVs shall not be operated in City parks or
upon other City-owned land unless for a special event authorized by the City
Council.
      F.   Private Property.  ATVs may only be operated on private property
with the express consent of the owner.
      G.   Direct Crossing.  An all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle
may make a direct crossing of a highway provided all of the following occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
         (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing.
         (2)   The all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle is brought
to a complete stop before crossing the shoulder or main traveled way of the
highway.
         (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
         (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
         (5)   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway
designated as an all-terrain vehicle trail by a state agency, county, or city
to a street, roadway, or highway designated as an all-terrain vehicle trail by
a state agency, county, or city.
   6.   Violation and Penalty.
      A.   Any person guilty of violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of $100.00 and revocation of the
City of Ely registration for a period of two months.
      B.   Any person guilty of violating this section two times in a 12-month
period shall be subject to a fine of $200.00 and revocation of the City of Ely
registration for a period of two years.
      C.   Any person guilty of violating this section three times shall be
subject to a fine of $300.00 and permanent revocation of the City of Ely
registration.
      D.   Persons violating this section may also be prosecuted, and subject
to the penalties set out in, Section 321I.36 of the Code of Iowa.
75.06   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of an ATV or snowmobile are liable for any injury or
damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV or snowmobile.  The
owner of an ATV or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or damage
only if the owner was the operator of the ATV or snowmobile at the time the
injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent to operate
the ATV or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 & 321I.19)
75.07   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever an ATV or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in injury or
death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more, either the
operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify a law
enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 & 321I.11)
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01  Scope of Regulations           76.08  Riding on Sidewalks
76.02  Traffic Code Applies           76.09  Towing
76.03  Double Riding Restricted       76.10  Improper Riding
76.04  Two Abreast Limit              76.11  Parking
76.05  Speed                          76.12  Equipment Requirements
76.06  Emerging from Alley or Driveway76.13  Special Penalty
76.07  Carrying Articles
 
76.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or
upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to those provisions that by their nature can have no application.  Whenever
such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be subject to all
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03   DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto.  No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04   TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.  All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.05   SPEED.
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06   EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07   CARRYING ARTICLES.
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article that
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08   RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
   1.   Business District.  No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the Business District, as defined in Section
60.02(1) of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   2.   Other Locations.  When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   3.   Yield Right-of-Way.  Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09   TOWING.
It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any other
vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured for
such use.
76.10   IMPROPER RIDING.
No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.11   PARKING.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.12   EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
   1.   Lamps Required.  Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a
distance of at least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except
that a red reflector on the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
   2.   Brakes Required.  Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that
will enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13   SPECIAL PENALTY.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second offense
and 30 days for a third offense.
CHAPTER 77
GOLF CARTS
 
77.01  Purpose                          77.05  Hours
77.02  Operation of Golf Carts Permitted77.06  Speed
77.03  Prohibited Streets               77.07  Golf Carts Registered
77.04  Equipment
 
77.01    PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to permit the operation of golf carts on certain
streets in the City, as authorized by Section 321.247 of the Code of Iowa, as
amended. This chapter applies whenever a golf cart is operated on any street or
alley, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
77.02    OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS PERMITTED.
Golf carts registered with the City of Ely may be operated upon the streets of
the City by persons at least 18 years of age possessing a valid Iowa operator’s
license, except as prohibited in Section
77.03 of this chapter.  “Off-road utility vehicles,” as defined in Section
321I.1(16) of the Code of Iowa, shall be included in the category of golf cart
for the purpose of this chapter.  The number of occupants shall not exceed the
number of seats installed by the manufacturer in said vehicle.
77.03    PROHIBITED STREETS.
Golf carts shall not be operated upon any City street which is a primary road
extension through the City. However, golf carts may cross such a primary road
extension.  State Street is hereby designated a primary road extension in the
City.
77.04    EQUIPMENT.
Golf carts operated upon City streets shall be equipped with at least the
following:
   1.   A slow moving vehicle sign.
   2.   A bicycle safety flag, the top of which shall be a minimum of five feet
from ground level.
   3.   Golf carts operated on City streets shall be equipped with adequate
brakes, headlights, and taillights.
77.05    HOURS.
Golf carts may be operated on City streets only between sunrise and sunset.
77.06    SPEED.
No golf carts shall be operated on any City street at a speed in excess of 25
miles per hour.
77.07    GOLF CARTS REGISTERED.
No person shall operate a golf cart on any public street, or alley for any
purpose unless said golf cart is registered by the City of Ely. 
   1.   Golf cart owners may register a golf cart with the City Clerk/
Administrator using forms provided by the City.
   2.   The Clerk/Administrator shall not register a golf cart until the
following has occurred:
      A.   Owner has provided proof owner has liability insurance covering
operation of golf carts on City streets.
      B.   The Clerk/Administrator has inspected the vehicle to verify it meets
the requirements of this chapter.
      C.   Owner has paid the registration fee set out below.
   3.   The registration sticker shall be displayed visibly and prominently on
the left rear fender.
   4.   All registrations issued shall uniquely identify the name and address
of the owner.
   5.   The registration fee shall be $25.00.
   6.   Registrations shall be effective from April 1 through March 31 of each
year.
      A.   Registration may be renewed after owner has filed an application to
renew with the Clerk/Administrator and all conditions set out in Sect 77.07 (3)
have been met.
      B.   Fee for a renewed registration shall be $25.00.
CHAPTER 78
SKATEBOARDS, SCOOTERS, ROLLER SKATES, AND ROLLER BLADES
 
78.01  Unlawful Use Upon Designated 78.04  Improper Riding
Sidewalks
78.02  Towing                       78.05  Unlawful Use Upon Tennis Courts
78.03  Following Fire Trucks        78.06  Temporary Seizure
 
78.01    UNLAWFUL USE UPON DESIGNATED SIDEWALKS.
   1.   No person shall roller skate, roller blade or ride askateboard or
scooter upon a sidewalk located in the following areas:
      A.   Dows Street.
      B.   State Street.
   2.   When signs are erected on any sidewalk prohibiting roller skating,
roller blading or the riding of skateboards or scooters thereon by any person,
no person shall disobey the signs.
   3.   Whenever any person is roller skating, roller-blading, or riding a
skateboard or scooter upon any sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-
way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible signal before overtaking and
passing.
78.02    TOWING.
It is unlawful for any person who is roller skating, roller blading, riding a
skateboard or riding a scooter to be towed or to tow any other person upon the
streets of the City.
78.03    FOLLOWING FIRE TRUCKS.
No person who is roller skating, roller blading, riding a skateboard or riding
a scooter shall follow a fire truck or other fire equipment at any time.
78.04    IMPROPER RIDING.
No person shall roller skate, roller blade, ride a skateboard or ride a scooter
in an irregular or reckless manner such as zigzagging, stunting, traveling at
an excessive speed or acting in any other manner so as to disregard the safety
of the operation or others.
78.05    UNLAWFUL USE UPON TENNIS COURTS.
No person shall roller skate, roller blade or ride a skateboard or scooter upon
any tennis court.
78.06    TEMPORARY SEIZURE.
In the event a police officer has determined that an individual has violated
any section of this chapter, said officer shall have the option, in lieu of
issuing a citation, of temporarily seizing the skateboard, scooter, roller
skates and/or roller blades being used by the individual committing the offense
for a period of up to fourteen days.  If the individual who is violating a
section of this article has committed any previous offense of any section of
this chapter within the preceding three hundred sixty-five days, the officer
shall have the option to temporarily seize the skateboard, scooter, roller
skates and/or roller blades for up to thirty days.  At the end of the
appropriate number of days, the owner of the skateboard, scooter, roller skates
and/or roller blades shall be able to pick up the skateboard, scooter, roller
skates and/or roller blades at the Ely City Hall.  Duly sworn law enforcement
officers shall have the ability to temporarily seize the skateboard, scooter,
roller skates and/or roller blades being ridden by the violator even if the
skateboard, scooter, roller skates and/or roller blades do not belong to the
person committing the violation. 
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01  Definitions                               80.06  Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02  Authority to Take Possession of Abandoned 80.07  Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Vehicles                                          Vehicles
80.03  Notice by Mail                            80.08  Proceeds from Sales
80.04  Notification in Newspaper                 80.09  Duties of Demolisher
80.05  Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] & Sec. 321.90)
   1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
      A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
      B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than 24 hours.
      C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property
for more than 24 hours.
      D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days.  However, a
police authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
      E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority
to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
      F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
   2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
   3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property.  The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles.  A property owner or other person in control
of private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to
dispose of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody
the abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative.  If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
The police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall notify, within 20 days, by certified mail, the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle or to personal property found in the vehicle, addressed
to the parties’ last known addresses of record, that the abandoned vehicle has
been taken into custody.  Notice shall be deemed given when mailed.  The notice
shall describe the year, make, model and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, describe the personal property found in the vehicle, set forth the
location of the facility where the vehicle is being held, and inform the
persons receiving the notice of their right to reclaim the vehicle and personal
property within 10 days after the effective date of the notice upon payment of
all towing, preservation, and storage charges resulting from placing the
vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of the notice.  The notice
shall also state that the failure of the owner, lienholders or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders and claimants
of all right, title, claim and interest in the vehicle or personal property and
that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is deemed consent to
the sale of the vehicle at a public auction or disposal of the vehicle to a
demolisher and to disposal of the personal property by sale or destruction.  If
the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity without a
police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the private entity
may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90 of the Code of
Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the vehicle.  If the abandoned
vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or by a private entity
hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that any person claiming
rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who disputes the
planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police authority or
private entity or of the assessment of fees and charges provided by this
section may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority to
contest those matters.  If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a
hearing or exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property
within the 10-day reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders or claimants shall
no longer have any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the
personal property.  A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize
any right, title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders or claimants
after the expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.04   NOTIFICATION IN NEWSPAPER.
If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Section
80.03.  The published notice may contain multiple listings of abandoned
vehicles and personal property but shall be published within the same time
requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed notice
in Section
80.03.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3b])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.  The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority.  The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification required, in
accordance with State law.  Any balance shall be held for the owner of the
motor vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be mailed and
deposited into the State Road Use Tax Fund.  Where the sale of any vehicle
fails to realize the amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall
apply for reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle.  A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01  Definitions                   90.11  Installation of Water Service Pipe
90.02  Superintendent’s Duties     90.12  Responsibility for Water Service
                                      Pipe
90.03  Mandatory Connections         90.13  Failure to Maintain
90.04  Abandoned Connections         90.14  Curb Valve
90.05  Permit                        90.15  Interior Valve
90.06  Fee for Permit and Connection 90.16  Inspection and Approval
Charge
90.07  Compliance with Plumbing Code 90.17  Completion by the City
90.08  Plumber Required              90.18  Shutting Off Water Supply
90.09  Excavations                   90.19  Operation of Curb Valve and
                                      Hydrants
90.10  Tapping Mains
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
   1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
   2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service
from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties
the duties, responsibilities, liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
   3.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of the City water system or
any duly authorized assistant, agent or representative.
   4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
   5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
   6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for
securing, collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02   SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.
The Superintendent shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and
their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to
water services in the City in accordance with this chapter.  This chapter shall
apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to new
ones.  The Superintendent shall make such rules, not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of the
water system, subject to the approval of the Council.  In the event of an
emergency the Superintendent may make temporary rules for the protection of the
system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS. 
The owners of any houses, buildings or structures used for human occupancy,
employment or use, situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley
or right-of-way in which there is located a public water main are hereby
required to connect such facilities to the City’s public water system in
accordance with the provisions of these Water Service chapters within 90 days
after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said public water
main is located within 150 feet of the property line of such owner.  There
shall be no cross-connections permitted between any existing private water
system and the Municipal Waterworks Plant and System.
90.04   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned off
at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight.
90.05   PERMIT.
Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City.  The application for the permit shall
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water.  If the proposed work meets all the requirements of this chapter
and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid, the permit shall be
issued.  Work under any permit must be completed within 90 days after the
permit is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or unfair
due to conditions beyond the control of the person making the application, an
extension of time within which to complete the work may be granted.  The permit
may be revoked at any time for any violation of these chapters.
90.06   FEE FOR PERMIT AND CONNECTION CHARGE.
Before any permit is issued the person who makes the application shall pay
$25.00 to the Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising,
regulating, and inspecting the work.  In addition there shall be a connection
charge in the amount of $100.00 paid before issuance of a permit to reimburse
the City for costs borne by the City in making water service available to the
property served.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.
90.08   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber. 
90.09   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the State Plumbing Code
and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.10   TAPPING MAINS.
All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Independent Services.  No more than one house, building, or premises
shall be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained
from the Superintendent and unless provision is made so that each house,
building, or premises may be shut off independently of the other.
   2.   Sizes and Location of Taps.  All mains six inches or less in diameter
shall receive no larger than a three-fourths-inch tap.  All mains of over six
inches in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap.  Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Superintendent shall order.  All taps in the mains shall
be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart.  No main shall
be tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
   3.   Corporation Stop.  A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Superintendent, shall be inserted in every tap in the main. 
The corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service pipe.
   4.   Location Record.  An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Superintendent in such form as the
Superintendent shall require.
90.11   INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be Type K copper. 
The use of any other pipe material for the service line shall first be approved
by the Superintendent.  Pipe must be laid sufficiently waving, and to such
depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
90.12   RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the main to the building served,
including the curb shut-off valve, shall be borne by the property owner.  The
owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation or maintenance of said water
service pipe.
90.13   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])
90.14   CURB VALVE.
There shall be installed within the public right-of-way a main shut-off valve
on the water service pipe of a pattern approved by the Superintendent.  The
shut-off valve shall be constructed to be visible and even with the pavement or
ground.
90.15   INTERIOR VALVE.
There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently.  Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others.
90.16   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Superintendent before they are
covered, and the Superintendent shall keep a record of such approvals.  If the
Superintendent refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must
proceed immediately to correct the work.  Every person who uses or intends to
use the municipal water system shall permit the Superintendent to enter the
premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable
hours and on proof of authority.
90.17   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours after
the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system, or
should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish or
correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property owner
or the plumber.  If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the costs
before receiving another permit.  If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a & h])
90.18   SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
The Superintendent may shut off the supply of water to any customer because of
any violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service System
chapters that is not being contested in good faith.  The supply shall not be
turned on again until all violations have been corrected and the Superintendent
has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.19   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
It is unlawful for any person except the Superintendent to turn water on at the
curb valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by the City, shall
open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01  Purpose                          91.07  Meter Costs
91.02  Water Use Metered                91.08  Meter Repairs
91.03  Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception91.09  Right of Entry
91.04  Location of Meters               91.10  Meter Testing
91.05  Meter Setting                    91.11  Irrigation Meters
91.06  Jumper Wire
 
91.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02   WATER USE METERED.
All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters purchased from
the City and installed by the property owner or builder.  Meter touch pads will
be installed by the City.
91.03   FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Superintendent.  No other
open, unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there shall
be no valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which
must be sealed open.
91.04   LOCATION OF METERS.
All meters shall be installed near a floor drain and shall be so located that
they are easily accessible to meter readers and repairmen and protected from
freezing.
91.05   METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the meter. 
Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent and shall be of
a design and construction approved by the Superintendent.  Customers shall not
alter a water meter installation or tamper with water meters in any manner. 
All new water meter settings shall be installed with a remote reading device of
a type approved by the Superintendent and purchased from the City.  Meters one
inch or larger in size shall have a bypass line, with a lockable valve sealed
by the Water Department, in order to prevent disruption of the water service
when maintenance or testing is in process.
91.06   JUMPER WIRE. 
All water services must have a jumper wire installed to ground the water
service when the water meter is removed for testing or maintenance.  The use of
the water service as a primary ground for electrical, telephone, cable TV, or
other systems is prohibited.  In the event the water system is installed using
plastic or PVC pipe materials, neither primary nor secondary grounding is
required.
91.07   METER COSTS.
The property owner of a new water account must purchase a meter and remote
reading device from the City.  The type and installation of the meter shall be
in accordance with the Superintendent’s directives and this chapter. The City
shall retain ownership of the meter and remote reading device and shall have
the right to inspect said meter and remote reader from time to time to insure
proper operation of the meter and to check for illegal bypassing of any other
meter in the premises.  Customers shall pay the actual cost of the water meter
and remote reading device.
91.08   METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter purchased by the property owner and owned by the City is
found to be out of order the Superintendent shall have it repaired or
replaced.  If it is found that damage to the meter has occurred due to the
carelessness or negligence of the customer or property owner, which includes
damage from freezing, then the property owner shall be liable for the cost of
repairs or replacement.
91.09   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent shall be permitted to enter the premises of any customer at
any reasonable time to read, remove, or change a meter.
91.10   METER TESTING.
In case there is doubt on the part of the customer as to the accuracy of a
water meter, such customer may have the meter tested by the Water Department,
at which test the customer may be present or have a representative present.  If
the meter is found to register within two percent of being correct, a charge,
as set by resolution of the City Council, shall be paid for a part of the labor
for making such tests.  If the meter is found to measure incorrectly more than
two percent, no charge shall be made for making the test.  If the meter should
be found to over-register more than two percent, there shall be a proportional
deduction made from the previous water bill.  A water meter shall be considered
to register satisfactorily when it registers within two percent of accuracy. 
Customers requesting inspection by City employees of premises because of an
excessive water bill may be required to pay a fee, except that if the water
meter is at fault, there will be no fee.
91.11   IRRIGATION METERS.
An irrigation meter may be installed to measure water that is not disposed of
through the public sanitary sewer system.  The water measured by an irrigation
meter may include water for swimming pools, watering yards, watering gardens,
or other similar uses.  The following regulations apply to irrigation meters:
   1.   Option 1 - Permanently Plumbed Irrigation Meters.
      A.   Irrigation meters shall be installed not more than four feet from
the main meter and shall be installed parallel to the main meter.
      B.   The irrigation meter must be installed horizontal to the floor with
the arrow of the meter being in the direction of the flow of water to the
outside.
      C.   The City will furnish the irrigation meter after the required
plumbing is provided by a licensed plumber.  The full cost of the meter and the
cost of installation shall be paid by the customer or property owner prior to
the installation of any such meter.
      D.   Sewer service charges shall not apply to the water measured by the
irrigation meter.
   2.   Option 2 - Portable Irrigation Meters.
      A.   Portable irrigation meters shall be available for residents who do
not wish to permanently plumb an irrigation meter.
      B.   The irrigation meter must be plumbed to connect to an outside spigot
with the arrow of the meter being in the direction of the flow of water to the
outside.
      C.   The City will furnish the irrigation meter after the full cost of
the meter is paid by the customer or property owner.
      D.   Customers will be allowed a one-time-per-year credit on their sewer
bill for the water that flows through the meter for outside usage.  The
customer will be responsible to record with the City Clerk the beginning
reading of the meter each spring and the ending reading each fall.  A credit
for the sewer portion of the water that went through the meter will be given as
a credit on the customer’s bill each November if applicable.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01  Service Charges          92.06  Lien for Nonpayment
92.02  Rates For Service        92.07  Lien Exemption
92.03  Rates Outside the City   92.08  Lien Notice
92.04  Billing for Water Service92.09  Customer Deposits
92.05  Service Discontinued     92.10  Temporary Vacancy
 
92.01   SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters provided for in
Chapter 91.  Each location, building, premises or connection shall be
considered a separate and distinct customer whether owned or controlled by the
same person or not.  Where a meter has ceased to register, or meter reading
could not be obtained, the quantity of water consumed for billing purpose will
be based upon an average of the prior three months’ consumption, and the
conditions of water service prevailing during the period in which the meter
failed to register.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02   RATES FOR SERVICE.
Water service shall be furnished at the following monthly rates within the
City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
 
Gallons Used Per Month Rate
0 to 1,000 gallons     $17.25 (minimum bill)
1,001 to 3,000 gallons $17.25 plus $1.40 per 1,000 gallons
3,001 to 9,000 gallons $20.05 plus $1.86 per 1,000 gallons
9,001 gallons or more  $31.21 plus $2.78 per 1,000 gallons
 
On July 1 of each year, the water rates shall be increased by 2.0% over the
rates in effect during the preceding year.
92.03   RATES OUTSIDE THE CITY.
Water service shall be provided to any customer located outside the corporate
limits of the City which the City has agreed to serve at rates 150 percent of
the rates provided in Section
92.02.  No such customer, however, will be served unless the customer shall
have signed a service contract agreeing to be bound by the ordinances, rules,
and regulations applying to water service established by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 & 384.84)
92.04   BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Bills Issued.  The Clerk shall prepare and issue bills for combined
service accounts on or before the first day of each month.
   2.   Bills Payable.  Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable at the office of the Clerk by the twentieth day of each month.
   3.   Late Payment Penalty.  Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent.  A one-time late payment penalty of $10.00 shall be added to each
delinquent bill.
92.05   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued in accordance with
the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Notice.  The City Clerk shall notify each delinquent customer that
service will be discontinued if payment of the combined service account,
including late payment charges, is not received by the date specified in the
notice of delinquency.  Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the
customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred and shall inform
the customer of the nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the
opportunity for a hearing prior to the discontinuance.
   2.   Notice to Landlords.  If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord.  If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
   3.   Hearing.  If a hearing is requested by noon of the day preceding the
shut off, the Clerk shall conduct an informal hearing and shall make a
determination as to whether the disconnection is justified.  The customer has
the right to appeal the Clerk’s decision to the Council, and if the Council
finds that disconnection is justified, then such disconnection shall be made,
unless payment has been received.
   4.   Fees.  A fee of $35.00 shall be charged before service is restored to a
delinquent customer.  No fee shall be charged for the usual or customary trips
in the regular changes in occupancies of property.
92.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises.  Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.07   LIEN EXEMPTION.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Water Service Exemption.  The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges.  The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City.  When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full.  The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
   2.   Other Service Exemption.  The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply
to the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, storm water drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service.  The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City.  When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full.  The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
   3.   Written Notice.  The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name
of the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins.  Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit.  A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant.  A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant.  A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership.  A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership. 
   4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes.  A lien for
nonpayment of utility services described in subsections 1 and 2 of this section
shall not be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or
manufactured home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is
owned by a tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home
community and the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or
manager is the account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the
tenant is responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed
to the account holder.
92.08   LIEN NOTICE.
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred.  If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord.  The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09   CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
There shall be required from every customer a $50.00 deposit intended to
guarantee the payment of bills for service.  Upon completion of 12 months of
prompt payment, a refund of the deposit, without interest, shall be made.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.10   TEMPORARY VACANCY.
A property owner may request water service be temporarily discontinued and shut
off at the curb valve when the property is expected to be vacant for an
extended period of time, no less than six weeks.  There shall be a $35.00 fee
collected for restoring service.  During a period when service is temporarily
discontinued as provided herein there shall be no minimum service charge.  The
City will not drain pipes or pull meters for temporary vacancies.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01  Purpose                  95.06  Service Outside the City
95.02  Definitions              95.07  Right of Entry
95.03  Superintendent           95.08  Use of Easements
95.04  Prohibited Acts          95.09  Special Penalties
95.05  Sewer Connection Required
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
   1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees C, expressed in milligrams per
liter or parts per million.
   2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
   4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and
sewage.
   5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
   6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
   7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial
manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage. 
   8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the
public sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged
therefrom. 
   9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater. 
   10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
   11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution. 
   12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial waste.
   14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted. 
   15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present. 
   16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage. 
   17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage. 
   18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage. 
   19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees
levied against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of
said customers by said sewer system.
   20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation. 
   21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   22.   “Superintendent” means the Public Works Director of the City or any
authorized deputy, agent, or representative. 
   23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable
by laboratory filtering. 
   24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   SUPERINTENDENT.
The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Operation and Maintenance.  Operate and maintain the City sewage
system.
   2.   Inspection and Tests.  Conduct necessary inspections and tests to
assure compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters. 
   3.   Records.  Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
   1.   Damage Sewer System.  Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
   2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater.  Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. 
   3.   Manholes.  Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent. 
   4.   Objectionable Wastes.  Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   5.   Septic Tanks.  Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in these chapters. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
   6.   Untreated Discharge.  Discharge to any natural outlet within the City,
or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 60 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 200 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it.  Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
95.06   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 & 3])
95.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer
chapters.  The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities
for waste treatment.
95.08   USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement.  All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters: 
   1.   Notice of Violation.  Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof.  The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. 
   2.   Continuing Violations.  Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation
of this Code of Ordinances.  Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   3.   Liability Imposed.  Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation. 
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01  Permit                          96.06  Interceptors Required
96.02  Permit Fee and Connection Charge96.07  Sewer Tap
96.03  Plumber Required                96.08  Inspection Required
96.04  Excavations                     96.09  Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.05  Connection Requirements         96.10  Abatement of Violations
 
96.01   PERMIT.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the City.  The application for the permit shall
set forth the location and description of the property to be connected with the
sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be used, and shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent.  The permit shall require the owner to complete construction and
connection of the building sewer to the public sewer within 60 days after the
issuance of the permit, except that when a property owner makes sufficient
showing that due to conditions beyond the owner’s control or peculiar hardship,
such time period is inequitable or unfair, an extension of time within which to
comply with the provisions herein may be granted.  Any sewer connection permit
may be revoked at any time for a violation of these chapters.
96.02   PERMIT FEE AND CONNECTION CHARGES.
   1.   Permit Fee.  The person who makes the application shall pay a fee in
the amount of $25.00 to the Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and
supervising, regulating, and inspecting the work. 
   2.   Connection Charge.  In addition, there shall be a connection charge
paid to reimburse the City for costs borne by the City in making sewer service
available to the property served in accordance with the following:
      A.   Residential Service:  $350.00 single-family.
      B.   Residential Service:  $400.00 multi-family for each hook up per
building.
      C.   Commercial Service:  $600.00.
      D.   Industrial Service:  $1,000.00.
   3.   Surcharge.  A surcharge of $202.00 per sanitary sewer connection will
accompany sewer connection permits for each sewer connection made in all land
included in the preliminary plat referred to as “Kunkel Addition to Ely, Iowa”
approved by the City of Ely on May 12, 2014; the final plat for said territory
subsequently referred to as “Deer Valley Addition to the City of Ely, Linn
County, Iowa”; said land legally described as: 
The Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼ NW¼) of Section 32,
Township 82 North, Range 6 West of the 5th P.M., Linn County, Iowa, except
Parcel A, Plat of Survey #1377 to Linn County, Iowa.
This surcharge is in addition to the permit fee and connection charge set out
in subsections 1 and 2.
96.03   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer shall
be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
96.05   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
   1.   Old Building Sewers.  Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted
by the owner and observed by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of
this chapter.
   2.   Separate Building Sewers.  A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands
at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway.  In such cases the building sewer from the front building
may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   3.   Installation.  The installation and connection of the building sewer to
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code
and applicable rules and regulations of the City.  All such connections shall
be made gastight and watertight.  Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation. 
   4.   Water Lines.  When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service.  The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer. 
   5.   Size.  Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
   6.   Alignment and Grade.  All building sewers shall be laid to a straight
line to meet the following: 
      A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot. 
      B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot. 
      C.   Minimum velocity of two feet per second with the sewer half full.
      D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the
written approval of the Superintendent and shall be made only with approved
fittings. 
   7.   Depth.  Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.  The depth of cover above
the sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
   8.   Sewage Lifts.  In all buildings in which any building drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer.
   9.   Pipe Specifications.  Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws,
splits, or breaks.  Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code
except that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public
sewer, shall comply with the current edition of one of the following:
      A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
      B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74. 
      C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
      D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
   10.   Bearing Walls.  No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within
three feet of any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened. 
   11.   Jointing.  Fittings, type of joint and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Superintendent.  Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
   12.   Unstable Soil.  No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is
exposed when crossing any watercourse.  Where an old watercourse must of
necessity be crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement,
cast iron soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete
shall be required for such crossings.  Such encasement shall extend at least
six inches on all sides of the pipe.  The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe
shall rest on firm, solid material at either end. 
   13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space.  No connection for any
residence, business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made
unless the basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab
or crawl space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to
the foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled.  The backfill
shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from the
foundation.  Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the first floor
is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the
plug shall be sealed by the Superintendent.  Any accumulation of water in any
excavation or basement during construction and prior to connection to the
sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other than draining into the sanitary
sewer. 
96.06   INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, sludge and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and service
stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities when,
in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients.  Such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.  When required,
such interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
   1.   Design and Location.  All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
as specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Superintendent,
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   2.   Construction Standards.  The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature.  They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and
equipped with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight. 
   3.   Maintenance.  All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at
the owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at
all times.
96.07   SEWER TAP.
Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the “Y”
branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location.  If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent.  The public sewer shall be tapped
with a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer
shall be glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the
sewer.  At no time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a
manhole unless special written permission is received from the Superintendent
and in accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is
approved.
96.08   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Superintendent.  As soon as all pipe
work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and
before any backfilling is done, the Superintendent shall be notified and the
Superintendent shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material;
no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or trenches filled until after
the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Superintendent refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the
work.
96.09   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.  The owner shall
indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
96.10   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date of
official notice from the Council of such violation.  If not made within such
time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner.  Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01  Storm Water             97.05  Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                                Superintendent
97.02  Surface Waters Exception97.06  Special Facilities
97.03  Prohibited Discharges   97.07  Control Manholes
97.04  Restricted Discharges   97.08  Testing of Wastes
 
97.01   STORM WATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.  Storm
water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers that
are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent.  Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm
sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02   SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where such
discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but any
permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to the
best interests of the sewer system.
97.03   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   1.   Flammable or Explosive Material.  Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel
oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas. 
   2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials.  Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter as
CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer. 
   3.   Corrosive Wastes.  Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works. 
   4.   Solid or Viscous Substances.  Solid or viscous substances in quantities
or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders. 
   5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow. 
      A.   Any waters or wastes:  (i) having a five-day biochemical oxygen
demand greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or (ii) containing more
than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or (iii) having an
average daily flow greater than two percent of the average sewage flow of the
City, shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent. 
      B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:  (i) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per
million by weight; or (ii) reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million
by weight; or (iii) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such
waters or wastes.  Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information
relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for
the approval of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall
be commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing. 
97.04   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance.  In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.  The substances restricted are:
   1.   High Temperature.  Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150 degrees F (65 degrees C).
   2.   Fat, Oil, Grease.  Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter. 
   3.   Viscous Substances.  Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees F and 150 degrees
F (0 degrees to 65 degrees C).
   4.   Garbage.  Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to
such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than
one-half inch in any dimension.
   5.   Acids.  Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not. 
   6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes.  Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials. 
   7.   Odor or Taste.  Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste
or odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may
be established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   8.   Radioactive Wastes.  Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-
life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations. 
   9.   Excess Alkalinity.  Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5. 
   10.   Unusual Wastes.  Materials that exert or cause:
      A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
      B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein. 
   11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases.  Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair. 
   12.   Damaging Substances.  Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances
that react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes. 
   13.   Untreatable Wastes.  Waters or wastes containing substances that are
not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes
employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage
treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
   1.   Rejection.  Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the
public sewage system;
   2.   Pretreatment.  Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
   3.   Controls Imposed.  Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
   4.   Special Charges.  Require payment to cover the added cost of handling
and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under
the provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06   SPECIAL FACILITIES.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.  Where preliminary treatment or
flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner’s expense.
97.07   CONTROL MANHOLES.
When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes.  Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent.  The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
97.08   TESTING OF WASTES.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole.  In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected.  Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.  (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. 
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples).
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01  When Prohibited            98.06  Maintenance of System
98.02  When Required              98.07  Systems Abandoned
98.03  Compliance with Regulations98.08  Disposal of Septage
98.04  Permit Required            98.09  Minimum Lot Area
98.05  Discharge Restrictions
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3 & 4])
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch, stream, pond,
lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the surface of the
ground.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3]) 
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall operate
and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to
the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an on-
site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
98.09   MINIMUM LOT AREA.
No permit shall be issued for any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system employing sub-surface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 15,000 square feet.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
 
99.01  Sewer Service Charges Required99.05  Lien for Nonpayment
99.02  Special Rates                 99.06  Deposit
99.03  Private Water Systems         99.07  Special Agreements Permitted
99.04  Payment of Bills
 
99.01   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES REQUIRED.
Each customer shall pay sewer service charges for the use of and for the
service supplied by the municipal sanitary sewer system based upon the amount
of water consumed as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Resident Customers.
 
Gallons Used Per Month Rate
0 to 1,000 gallons     $32.70 (minimum bill)
1,001 to 3,000 gallons $32.70 plus $2.35 per 1,000 gallons
3,001 to 8,000 gallons $37.40 plus $4.32 per 1,000 gallons
8,001 gallons or more  $59.00 plus $5.57 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. 278 - Jun. 19 Supp.)
On July 1 of each year, the sewer service charges shall be increased by 2.0%
over the rates in effect during the preceding year.
   2.   Nonresident Customers.  Nonresident customers of the City sanitary
sewer service shall be charged a sum equal to 150 percent of the monthly rate
charged to resident customers.  This charge shall apply to each separate use if
the customer is a temporary user.
   3.   Premises with Multiple Families or Businesses.  Premises having more
than one family or business unit located thereon and served by the sewer
system, but having only one water bill for the entire premises, shall be
charged the normal rate set forth above for the total amount of water service
attributable to the premises, and for each additional unit an additional amount
equal to the minimum monthly sewer service charge.
   4.   Home Operated Businesses.  Home operated businesses, which are
permitted under the Zoning Ordinance of the City, shall not be considered as an
additional business unit under the provisions of this section.
   5.   Water Used for Irrigation.  Each premises acquiring a second water
meter solely for irrigation purposes shall install said water meter as set out
in Section
91.11 of this Code of Ordinances.  Sewer service charges shall not be charged
for water used for irrigation or other purposes measured by said additional
water meter.
99.02   SPECIAL RATES.
Where, in the judgment of the Superintendent and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer charges
provided in Section
99.01 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the customer, a
special rate shall be proposed by the Superintendent and submitted to the
Council for approval by resolution.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.03   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
Customers whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay sewer
charges based upon the water used as determined by the City either by an
estimate agreed to by the customer or by metering the water system at the
customer’s expense. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.04   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All sewer service charges are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances.  Sewer service may be discontinued or
disconnected in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
99.05   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for sewer
service charges to the premises.  Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and
delinquent shall constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and
shall be certified by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the
same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.06   DEPOSIT.
There shall be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a $50.00 deposit intended to guarantee the payment of bills for
service.  Upon completion of 12 months of prompt payments, a refund of the
deposit, without interest, shall be made.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.07   SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
No statement in these chapters shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement, or contract between the Council, and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special conditions, rate, and cost as established by the
Council.
CHAPTER 100
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
 
100.01  Purpose                              100.04  Storm Water Management Utility
                                              Fee
100.02  Storm Water Drainage System District 100.05  Storm Water Management Utility
Established                                   Fund
100.03  Governing Authority
 
100.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a storm water management system
district and provide a means of funding the operation and maintenance of storm
water management facilities, including (but not limited to) retention basins,
detention basins, storm sewers, inlets, ditches and drains. 
100.02   STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
The entire City is hereby declared to be and is established as a Storm Water
Drainage System District.
100.03   GOVERNING AUTHORITY.
The Ely City Council is the governing body of the Storm Water Management
Utility.
100.04   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY FEE.
A storm water management utility fee of $2.00 per month for each dwelling unit
is hereby enacted.  The storm water management utility fee shall apply to, be
billed to, and paid by all property owners located in a storm water drainage
system district served by any single City utility.  The storm water management
utility fee shall be included with the City’s utility bills and shall be
collected in the same manner and under the same policies and conditions as the
City water bill.
100.05   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY FUND.
A storm water management utility fund is hereby established.  All proceeds of
the storm water management utility fee shall be deposited in said fund.  Said
proceeds shall be used to pay the costs associated with the ownership,
operation, and maintenance of storm water management facilities described
herein.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01  Purpose                          105.07  Littering Prohibited
105.02  Definitions                      105.08  Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.03  Sanitary Disposal Required       105.09  Waste Storage Containers
105.04  Health and Fire Hazard           105.10  Prohibited Practices
105.05  Open Burning Restricted          105.11  Recycling Program
105.06  Separation of Yard Waste Required
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety and welfare as may result
from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from
public and private places.
   2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
   3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all
offal, excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all residences. 
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage. 
The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings. 
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume.  Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
   7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating or transacting business in
any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form. 
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple-
family dwelling up to and including four separate dwelling units.
   10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities.  The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
   11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible
and non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
   13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301) 
   14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities.  Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of
the Code of Iowa.  Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
      A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
      B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
      C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
      D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
      E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
105.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all refuse
accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance.  Any such
accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days shall
be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657) 
105.04   HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation or fire hazard.
105.05   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
No person shall allow, cause or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(IAC, 567-23.2[455B] and 567-100.2)
   1.   Disaster Rubbish.  The open burning of rubbish, including landscape
waste, for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an
officially declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of
any structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3a])
   2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings.  The open burning of trees and tree trimmings
at a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in
compliance with the rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources. 
(IAC, 567-23.2[3b])
   3.   Flare Stacks.  The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided
such open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules
of the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3c])
   4.   Landscape Waste.  The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises.  However, the burning of landscape waste produced
in clearing, grubbing and construction operations shall be limited to areas
located at least one-fourth mile from any building inhabited by other than the
landowner or tenant conducting the open burning.  Rubber tires shall not be
used to ignite landscape waste. 
(IAC, 567-23.2[3d])
   5.   Recreational Fires.  Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources.  Rubber
tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3e])
   6.   Training Fires.  Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide
training of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided
that the training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by
the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3g])
7.   Agricultural Structures.  The open burning of agricultural structures if
in accordance with rules and limitations established by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3i])
   8.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building.  The controlled burning of
a demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3j])
   9.   Variance.  Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources. 
(IAC, 567-23.2[2])
105.06   SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other solid
waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted or burned on the
premises or deposited at the City’s yard waste disposal site.  As used in this
section, “yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden
waste, brush, and trees.  Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.07   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose.  When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the
motor vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists
as to which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.08   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste.  Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources.  As used in this section, “toxic and hazardous waste” means
waste materials, including (but not limited to) poisons, pesticides,
herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological waste, flammable or explosive
materials, and similar harmful waste that requires special handling and that
must be disposed of in such a manner as to conserve the environment and protect
the public health and safety. 
(IAC, 567-100.2) 
(IAC, 567-102.13[2] and 400-27.14[2])
105.09   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   1.   Container Specifications.  Waste storage containers shall comply with
the following specifications:
      A.   The contractor under contract with the City shall provide a 64-
gallon or 96-gallon solid wheeled cart for the storage and collection of solid
waste.  The cart is, and remains, the property of the contractor, who shall be
responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement of said cart due to
wear and tear from ordinary use. 
      B.   Commercial.  Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or
renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse accumulates
and where its storage in portable containers as required above is impractical,
shall maintain metal bulk storage containers approved by the City.
   2.   Storage of Containers.  Residential solid waste containers shall be
stored upon the residential premises.  Commercial solid waste containers shall
be stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes.  The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel.  All owners of residential and
commercial premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and
yard waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around
neighboring yards and streets.
   3.   Location of Containers for Collection.  Containers for the storage of
solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed at the curb or alley line by
the owner or occupant of the premises served.  Containers or other solid waste
placed at the curb line shall not be so placed more than twelve hours in
advance of the regularly scheduled collection day and shall be promptly removed
from the curb line following collection.
   4.   Nonconforming Containers.  Solid waste placed in containers that are
not in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
105.10   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
   1.   Unlawful Use of Containers.  Deposit refuse in any solid waste
containers not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of
such containers. 
   2.   Interfere with Collectors.  Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service. 
   3.   Incinerators.  Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed
for high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
   4.   Scavenging.  Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out
for collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
105.11   RECYCLING PROGRAM.
The City shall provide for the collection of recyclable material in accordance
with the provisions of the contract between the City and the collector.  Each
residential unit shall be provided with a 64-gallon or 96-gallon solid wheeled
cart for the storage and collection of recyclable waste, said cart to be
provided by the contractor under contract with the City.  The cart is, and
remains, the property of the contractor, who shall be responsible for the
maintenance, repair, and replacement of said cart due to wear and tear from
ordinary use.  All recyclable material shall be separated and prepared for
collection in accordance with the rules and regulations as established by the
collector.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01  Collection Service     106.06  Right of Entry
106.02  Collection Vehicles    106.07  Contract Requirements
106.03  Loading                106.08  Collection Fees
106.04  Frequency of Collection106.09  Lien for Nonpayment
106.05  Bulky Rubbish
 
106.01   COLLECTION SERVICE.
The City shall provide by contract for the collection of solid waste, except
bulky rubbish as provided in Section
106.05, from residential premises only.  The owners or operators of commercial,
industrial, or institutional premises shall provide for the collection of solid
waste produced upon such premises.
106.02   COLLECTION VEHICLES.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction.  They shall be
cleaned to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be
maintained in good repair.
(IAC, 567-104.9[455B])
106.03   LOADING.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any solid
waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will not
fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or loss
of material.  Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04   FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once each
week.
106.05   BULKY RUBBISH.
Bulky rubbish that is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal manner
of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request.
106.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter; however,
solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other residential
buildings.
106.07   CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing
or disposing of solid waste from residential premises for the City without
first entering into a contract with the City.  This section does not prohibit
an owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises owned,
occupied or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of properly in
an approved sanitary disposal project.  Furthermore, a contract is not required
for the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading
or excavation activities, provided that all such materials are conveyed in
tight vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none
of the material being transported is spilled upon any public right-of-way.
106.08   COLLECTION FEES.
The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following.  In addition, the City finds that the availability of a yard waste
site is beneficial to the residents and businesses of the City and there shall
be levied and collected a fee to provide for maintenance of the site and
handling of the yard waste deposited at the site by residents and businesses of
the City, as follows:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449)
   1.   Schedule of Fees.  The fees for solid waste collection and disposal
service and the availability of a yard waste site, used or available, are as
follows:
      A.   Light Generation.  Each residential unit that is provided one 64-
gallon residential waste cart and one 64-gallon recyclable waste cart.
 
LIGHT GENERATION MONTHLY FEES
               FISCAL YEAR
                June 1, 2018    June 1, 2019    June 1, 2020    June 1, 2021
                through         through         through         through
                May 31, 2019    May 31, 2020    May 31, 2021    May 31, 2022
Solid Waste     $14.45 per      $14.73 per      $15.00 per      $15.43 per
Collection Fee  month           month           month           month
Yard Waste Site $0.50 per month $0.50 per month $0.50 per month $0.50 per month
Fee
Total Monthly   $14.95 per      $15.23 per      $15.50 per      $15.93 per
Fee             month           month           month           month
 
      B.   Standard Service.  Each residential unit that is provided one 64-
gallon residential waste cart and one 96-gallon recyclable waste cart.
 
STANDARD SERVICE MONTHLY FEES
                FISCAL YEAR
                June 1, 2018    June 1, 2019    June 1, 2020    June 1, 2021
                through         through         through         through
                May 31, 2019    May 31, 2020    May 31, 2021    May 31, 2022
Solid Waste     $18.25 per      $18.60 per      $18.97 per      $19.50 per
Collection Fee  month           month           month           month
Yard Waste Site $0.50 per month $0.50 per month $0.50 per month $0.50 per month
Fee
Total Monthly   $18.75 per      $19.10 per      $19.47 per      $20.00 per
Fee             month           month           month           month
 
      C.   Family Service.  Each residential unit that is provided one 96-
gallon residential waste cart and one 96-gallon recyclable waste cart.
 
FAMILY SERVICE MONTHLY FEES
                FISCAL YEAR
                June 1, 2018    June 1, 2019    June 1, 2020    June 1, 2021
                through         through         through         through
                May 31, 2019    May 31, 2020    May 31, 2021    May 31, 2022
Solid Waste     $22.57 per      $23.00 per      $23.45 per      $24.15 per
Collection Fee  month           month           month           month
Yard Waste Site $0.50 per month $0.50 per month $0.50 per month $0.50 per month
Fee
Total Monthly   $23.07 per      $23.50 per      $23.95 per      $24.65 per
Fee             month           month           month           month
 
   2.   Payment of Bills.  All fees are due and payable under the same terms
and conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained
in Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances.  Solid waste collection service may be
discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
(Ord. 279 - Jun. 19 Supp.)
106.09   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for solid
waste collection and disposal.  Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and shall be certified
by the Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as
property taxes. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
110.01  Franchise Granted           110.09  Indemnification
110.02  Rights and Privileges       110.10  Information
110.03  Right to Excavate           110.11  Applicable Regulations
110.04  Construction and Maintenance110.12  Quality and Quantity
110.05  Excavations                 110.13  Police Regulations
110.06  Utility Easements           110.14  Franchise Fee
110.07  Relocation Not Required     110.15  Management Fees
110.08  Relocation Reimbursement    110.16  Termination
 
110.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
(hereinafter called "Company,)" and to its successors and assigns the right and
non-exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in
the City of Ely, Iowa, (hereinafter called the "City,)" a gas distribution
system, to furnish natural gas along, under and upon the right-of-way, streets,
avenues, alleys and public places to serve customers within and without the
City and to furnish and sell natural gas to the City and its inhabitants. For
the term of this franchise, the Company is granted the right of eminent domain,
the exercise of which is subject to City Council approval upon application by
the Company. This franchise shall be effective for a twenty-five (25) year
period from and after the effective date of this ordinance. † 5
 
Notes
  †EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 268, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
5 City, was passed and adopted by the City Council on June 11, 2018.
   
110.02   RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa 2019, or as subsequently amended
or changed.
110.03   RIGHT TO EXCAVATE.
Company shall have the right to excavate in any public street for the purpose
of laying, relaying, repairing or extending gas pipes, mains, conduits, and
other facilities provided that the same shall be so placed as not to
unreasonably interfere with any above or below-ground utility services or
facilities which have been or may hereafter be located by or under authority of
the City.
110.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
The Company shall, excluding facilities located in private easements (whether
titled in Company exclusively or in Company and other entities), in accordance
with Iowa law including Company's tariff on file with and made effective by the
Iowa Utilities Board as may subsequently be amended ("Tariff,") at its cost and
expense, locate and relocate its existing facilities or equipment in, on, over
or under any public street or alley in the City in such a manner as the City
may reasonably require for the purposes of facilitating the construction
reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the street or alley. Relocation
expenses for other hard surfaces, including pedestrian and non-motorized
vehicle pathways, will be paid by the City. If the City has a reasonable
alternative route forthe street, alley or public improvements or an alternative
construction method, which would not cause the relocation of the Company
installations, the City shall select said alternative route, or construction
method. The City shall be responsible for surveying and staking the right-of-
way for City projects that require the Company to relocate Company facilities.
If requested the City shall provide, at no cost to the Company, copies of its
relocation plan and profile and cross section drawings. If tree and vegetation
removal must be completed by the City as part of the City's project and are
necessary whether or not utility facilities must be relocated, the City at its
own cost shall be responsible for said removals. If the timing of the tree/
vegetation removal does not coincide with the Company facilities relocation
schedule and Company must remove trees/vegetation that are included in the
City's portion of the project, the City shall either remove the material at its
cost or reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred to remove said
vegetation or trees. If project funds from a source other than the City are
available to pay for the relocation of utility facilities, the City shall
attempt to secure said funds and provide costs of relocation.
110.05   EXCAVATIONS.
In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public places for the
installation of gas pipes, conduits or apparatus, Company shall not
unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets and shall replace the surface,
restoring it to the condition as existed immediately prior to excavation.
Company agrees any replacement of road surface shall conform to current City
code regarding its depth and composition. The Company shall not be required to
restore or modify public right of way, sidewalks or other areas in or adjacent
to the Company project to a condition superior to its immediate previously
existing condition or to a condition exceeding its previously existing
condition to the extent any alterations are required for the City to comply
with city, state or federal rules, regulations or laws.
110.06   UTILITY EASEMENTS.
The City's vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground or public right-of-
way shall not deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain existing
facilities on, below, above, or beneath the vacated property. Prior to the City
abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley or public ground where the
Company has facilities in the vicinity, the City shall provide Company with not
less than sixty (60) days advance notice of the city's proposed action and,
upon request grant the Company a utility easement covering existing and future
facilities and activities. If the City fails to grant the Company a utility
easement for said facilities prior to abandoning or vacating a street, avenue,
alley or public ground, the City shall at its cost and expense obtain easements
for the existing Company facilities.
110.07   RELOCATION NOT REQUIRED.
The Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense, Company
facilities in the public right of way that have been relocated at Company
expense at the direction of the City at any time during the previous ten (10)
years.
110.08   RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT.
Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities as may be required here under, if
the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its existing facilities or
equipment in order to directly or indirectly facilitate the project of a
commercial or private developer or other non-public entity, City shall
reimburse or the City shall require the developer or non-public entity to
reimburse the Company for the cost of such relocation as a precondition to
relocation. The Company shall not be required to relocate in order to
facilitate such private project at its expense.
110.09    INDEMNIFICATION.
The Company shall indemnify and save harmless the City from any and all claims,
suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, on account of injury or damage to
any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the Company's
negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation or
maintenance of the natural gas facilities authorized by this franchise;
provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify
and save harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent arising from
the negligence of the City, its officers, employees or agents.
110.10    INFORMATION. 
Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right of way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in the public right of way, including documents,
maps and other information in paper or electronic or other forms
("Information"). The Company and City recognize the Information may in whole or
part be considered a confidential record under state or federal law or both.
Upon receipt of a request from a third party for information concerning
information about the Company's facilities within the City, the City will
promptly submit same to Company. If the Company believes any of the information
requested constitutes a trade secret which may otherwise be protected from
public disclosure by state or federal law, or otherwise exempt from disclosure
under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission Critical Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to
18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes
and regulations may be amended from time to time, then the Company shall
provide the City with a written explanation of the basis for such assertion of
confidentiality or exemption from disclosure within ten (10) days.
110.11    APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
The Company shall extend its mains and pipes and operate, and maintain the
system in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities
Board or its successors and Iowa law.
110.12    QUALITY AND QUANTITY.
During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish natural gas in the
quantity and quality consistent and in accordance with the applicable
regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board, the Company's tariff made effective by
the Iowa Utilities Board or its successors and Iowa law.
110.13    POLICE REGULATIONS.
All reasonable and proper police regulations shall be adopted and enforced by
the City for the protection of the facilities of the Company.
110.14    FRANCHISE FEE.
A franchise fee of 1% (one percent) is imposed upon, and shall be collected
from, the natural gas customers of the Company receiving service and located
within the corporate limits of the City. The franchise fee shall be imposed
upon the gross receipts, minus uncollectible accounts, generated from sales of
natural gas and distribution service:
   1.   The City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed only once
in any 24-month period.
   2.   The Company will commence collecting franchise fees on or before the
first Company billing cycle of the first calendar month following ninety (90)
days of receipt of information required of the City to implement the franchise
fee, including the City's documentation of customer classes subject to or
exempted from City-imposed franchise fee.
   3.   The City shall be solely responsible for identifying customer classes
subject to or exempt from paying the City imposed franchise fee. The Company
shall have no obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in annexed
areas until and unless such ordinances have been provided to the Company by
certified mail. The Company shall commence collecting franchise fees in the
annexed areas no sooner than sixty (60) days after receiving annexation
ordinances from the City.
   4.   The Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or
refund any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted
to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City's imposition of franchise fees or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall
reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such
data or information.
110.15    MANAGEMENT FEES.
Upon implementation of a franchise fee, the City shall not, pursuant to Chapter
480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose or charge Company right of way management
fees for permits for Company construction, maintenance, repairs, excavation,
pavement cutting or inspections of Company work sites and projects or related
matters.
110.16    TERMINATION.
Either City or Company ("party") may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the nonbreaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have sixty (60) days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the
non-breaching party, and the parties agree upon a shorter or longer period for
cure. If the breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching
party may terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in
breach of this franchise if it has operated in compliance with state or federal
law. A party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the
alleged breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other
party.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
111.01  Franchise Granted  111.08  Continuous Service
111.02  Poles and Wires    111.09  Franchise Fee
111.03  Excavations        111.10  Annexation
111.04  Relocation         111.11  Fee Remittance
111.05  Grant of Easement  111.12  Modification of Fee
111.06  Pruning/Maintenance111.13  Term of Franchise
111.07  Compliance         111.14  Entire Agreement.
 
111.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to Interstate Power and Light Company, hereinafter
referred to as the "Company," its successors and assigns, the right and non-
exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, reconstruct, erect, maintain and
operate in the City, works and plants for the manufacture and generation of
electricity and a distribution system for electric light, heat and power and
the right to erect and maintain the necessary poles, lines, wires, conduits and
other appliances for the distribution of electric current along, under and upon
the streets, alleys and public places in the said City to supply individuals,
corporations, communities, and municipalities both inside and outside of said
City with electric light, heat and power for the period of twenty-five (25)
years; also the right of eminent domain as provided in Section 364.2 of the
Code of Iowa.† 6
 
Notes
  †EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 266, adopting an electric franchise for the
6 City, was passed and adopted on June 11, 2018.
   
111.02   POLES AND WIRES.
The poles, lines, wires, circuits, and other appliances shall be placed and
maintained so as not to unnecessarily interfere with the travel on said
streets, alleys, and public places in said City nor unnecessarily interfere
with the proper use of the same, including ordinary drainage, or with the
sewers, underground pipe and other property of the City. The said Company, its
successors and assigns shall hold the City free and harmless from all damages
to the extent arising from the negligent acts or omissions of the Company in
the erection or maintenance of said system.
111.03   EXCAVATIONS.
In making any excavations in any street, alley, or public place, Company, its
successors and assigns, shall protect the site while work is in progress by
guards, barriers or signals, shall not unnecessarily obstruct the use of the
streets, and shall back fill all openings in such manner as to prevent settling
or depressions in surface, pavement or sidewalk of such excavations with same
materials, restoring the condition as nearly as practical. The Company shall
not be required to restore or modify public right of way, sidewalks or other
areas in or adjacent to the Company project to a condition superior to its
immediate previously existing condition.
111.04   RELOCATION.
The Company shall, at its cost, locate and relocate its existing facilities or
equipment in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in such
a manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley or any public improvement thereof, in or about any such street
or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such
improvement . If the City requires the Company to relocate facilities in the
public right of way that have been relocated at Company expense at the
direction of the City during the previous ten years, the reasonable costs of
such relocation will be paid by the City.
If the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its existing facilities
or equipment for any reason other than as specified above, or as the result of
the initial request for a commercial, private or other non-public development,
the Company shall receive payment for the cost of such relocation as a
precondition to relocating its existing facilities or equipment.
The City shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works
projects so as not arbitrarily to cause the Company unreasonable additional
expense in exercising its authority under this section. The City shall also
provide a reasonable alternative location for the Company's facilities as part
of its relocation request.
111.05   GRANT OF EASEMENT.
Prior to the city abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley or public
ground where the Company has electric facilities, the City shall grant the
Company a utility easement for said facilities. If the City does not grant the
Company a utility easement for said facilities prior to abandoning or vacating
a street, avenue, alley or public place, the City shall at its cost and expense
obtain easements for existing Company facilities.
111.06   PRUNING/MAINTENANCE.
The Company is authorized and empowered to prune or remove at Company expense
any tree extending into any street, alley or public grounds to maintain
electric reliability, safety, to restore utility service and to prevent limbs,
branches or trunks from interfering with the wires and facilities of the
Company. The pruning and removal of trees shall be performed in accordance with
Company's then current line clearance vegetation plan as filed and approved by
the Iowa Utilities Board, as well as all applicable codes and standards
referenced therein.
111.07   COMPLIANCE.
During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish electric energy in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board and the
Company's tariffs . The Company will maintain compliance with Iowa Utilities
Board regulatory standards for reliability.
111.08   CONTINUOUS SERVICE.
Service to be rendered by the Company under this franchise shall be continuous
unless prevented from doing so by fire, acts of God, unavoidable accidents or
casualties, or reasonable interruptions necessary to properly service the
Company's equipment, and in such event service shall be resumed as quickly as
is reasonably possible.
111.09   FRANCHISE FEE.
There is hereby imposed a franchise fee of one percent (1%) upon the gross
revenue generated from sales of electricity by the Company within the corporate
limits of the City. The Company shall begin collecting the franchise fee upon
receipt of written approval of the required tax rider tariff from the Iowa
Utilities Board.
The amount of the franchise fee shall be shown separately on the utility bill
to each customer. The Company shall remit franchise fee receipts to the City no
more frequently than on or before the last business day of the month following
each calendar year quarter.
The Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or refund
any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted to the
City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or information in
defense of the City's imposition of franchise fees or the Company is required
to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating any franchise fee
refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall reimburse the
Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such data or
information.
111.10   ANNEXATION.
Upon receipt of a final unappealable order or approval authorizing annexation,
or changes in the corporate limits of said City, the City Clerk shall provide
written notification by certified mail to an officer of Company of such
annexation or change in the limits of said City, and the Company shall apply
the franchise fee to its customers who are affected by the annexation or change
in the corporate limits of the City, commencing on an agreed upon date which is
not less than ninety (90) days from receipt of the information required of the
City to implement the franchise fee. The Company shall have no obligation to
collect franchise fees from customers in any annexed area until and unless the
following have all been provided to the Company by certified mail:  such final
and unappealable orders or approvals, the City's list of City utility accounts
exempt from the franchise fee in the annexed area, and the City's verified
utility customer service address list for the annexed area.
111.11   FEE REMITTANCE.
The Company shall remit franchise fee revenues, minus uncollectible amounts, to
the City no more frequently than on or before the last business day of the
month following each calendar year quarter. Company shall notify City at least
thirty (30) days in advance of any changes made in this collection schedule,
including any alterations in the calendar quarters or any other changes in the
remittance period.
111.12   MODIFICATION OF FEE.
The City shall give the Company a minimum 6-month notice prior to the request
to implement any adjustment in the percentage of franchise fee to be collected
pursuant to Section
111.09 hereof. The City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed
only once in any 24-month period. When any such ordinance increasing,
decreasing, modifying or eliminating the franchise fee shall become effective,
billings reflecting the change shall commence on an agreed upon date which is
not less than ninety (90) days, following written notice to the Company by
certified mail. The Company shall not be required to implement such new
percentage unless and until it determines that it has received appropriate
official documentation of final action by the City Council. In no event may the
percentage of franchise fee exceed the statutory amount authorized by Iowa law.
111.13   TERM OF FRANCHISE.
The term of the franchise granted by this Ordinance and the rights granted
thereunder shall continue for the period of twenty-five (25) years from and
after written acceptance by the Company. The acceptance shall be filed with the
City Clerk within ninety (90) days from passage of this Ordinance.
111.14   ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
This Ordinance sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be supplemented, superseded, modified or otherwise amended without the written
approval and acceptance of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no
event shall the City enact or maintain any Ordinance or place any limitations,
either operationally or through the assessment of fees other than those
approved and accepted by the Company within this Ordinance, that create
additional burdens upon the Company, or which delay utility operations.
CHAPTER 112
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION FRANCHISE
 
112.01  Grant of Franchise112.06  Continuous Service
112.02  Indemnification   112.07  Non-Exclusivity
112.03  Relocation        112.08  Term
112.04  Modern System     112.09  Amendments
112.05  Pruning
 
112.01   GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
There is hereby granted to ITC MIDWEST LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of ITC
HOLDINGS CORP., its successors and assigns (the “Company”) the right and
franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate  in the City a
transmission system for electric power and the right to erect and maintain the
necessary poles, lines, wires, conduits, and other appliances or equipment and
substations for the transmission of electric current (collectively, the
“facilities”) along, under and upon the streets, avenues, alleys and public
places in the City, and also includes the right to erect and maintain upon the
streets, avenues, alleys and public  places, transmission lines through the
City for the period of 25 years;† 7  the franchise also includes the right of
eminent domain as provided in Section 364.2 of the Code of Iowa.
 
Notes
7 †EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 223, adopting an electric transmission
  franchise for the City, was passed and adopted on February 14, 2011.
112.02   INDEMNIFICATION.
The facilities shall be placed and maintained so as not to unnecessarily
interfere with the travel on the streets, alleys, and public places in the City
or unnecessarily interfere with the proper use of the same, including ordinary
drainage, or with the sewers, underground pipe and other property of the City,
and the Company shall hold the City free and harmless from all damages arising
from the negligent acts or omissions of the Company in the erection or
maintenance of the transmission system.
112.03   RELOCATION.
Except as provided herein below, the Company shall, at its cost and expense,
locate and relocate its facilities in, on, over or under any public street or
alley in the City in such a manner as the City may at any time reasonably
require for the purposes of facilitating the construction, reconstruction,
maintenance, or repair of the street or alley or any public improvement of, in,
or about any such street or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient
operation of any such improvement.  If the City orders or requests the Company
to relocate its facilities for the primary benefit of a commercial or private
project, or as the result of the initial request of a commercial or private
developer or other non-public entity, and such relocation is necessary to
prevent interference and not merely for the convenience of the City or other
non-public entity, the Company shall receive payment for the cost of such
relocation as a precondition to relocating its facilities.  The City shall
consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works projects so as
not arbitrarily to cause the Company unreasonable additional expense in
exercising its authority under this section.  The City shall also provide a
reasonable alternate location for the Company’s facilities.  The City shall
give the Company reasonable advance written notice to vacate a public right-of-
way.  Vacating a public right-of-way shall not deprive the Company of its right
to operate and maintain existing facilities until the reasonable cost of
relocating the same are paid to the Company.
112.04   MODERN SYSTEM.
The system authorized by this chapter shall be modern and up-to-date and shall
be kept in a modern and up-to-date condition.
112.05   PRUNING.
To promote public safety in proximity to its facilities and to maintain
electric reliability, the Company is authorized and empowered to prune or
remove at Company expense any trees or shrubs or parts thereto extending into
any street, alley, right-of-way, or public grounds.  The pruning shall be
completed in accordance with the then-current nationally accepted safety and
utility industry standards, as revised and updated from time to time.
112.06   CONTINUOUS SERVICE.
Service to be rendered by the Company under the franchise shall be continuous
unless prevented from doing so by fire, acts of God, unavoidable accidents or
casualties, or reasonable interruptions necessary to properly service the
Company’s equipment, and in such event service shall be resumed as quickly as
is reasonably possible.
112.07   NON-EXCLUSIVITY.
The franchise granted by this chapter shall not be exclusive.
112.08   TERM.
The term of the franchise granted by this chapter and the rights granted
hereunder shall continue for the period of 25 years from and after its
acceptance by the Company, as herein provided.  The anniversary date shall be
the date this franchise is filed with the City Clerk or otherwise becomes
effective by operation of law.
112.09   AMENDMENTS.
This chapter sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be superseded, modified, or otherwise amended without the approval and
acceptance of the Company.  Upon acceptance by the Company, this chapter shall
supersede, abrogate, and repeal any prior electric system ordinance between the
Company and the City as of the date this Ordinance is accepted by the Company. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the City enact any ordinance
or place any limitations, either operationally or through the assessment of
fees, that create additional burdens upon the Company, or that delay utility
operations.
CHAPTER 113
CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
113.01  Purpose                            113.12  Use of Property
113.02  Definitions                        113.13  Taxes, Insurance and Liability
113.03  Operation without Franchise        113.14  Service Repair, Rebates
113.04  Grant of Franchise                 113.15  Complaint Procedure
113.05  Franchise Term                     113.16  Theft of Cable Services or Tampering
113.06  Franchise Elections/Cost Thereof   113.17  Subscriber Privacy
113.07  Franchise Fees                     113.18  Grantee Subject to Further Regulation
113.08  Franchise Revocation               113.19  Services to Be Furnished to City
113.09  Performance and Franchise Bond     113.20  Cable Services and Rates
113.10  Transfer of Control/Right of First 113.21  Submission of Proposals to Voters, Multiple
Refusal                                     Proposals
113.11  Construction and Maintenance
Regulations
 
113.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate broadband telecommunication systems
within the City which operate pursuant to a City franchise and to establish
standards, regulations, and procedures for the granting, maintenance, and
operation of broadband telecommunication franchises in the City.  This chapter
shall be known and may be cited as the Cable TV Regulatory Ordinance.
113.02   DEFINITIONS.
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall, for the
purposes of this chapter, have the meanings ascribed to them, as follows:
   1.   “Cable television system” means any facility that, in whole or in part,
receives directly or indirectly over the air and amplifies or otherwise
modifies signals transmitting programs broadcast by one or more television
stations and distributes such signals by wire, cable, microwave, satellite, or
other means to persons who subscribe to such service.
   2.   “Channel” means the segment of the electromagnetic spectrum to which a
source of television transmission is assigned.
   3.   “FCC” means the Federal Communications Commission, a Federal agency
constituted by the Communications Act of 1934 as amended.
   4.   “Franchise” means the rights, privileges and authority granted by the
City to the grantee hereunder and shall include all of the terms and conditions
of this chapter.
   5.   “Grantee” means the person granted the franchise in the City under this
chapter.  When the context so requires, the term grantee shall mean and include
the grantee, its officers, agents, employees, servants and independent
contractors thereof.
   6.   “Gross revenue” means any and all compensation, in whatever form,
exchange or otherwise, derived from the provision of all cable services in the
City.
   7.   “Subscriber” means a recipient of cable television service.
113.03   OPERATION WITHOUT FRANCHISE.
It is unlawful for any person to construct, use, or operate a cable television
system or any portion of such a system upon property or easements of the City
without grant of franchise to do so under the terms and conditions of this
chapter.  Any person found in violation of this provision shall be guilty of a
simple misdemeanor.
113.04   GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
Subsequent to an election and approval of the qualified voters of the City to a
granting of a franchise under the terms and conditions of this chapter in the
time and manner specified under the laws of the State of Iowa, the Council
shall grant to the successful proposed grantee in the election a nonexclusive
franchise, right, and privilege to construct, erect, operate, modify, and
maintain in, upon, across, above, over, and under the highways, streets,
alleys, sidewalks, public ways, and public places now laid out or dedicated and
all extensions thereof, and additions thereto, in the City, any poles, wires,
cables, underground conduits, manholes and other television conductors and
fixtures necessary for the operation and maintenance of a cable television
system for the purpose of distributing television and radio signals and other
electronic impulses in order to furnish television and radio programs, and
various communications and other electronic services to the public.  The right
so granted includes the right to use and occupy the streets, alleys, public
ways and places and all manner of easements for the purpose herein set forth,
subject to various construction and use regulations as hereinafter expressed.
113.05   FRANCHISE TERM.
The franchise granted as set forth above shall terminate 25 years from the date
of the grant.  The grantee shall notify the City at least one year prior to the
expiration of its franchise as to whether or not the grantee intends to seek a
franchise renewal.  The method and procedure for franchise renewal shall then
be governed by the laws of the State of Iowa at that time.
113.06   FRANCHISE ELECTIONS/COST THEREOF.
Franchise elections under this chapter shall be conducted in the time and
manner prescribed by the laws of the State of Iowa.  The City’s cost of
conducting such a franchise election shall be borne by the proposed franchise
grantee in the election.  If more than one person is seeking franchise
authority in the same election, the winning grantee shall pay the cost of the
election.  An amount equal to the cost of the election shall be deposited with
the City in advance of the election by each person seeking franchise authority.
113.07   FRANCHISE FEES.
The grantee shall pay to the City three percent of its annual gross revenues
from the subscribers located within the City.  The first payment to the City
shall be due one year following the start of operations within the City and
shall be for that preceding year’s gross revenue.  Thereafter, payments shall
be made to the City on an annual basis and shall be due and payable on a date
mutually agreed upon by the Council and the grantee.  The grantee shall keep
complete records of accounts showing dates and payments received and shall by
April 15 following the end of each calendar year, furnish an annual accounting
in written form acceptable to the Council, which includes payment data as
prescribed above.  The City shall have the right to inspect the monthly service
charge records or any other records tending to substantiate the annual revenue
of the grantee from the City at the premises of the grantee during normal
business hours or at other reasonable time.
113.08   FRANCHISE REVOCATION.
If the grantee shall fail to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter
or default in any of its obligations, except for causes beyond the reasonable
control of the grantee, and shall fail, within 30 days after written notice
from the City to commence, and within a reasonable time, complete the
correction of such default or non-compliance, the Council may revoke the
franchise and all rights of the grantee hereunder.
113.09   PERFORMANCE AND FRANCHISE BOND.
The grantee shall post a performance bond for the completion of the cable
television system in the amount of $25,000.00, payable to the City, to insure
construction of the system in the time and manner set forth in this chapter. 
Thereafter, the grantee shall maintain a franchise bond in the sum of
$5,000.00, payable to the City, to insure compliance with the terms in this
chapter.  All or part of these bonds may be waived by the Council at any time
if such is deemed unreasonable by the Council.
113.10   TRANSFER OF CONTROL/RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL.
No transfer of ownership or control of the cable television system shall be
effective, whether by forced or voluntary sale, lease, assignment or any other
form of disposition, without prior notice to and approval by the Council, but
such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.  Also, the grantee shall
allow the City a right of first refusal, wherein the City shall have the option
to purchase the cable television system from the grantee.  The grantee, 30 days
prior to the intended transfer or disposition of the system, shall submit to
the Council the terms of the proposed sale.  The City shall have the right to
purchase the cable television system from the grantee upon the same terms and
conditions as submitted to the Council.
113.11   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE REGULATIONS.
   1.   Within 30 days after the date of the grant of the franchise, the
grantee must undertake the necessary steps to secure authorization to operate
the cable television system from the FCC and other appropriate agencies
regulating such systems.  If authorization is not received within 12 months of
application, the franchise may be canceled by the Council.
   2.   Upon a grant of the franchise, the grantee may enter into contracts
with public utility companies and any other owners or lessees of poles or other
facilities located within or without the City to whatever extent may be
expedient and of advantage to grantee for the use of poles or other facilities
necessary for proper installation of the system.  Grantee may also obtain
right-of-way permits from appropriate State, County and federal officials
necessary to cross highways or roads under their respective jurisdictions, and
obtain permits from FAA to erect necessary and suitable antennas or other
structures and obtain other permits of any kind from other appropriate
governmental authorities.
   3.   Before beginning any construction, the grantee shall submit to the
Council for its approval, a plat of the proposed locations of fixtures, wires,
cables, etc.  The expense to the City for securing and engineering studies or
tests deemed necessary by the Council shall be borne by the grantee.
   4.   The grantee shall not place poles or other fixtures or do any plowing
or digging where the same will interfere with any gas, electric or telephone
fixture, water hydrant or main, and all such poles or other fixtures placed in
any street.  All transmission lines or poles shall be placed at the outer edge
of the sidewalk, if any, and inside the curb line or street line, if no curb
and then in such manner as to not interfere with the usual travel on said
street, sidewalk, alley or public way.
   5.   Grantee’s system, poles, wires, cables and fixtures shall be located,
erected and maintained in a manner that will not endanger or interfere with the
lives of persons or interfere with any improvements of the City or
unnecessarily hinder or obstruct the free use of streets, alleys, bridges,
easements or public property.
   6.   If, at any time, the City shall elect to alter or change the location
or grade of any street, alley or other public way, the grantee, upon notice
from the City, shall within a reasonable time, remove, replace and/or relocate
its poles, wires, cables, underground lines or conduits, manholes or other
fixtures at its own expense.
   7.   Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon overhanging
streets, alleys, sidewalks and public ways and places in the City so as to
prevent the branches of such trees and shrubbery from coming into contact with
wires and cables of grantee.  All such trimming shall be at expense of grantee.
   8.   Wherever, within the City, telephone and other utility lines and cables
are underground or subsequently placed underground, grantee shall place its
cables and wires underground.
   9.   In the case of disturbance of public pavement, sidewalks, public and
private driveways, ground and any other surfacing, the grantee shall, at its
own expense and in a manner approved by the City, replace and restore all
paving, sidewalks, driveways, ground, bushes, grass, plantings, and similar
items, or surface of any street or alley disturbed, in as good condition as
before said work was commenced.  All restorations of streets and alleys shall
be approved by the City Council member responsible for administration of
streets and alleys.  Any engineering studies or test deemed necessary by such
official shall be borne by grantee.
   10.   Grantee shall, upon the request of any person authorized by the City
to move a building within the City, temporarily remove, raise or lower its
wires or cables to permit the moving of the building.  The expense of such
shall be paid by the person requesting same and the grantee shall have the
authority to require such payment in advance.  The grantee shall be given not
less than five days’ advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   11.   Any opening or obstruction in the streets or other public ways made by
the grantee in the course of the construction, operation, maintenance or
removal of cable installation shall be guarded and protected at all times by
the placement of adequate barriers, fences or boarding during periods of dusk
and darkness and shall otherwise be clearly designated by warning lights.  The
grantee shall, whenever it is deemed necessary by the Council, install such
steel plates as may be necessary to allow a public roadway to remain open while
the grantee is in the course of construction, operation or maintenance of its
cable television system.
   12.   All construction, operation and maintenance of the cable television
system shall be in full compliance with such portions of the National Building
and Electrical Code and National Electric Safety Code as may be applicable and
as may be amended from time to time and shall be in full compliance with all
other City, County and State codes and ordinances as may be applicable
including FAA and FCC rules and regulations.
   13.   The cable television system contemplated bythis chapter shall be
constructed in a timely fashion.  Construction of the system shall be completed
within one year from the granting of the franchise unless the time is extended
by the City Council at the request of grantee for unforeseen circumstances
beyond the reasonable control of grantee.  Subsequently annexed territory in
the City shall be treated the same as existing City territory as far as service
extensions.  New connections within newly annexed territory shall be completed
within a reasonable time.
   14.   Grantee shall serve anyone in the City who lives within 300 feet of a
trunk or feeder cable.  Anyone desirous of service living at a greater distance
will be charged $1.00 per foot for an extension to the 300 foot limit.  If more
than one subscriber is involved, the cost of the extension will be prorated.
113.12   USE OF PROPERTY.
Grantee may use public property and with consent of the owner, private
property, as is necessary to construct, operate and maintain the cable
television system but shall not use or occupy any property which will, without
just compensation:
   1.   Impair the owner’s interest in or title thereto or adversely affect the
then value or character thereof or impair any mortgage or lease as may exist.
   2.   Cause or likely to cause a structural damage to improvements thereon or
damage or injure any utility service available thereto.
   3.   Create a public or private nuisance, cause any offensive odor or
undesirable effect or interfere with the safety, comfort or convenience of the
owner thereof, persons lawfully on or about the same.
   4.   Make void or voidable any insurance then in force effecting the same or
cause an increase in the rates applicable thereto.
113.13   TAXES, INSURANCE AND LIABILITY.
   1.   Grantee shall pay all taxes, fees and charges taxed, levied and charged
by all appropriate agencies of the City, County, State and federal governments
against grantee in a timelymanner.
   2.   The grantee shall, at all times, during the term of the franchise carry
and require their contractors to carry the following insurance:
      A.   Insurance in such form and with such companies as shall be approved
by the Council to protect the City and grantee from and against any and all
claims for injury or damage to persons or property, both real and personal,
caused by the construction, erection, operation, maintenance and removal of any
structure, equipment or appliance of the cable television system.  The amount
of such insurance shall not be less than $100,000.00 as to any one person,
$300,000.00 as to any one occurrence for injury or death to persons, and
$100,000.00 for damages to property, with so-called umbrella coverage of at
least $1,000,000.00.
      B.   Worker’s Compensation Insurance as prescribed by the laws of the
State of Iowa.
      C.   Automobile Insurance with limits of not less than $100,000.00/
$300,000.00 of public liability coverage and automobile property damage
insurance with a limit of not less than $100,000.00 covering all automobile
equipment, with so-called umbrella coverage of at least $1,000,000.00.
All of said coverage shall provide for at least 10-day notice to the City in
the event of material alteration or cancellation of any coverage afforded in
said policies prior to the date of said material alteration or cancellation
shall become effective.  Copies of all insurance policies required hereunder
shall be furnished to and filed with the City prior to the commencement of
construction or operation of the cable television system or the expiration of
prior policies, as the case may be.
   3.   Grantee shall at all times defend, indemnify, protect and save harmless
the City and other political subdivisions in the area from and against any and
all liability, from losses and physical damage to property and bodily injury or
death to persons which may arise out of or be caused by the construction,
operation, maintenance, removal of grantee’s cable television system and
resulting from or by any negligence, fault or misconduct on the part of
grantee, its agents, officers, servants and employees.  The grantee shall pay
all reasonable expenses incurred by the City in defending itself with regard to
all damages, penalties or other claims resulting from the acts of grantee, its
assigns, employees, agents, invitees or other persons.  Said expenses shall
include all out-of-pocket expenses such as attorney fees, travel expenses of
witnesses and attorneys, deposition costs, expert witness fees, reporter fee,
etc.
113.14   SERVICE REPAIR, REBATES.
   1.   The grantee shall, during the period of its franchise, furnish
reasonable, adequate, and efficient cable television reception service to the
subscribers and maintain its system in reasonable working order and repair and
provide adequate facilities for such maintenance, unless prevented from doing
so by natural disaster or emergency conditions or circumstances beyond the
control of grantee.
   2.   During the term of the franchise, the grantee shall maintain at least
one service person within 30 miles of the City.  All service calls shall be
promptly answered within a normal 40-hour work week but major outages, both
trunk and feeder, will be repaired at any time.  Grantee shall list a toll free
number for all of its Ely subscribers.
   3.   Grantee shall rebate subscription charges on a pro-rata basis for
interruptions of service during normal weekday working hours except for major
outages which shall entitle the subscriber to a rebate on a pro-rata basis for
each day of non-service.
113.15   COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   1.   The grantee shall supply, as subscribers are connected and reconnected
to the system, information concerning the procedures for making inquiries and
complaints.  Information shall include the name and address and toll-free
telephone number of the office to which complaints may be made on a 24-hour
basis.
   2.   Subscriber complaints may be directed to the Council but only after the
matters complained of were brought to the attention of grantee and within a
reasonable time failed to satisfactorily resolve the complaint.
   3.   If after hearing the complaint of anyone concerning the construction,
maintenance or operation of the cable television system, the Council finds that
the complaint is warranted, it may order grantee to make corrective action.  If
after a reasonable time, such corrective action was not performed by grantee,
the City Council may cancel grantee’s franchise after 30 days’ written notice
by regular mail at grantee’s last known address.
113.16   THEFT OF CABLE SERVICES OR TAMPERING.
No person, whether or not a subscriber to the cable television system, shall
willfully, maliciously or otherwise damage or cause to be damaged, any wire,
cable, conduit, apparatus, appurtenance or other equipment of the grantee
within the City, or commit any act with the intent to cause such damage or to
tap, tamper with, or otherwise connect any wire or device to a wire, cable,
conduit, apparatus, appurtenance or equipment of such grantee with the intent
to obtain the signal or impulse from the cable television system without
authorization from or compensation to such grantee, or to obtain cable
television or other communications services with the intent to cheat or defraud
grantee or any lawful charge to which grantee is entitled.  Any person who
violates this provision shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $100.00 or imprisoned for a period not to exceed 30 days.
113.17   SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY.
   1.   Except as may be required by court subpoena or court order, grantee
shall not provide any data concerning its individual subscribers or their use
of its services to any person or agency without written authorization to do so
executed by the subscriber.
   2.   No monitoring of subscriber use of the grantee services shall occur
without reasonable safeguards to maintain subscriber privacy and in no event
shall such monitoring occur without the knowledge and consent of subscriber.
113.18   GRANTEE SUBJECT TO FURTHER REGULATION.
Grantee shall be subject to such further regulation as the City shall hereafter
by ordinance provide as may become necessary due to unforeseen circumstances
and new developments in technology occur.
113.19   SERVICES TO BE FURNISHED TO CITY.
The following shall be furnished to the City by grantee without cost to the
City.
   1.   Basic service and such other optional programming as is requested by
the Council to the Ely Community Center.
   2.   A channel available for educational or announcement purposes.  Grantee
shall help with technical problems and provide processors-modulators for the
channel implementation.  This channel shall only be made available at the
request of the Council.  Grantee shall not be required to furnish production
equipment or character generators.
113.20   CABLE SERVICES AND RATES.
   1.   All persons seeking a cable television system franchise shall submit
written final proposals to the City Council at least 30 days prior to a
franchise election containing a list of all proposed services to be provided
and all rates and charges to subscribers for such services.
   2.   Subsequent to the franchise election, if a grantee is successful, his
initial services and the rates and charges for such services shall be as set
forth in the written proposal submitted prior to the election.
   3.   Any subsequent reduction in services or increase in rates and charges
to subscribers from the initial services offered or initial rates and charges
shall only be with the approval of the City Council who shall only approve of
reasonable changes in service and rates. 
113.21   SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS TO VOTERS, MULTIPLE PROPOSALS.
Absent a petition of voters submitted pursuant to Section 364.2, Code of Iowa,
the City Council shall decide which proposals, if any, for cable television
service shall be submitted to the voters at a City election.  The Council may
choose to submit one or more proposals to the voters.  In the event of a
proposal which is submitted by a petition as set forth in Section 364.2 of the
Code of Iowa, that proposal must be submitted to the voters.  Regardless of the
number of proposals that are submitted, a proposal for cable television service
must receive a majority vote of the votes cast to receive a grant of franchise.
CHAPTER 114
LINN COUNTY RURAL ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
114.01  Franchise Granted     114.13  Administrative Fees
114.02  Poles and Wires       114.14  Annexation
114.03  Excavations           114.15  Company Not Liable
114.04  Relocation            114.16  Fee Remittance
114.05  Grant of Easement     114.17  Modifying Fees
114.06  Trees                 114.18  Use of Fees
114.07  Standard of Service   114.19  Fee Refunds
114.08  Nonexclusive Franchise114.20  Obligation to Collect Modified or
                               Repealed
114.09  Continuous Service    114.21  Exemption from Other City Charges
114.10  Franchise Fee         114.22  Management Fees
114.11  Application of Fee    114.23  Franchise Term
114.12  Collection of Fee     114.24  Entire Agreement
 
114.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to Linn County Rural Electric Cooperative Association,
hereinafter referred to as the “Company”, its electrical energy suppliers as
necessary to provide Company distribution at 25,000 Volts or less, its
successors and assigns, the right and franchise to construct, reconstruct,
repair, maintain and operate in the City of Ely, Linn County, Iowa, systems for
the distribution of electric power, and the right to construct, reconstruct,
repair, maintain and operate the necessary poles, lines, wires, conduits and
other appurtenances for the distribution of electric power and energy along,
under and upon the streets, avenues, alleys and public ways in the City of Ely,
Linn County, Iowa; also the right to erect and maintain upon the streets,
avenues, alleys and public ways, distribution lines through the said City of
Ely, Linn County, Iowa to supply individuals, corporations, communities and
municipalities both inside and outside of said City with electric light and
power appurtenances for the period of twenty-five (25) years; also the right of
eminent domain as provided in Section 364.2 of the Code of Iowa.† 8
 
Notes
  †EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 267, adopting an electric franchise for the
8 City, was passed and adopted on June 11, 2018.
   
114.02   POLES AND WIRES.
The poles, lines, wires, circuits, and other appurtenances shall be placed and
maintained so as not to unnecessarily interfere with the travel on said
streets, alleys, and public places in said City nor unnecessarily interfere
with the proper use of the same, including ordinary drainage, or with the
sewers, underground pipe and other property of the City, and the said Company,
its successors and assigns shall hold the City free and harmless from all
damages to the extent arising from the negligent acts or omissions of the
Company in the erection or maintenance of said system.
114.03   EXCAVATIONS.
In making any excavations in any street, alley, or public place, Company, its
successors and assigns, shall protect the site while work is in progress by
guards, barriers or signals, shall not unnecessarily obstruct the use of the
streets, and shall back fill all openings in such manner as to prevent settling
or depressions in surface, pavement or sidewalk of such excavations with same
materials, restoring the condition as nearly as practical. The Company shall
not be required to restore or modify public right of way, sidewalks or other
areas in or adjacent to the Company project to a condition superior to its
immediate previously existing condition.
114.04   RELOCATION.
The Company shall, at its cost, locate and relocate its existing facilities or
equipment in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in such
a manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley or any public improvement thereof, in or about any such street
or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such
improvement.
If the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its existing facilities
or equipment for any reason other than as specified above, or as the result of
the initial request of a commercial or private developer, the Company shall
receive payment for the cost of such relocation as a precondition to relocating
its existing facilities or equipment.
The City shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works
projects so as not arbitrarily to cause the Company unreasonable additional
expense in exercising its authority under this section. The City shall also
provide a reasonable alternative location for the Company's facilities as part
of its relocation request.
114.05   GRANT OF EASEMENT.
Prior to the City abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley or public
ground where the Company has electric facilities, the City shall grant the
Company a utility easement for said facilities. If the City fails to grant the
Company a utility easement for said facilities prior to abandoning or vacating
a street, avenue, alley or public place, the City shall at its cost and expense
obtain easements for existing Company facilities. The Company shall not be
required to relocate, at its cost and expense, Company facilities in the public
right of way that have been relocated at Company expense at the direction of
the City in the previous ten years.
114.06   TREES.
The Company is authorized and empowered to prune or remove at Company expense
any tree extending into any street, alley or public grounds to maintain
electric reliability, safety, to restore utility service and to prevent limbs,
branches or trunks from interfering with the wires and facilities of the
Company.  The pruning and removal of trees shall be performed in accordance
with Company's then current line clearance vegetation plan as filed and
approved by the Iowa Utilities Board, as well as all applicable codes and
standards referenced therein.
114.07   STANDARD OF SERVICE.
During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish electric energy in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board and the
Company's tariffs. The Company will maintain compliance with Iowa Utilities
Board regulatory standards for reliability.
114.08   NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE.
The franchise granted by this Ordinance shall not be exclusive.
114.09   CONTINUOUS SERVICE.
Service to be rendered by the Company under this franchise shall be continuous
unless prevented from doing so by fire, acts of God, unavoidable accidents or
casualties, or reasonable interruptions necessary to properly service the
Company's equipment, and in such event, service shall be resumed as quickly as
is reasonably possible.
114.10   FRANCHISE FEE.
In its monthly billing the Company shall include a franchise fee of one percent
(1%) on the gross receipts from the sale of electricity to the Company's
electric customers located within the corporate limits of the City.
114.11   APPLICATION OF FEE.
The franchise fee shall be applied to all customers' bills in accordance with
Iowa Code Chapter 364.2 and 423B.5. The amount of the franchise fee shall be
shown separately on the utility bill to each customer.
114.12   COLLECTION OF FEE.
The Company will commence collecting franchise fees on or before the first
Company billing cycle of the first calendar month following ninety (90) days of
receipt of information required of the City to implement the franchise fee.
This information shall include but not be limited to a copy of the City's
Revenue Purpose Statement and written proof of legal adoption and publication
of the Revenue Purpose Statement, City's list of City utility accounts exempt
per Iowa law from the franchise fee, signed Nondisclosure Agreement pertaining
to the protection of the confidentiality of utility service address information
provided by the Company to the City, and the City's verified utility customer
service address list.
114.13   ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
The City recognizes that the costs of franchise fee administration are not
charged directly to the City and the City and Company agree that the Company
may only charge such administrative fees as are provided for in state statutes.
114.14   ANNEXATION.
Upon receipt of a final and unappealable order or approval authorizing
annexation, or changes in the corporate limits of said City, the City Clerk
shall provide written notification by certified mail to an officer of Company
of such annexation or change in the limits of said City, and the Company shall
apply the franchise fee to its customers who are affected by the annexation or
change in the corporate limits of the City, commencing on an agreed upon date
which is not less than ninety (90) days from receipt of the information
required of the City to implement the franchise fee.  The Company shall have no
obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in any annexed area until
and unless the following have all been provided to the Company by certified
mail: such final and unappealable orders or approvals, the City's list of City
utility accounts exempt from the franchise fee in the annexed area, and the
City's verified utility customer service address list for the annexed area.
114.15   COMPANY NOT LIABLE.
The Company shall not be liable for collecting franchise fees from any customer
originally or subsequently identified, or incorrectly identified, by the City
as being subject to the franchise fee or being exempt from the imposition of
franchise fees.
114.16   FEE REMITTANCE.
The Company shall remit franchise fee receipts to the City no more frequently
than on or before the last business day of the month following each calendar
year quarter. Company shall notify City at least thirty (30) days in advance of
any changes made in this collection schedule, including any alterations in the
calendar quarters or any other changes in the remittance periods.
114.17   MODIFYING FEES.
The City shall give the Company a minimum 6-month notice prior to the request
to implement any adjustment in the percentage of franchise fee to be collected
pursuant to Section
114.10 hereof. The City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed
only once in any 24 -month period. When any such Ordinance increasing,
decreasing, modifying or eliminating the franchise fee shall become effective,
billings reflecting the change shall commence on an agreed upon date which is
not less than ninety (90) days following written notice to the Company by
certified mail. The Company shall not be required to implement such new
percentage unless and until it determines that it has received appropriate
official documentation of final action by the city council. In no event may the
percentage of franchise fee exceed the statutory amount authorized by Iowa law.
114.18   USE OF FEES.
The City shall be solely responsible for the proper use of any amounts
collected as franchise fees, and shall only use such fees as collected for a
purpose as allowed by applicable law.
114.19   FEE REFUNDS.
The Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or refund
any franchise fees that have been collected from City customers and remitted to
the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or information
in defense of the City's imposition of franchise fees or the Company is
required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating any
franchise fee refunds for groups of customers or individual customers, the City
shall reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide
such data or information.
114.20   OBLIGATION TO COLLECT MODIFIED OR REPEALED.
Collection of the franchise fee shall cease at the earlier of the modification
or repeal of the franchise fee or the end of the ordinance term. 
   1.   The obligation to collect and remit the fee imposed by this Ordinance
is modified if:
      A.   Any other person is authorized to sell electricity to customers
within the corporate limits of the City and the City imposes a franchise fee or
its lawful equivalent at zero or a lesser rate than provided in this Ordinance,
in which case the obligation of Company to collect and remit franchise fee
shall be modified to zero or the lesser rate; or
      B.   The City adds additional territory by annexation or consolidation
and is unable or unwilling to impose the franchise fee upon all persons selling
electricity to consumers within the additional territory, in which case the
franchise fee imposed on the revenue from sales by Company in the additional
territory shall be zero or equal to that of the lowest fee being paid by any
other retail seller of electricity within the City; or
      C.   The Iowa General Assembly enacts legislation, or any Iowa court
issues a final judicial decision regarding franchise fees, or the Iowa
Utilities Board issues a final nonappealable order (collectively, "Final
Franchise Fee Action") that modifies, but does not repeal, the ability of the
City to impose a franchise fee or the ability of Company to collect from City
customers and remit franchise fees to City. Within sixty (60) days of Final
Franchise Fee Action, the City shall notify Company and the parties shall meet
to determine whether this Ordinance can be revised, and, if so, how to revise
the franchise fee on a continuing basis to meet revised legal requirements.
After Final Franchise Fee Action and until passage by the City of revisions to
the franchise fee Ordinance, Company may temporarily discontinue collection and
remittance of the franchise fee if in its sole opinion it believes it is
required to do so in order to comply with revised legal requirements.
   2.   The obligation to collect and remit the fee imposed by this Ordinance
is repealed, effective as of the date specified below with no liability
therefor, if:
      A.   Any other person is authorized to sell electricity to customers
within the corporate limits of the City and the City imposes a franchise fee or
its lawful equivalent at zero or a lesser rate than provided in this Ordinance,
in which case the obligation of Company to collect and remit franchise fee
shall be modified to zero or the lesser rate; or
      B.   The City adds additional territory by annexation or consolidation
and is unable or unwilling to impose the franchise fee upon all persons selling
electricity to consumers within the additional territory, in which case the
franchise fee imposed on the revenue from sales by Company in the additional
territory shall be zero or equal to that of the lowest fee being paid by any
other retail seller of electricity within the City; or
      C.   The Iowa General Assembly enacts legislation, or any Iowa court
issues a final judicial decision regarding franchise fees, or the Iowa
Utilities Board issues a final nonappealable order (collectively, "Final
Franchise Fee Action") that modifies, but does not repeal, the ability of the
City to impose a franchise fee or the ability of Company to collect from City
customers and remit franchise fees to City. Within sixty (60) days of Final
Franchise Fee Action, the City shall notify Company and the parties shall meet
to determine whether this Ordinance can be revised, and, if so, how to revise
the franchise fee on a continuing basis to meet revised legal requirements.
After Final Franchise Fee Action and until passage by the City of revisions to
the franchise fee Ordinance, Company may temporarily discontinue collection and
remittance of the franchise fee if in its sole opinion it believes it is
required to do so in order to comply with revised legal requirements.
114.21   EXEMPTION FROM OTHER CITY CHARGES.
The franchise fee shall be in lieu of any other payments to the City for the
Company's use of streets, alleys and public places in the said City and other
administrative or regulatory costs with regard to said franchise; and said
poles, lines, wires, conduits and other appurtenances for the distribution of
electric current along, under and upon the streets, alleys and public places in
the said City to supply individuals, corporations, communities, and
municipalities both inside and outside of said City with electric light, heat
and power shall be exempt from any special tax, assessment, license or rental
charge during the entire term of this Ordinance.
114.22   MANAGEMENT FEES.
The City shall not, pursuant to Chapter 480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose or
charge right-of-way management fees upon the Company or fees for permits for
Company construction, maintenance, repairs, excavation, pavement cutting or
inspections of Company work sites and projects or related matters.
114.23   FRANCHISE TERM.
The term of the franchise granted by this Ordinance and the rights granted
thereunder shall continue for the period of twenty-five (25) years from and
after its acceptance by the said Company.
114.24   ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
This Ordinance sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be superseded, modified or otherwise amended without the written approval and
acceptance of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the
City enact any Ordinance or place any limitations, either operationally or
through the assessment of fees other than those approved and accepted by the
Company within this Ordinance, that create additional burdens upon the Company,
or which delay utility operations.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01  License or Permit Required120.04  Action by Council
120.02  General Prohibition       120.05  Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03  Investigation             120.06  Amusement Devices
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122 & 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer or keep for sale, possess
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39 & 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a liquor license, wine or beer permit, the
Clerk may forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct an
investigation and submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred
in the application.  The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine
if they conform to the requirements of the City.  The Council shall not approve
an application for a license or permit for any premises that does not conform
to the applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of the liquor
control license or retail wine or beer permit and shall endorse its approval or
disapproval on the application, and thereafter the application, necessary fee
and bond, if required, shall be forwarded to the Alcoholic Beverages Division
of the State Department of Commerce for such further action as is provided by
law. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person or club holding a liquor license or retail wine or beer permit and the
person’s or club’s agents or employees shall not do any of the following:
   1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
(Ord. 274 - Aug. 18 Supp.)
   2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license or permit, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on a weekday, and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. on Sunday
and 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday; however, a holder of a liquor control
license or retail wine or beer permit granted the privilege of selling
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer on Sunday may sell or dispense alcoholic
liquor, wine, or beer between the hoursof 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. of
the following Monday, and further provided that a holder of any class of liquor
control license or the holder of a class “B” beer permit may sell or dispense
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer for consumption on the premises between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on Monday when that Monday is New
Year’s Day and beer for consumption off the premises between the hours of 8:00
a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday when that Sunday is the
day before New Year’s Day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b] & 123.150)
   3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona
fide credit card.  This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its
members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests or to
retail sales by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or
events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
   4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
   5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any
other beverage in or about the permittee's place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
(Subsections 3-5 - Ord. 274 - Aug. 18 Supp.)
   6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
   7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
   8.   Keep on premises covered by a liquor control license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the
Alcoholic Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except
mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption. 
However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the premises and are not
for immediate consumption may be consumed on the licensed premises, subject to
rules adopted by the Alcoholic Beverages Division.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
   9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
   10.   Allow any person other than the licensee, permittee, or employees of
the licensee or permittee to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic
liquor in any bottle or other container that is designed for the transporting
of such beverages, except as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
   11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[21])
120.06   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa.  (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a liquor control license or beer
permit, as specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
   1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical
or mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation
of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01  Definitions            121.06  Refunds
121.02  Permit Required        121.07  Persons Under Legal Age
121.03  Application            121.08  Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04  Fees                   121.09  Permit Revocation
121.05  Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
   1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means.  “Alternative nicotine product” does not include
cigarettes, tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated
as a drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under
Chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material.  However, cigarette shall not be
construed to include cigars.
   3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
   4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
   5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement,
or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of
the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or
employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access
location.
   6.   “Tobacco products” means the following:  cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for
both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
   7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance.  “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device.  “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Retail Cigarette Permits.  It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business.  The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
   2.   Retail Tobacco Permits.  It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit.  However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee shall be filed with the Clerk.  Renewal applications shall be
filed at least five days prior to the last regular meeting of the Council in
June.  If a renewal application is not timely filed, and a special Council
meeting is called to act on the application, the costs of such special meeting
shall be paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows: 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:   FEE:
July, August or September     $ 75.00
October, November or December $ 56.25
January, February or March    $ 37.50
April, May or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued.  Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable.  All permits expire on June 30
of each year.  The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of issuance of a permit.
(Ord. 275 - Aug. 18 Supp.)
121.06   REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa. 
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 & 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
No person shall sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any person
under 18 years of age.  The provision of this section includes prohibiting a
minor from purchasing tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, and cigarettes from a vending machine.  If a retailer or
employee of a retailer violates the provisions of this section, the Council
shall, after written notice and hearing, and in addition to the other penalties
fixed for such violation, assess the following:
   1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of $300.00.  Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under
this subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period
of 14 days.
   2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.  The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
   3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
   5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit.  The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22 and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder.  If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council.  The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a
retail permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce
within 30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01  Purpose                 122.10  Time Restriction
122.02  Definitions             122.11  Revocation of License
122.03  License Required        122.12  Hearing
122.04  Application for License 122.13  Record and Determination
122.05  License Fees            122.14  Appeal
122.06  Bond Required           122.15  Effect of Revocation
122.07  License Issued          122.16  License Exemptions
122.08  Display of License      122.17  Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
122.09  License Not Transferable
 
122.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against fraud,
unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by licensing
and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street. 
   2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
   3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business  hires,
leases or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out of
a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits.  Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03   LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting or in the business of a transient
merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein provided is in
violation of this chapter.
122.04   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
An application in writing shall be filed with the Clerk for a license under
this chapter.  Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name, permanent
and local address, and business address if any.  The application shall also set
forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature
of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business and the
length of time sought to be covered by the license.  An application fee of
$10.00 shall be paid at the time of filing such application to cover the cost
of investigating the facts stated therein.
122.05   LICENSE FEES.
The following license fees shall be paid to the Clerk prior to the issuance of
any license.
   1.   Solicitors.  In addition to the application fee for each person
actually soliciting (principal or agent), a fee for the principal of $25.00 per
year.
   2.   Peddlers or Transient Merchants.
      A.   For one day   $   10.00
      B.   For one week   $   15.00
      C.   For up to six months   $   20.00
      D.   For one year or major part thereof   $   25.00
122.06   BOND REQUIRED.
Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.07   LICENSE ISSUED.
If the Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be correct,
and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.
122.08   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter.  Each transient merchant shall display publicly such
merchant’s license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10   TIME RESTRICTION.
All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are in
force and effect only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
122.11   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the Clerk may
revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for the following reasons:
   1.   Fraudulent Statements.  The licensee has made fraudulent statements in
the application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
   2.   Violation of Law.  The licensee has violated this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
   3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety.  The licensee has
conducted the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare,
safety, order, or morals.
The Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local
address.  The notice shall contain particulars of the complaints against the
licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes allegedly violated, and
the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12   HEARING.
The Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice.  Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Clerk may proceed to a determination of
the complaint.
122.13   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
The Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the Clerk
finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this chapter or
State law.
122.14   APPEAL.
If the Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the Clerk shall make a part
of the record the reasons for such revocation or refusal.  The licensee, or the
applicant, shall have a right to a hearing before the Council at its next
regular meeting.  The Council may reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of
the Clerk by a majority vote of the Council members present and the Clerk shall
carry out the decision of the Council.
122.15   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.16   LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
   1.   Newspapers.  Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling
subscriptions to newspapers.
   2.   Club Members.  Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout,
Girl Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
   3.   Local Residents and Farmers.  Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
   4.   Students.  Students representing the Solon School District and College
Community School District conducting projects sponsored by organizations
recognized by the school.
   5.   Route Sales.  Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
   6.   Resale or Institutional Use.  Persons customarily calling on businesses
or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.
122.17   CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit
money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections
122.04 and
122.05.  All such organizations are required to submit in writing to the Clerk
the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought, names
and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the period
during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any commissions,
fees or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount thereof.  If
the Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or nonprofit
organization, the Clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license containing the
above information to the applicant.  In the event the Clerk denies the
exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may appeal the
decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.14 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 123
HOUSE MOVERS
 
123.01  House Mover Defined123.07  Permit Issued
123.02  Permit Required    123.08  Public Safety
123.03  Application        123.09  Time Limit
123.04  Bond Required      123.10  Removal by City
123.05  Insurance Required 123.11  Protect Pavement
123.06  Permit Fee         123.12  Overhead Wires
 
123.01   HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or similar
structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the building or
structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks, dollies, or
any other specialized moving equipment.
123.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building or
similar structure to be moved. 
123.03   APPLICATION.
Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the Clerk. 
The application shall include:
   1.   Name and Address.  The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
   2.   Building Location.  An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
   3.   Routing Plan.  A routing plan approved by the Mayor and public utility
officials.  The route approved shall be the shortest route compatible with the
greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04   BOND REQUIRED.
The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
$5,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the
State.  The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to
the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City
in the course of moving the building or structure.
123.05   INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration of
the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
   1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
123.06   PERMIT FEE.
A permit fee of $10.00 shall be payable at the time of filing the application
with the Clerk.  A separate permit shall be required for each house, building
or similar structure to be moved.
123.07   PERMIT ISSUED.
Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate, and
payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit.
123.08   PUBLIC SAFETY.
At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag persons
at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to the
sides, behind and ahead of the building or structure.  At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind and ahead of the
building or structure.
123.09   TIME LIMIT.
No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to remain
upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours without
having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.10   REMOVAL BY CITY.
In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section
123.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and assess
the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
123.11   PROTECT PAVEMENT.
It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building.  If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.12   OVERHEAD WIRES.
The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone, cable
television and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and replaced
in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 124
ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
 
124.01  Purpose                     124.05  Responsibilities of the Operator
124.02  Definitions                 124.06  Minors
124.03  Location Restrictions       124.07  Hours of Operation
124.04  Development Design Standards
 
124.01   PURPOSE.
The City Council finds:
   1.   Adult-oriented establishments require special consideration in order to
protect and preserve the health, safety, and welfare of the patrons of such
establishments as well as the citizens of the City.
   2.   Adult-oriented establishments, because of their very nature, have a
detrimental effect on both existing establishments around them and surrounding
residential areas adjacent to them.
   3.   The concern over sexually transmitted diseases is a legitimate health
concern of the City that demands reasonable regulation of adult-oriented
establishments in order to protect the health and well-being of the community.
   4.   Adult-oriented establishments, due to their very nature, have serious
objectionable operational characteristics, thereby contributing to blight and
downgrading the quality of life in the adjacent area.
   5.   The City wants to prevent these adverse effects and thereby protect the
health, safety, and welfare of its residents; protect residents from increased
crime; preserve the quality of life; preserve the property values and character
of the surrounding neighborhoods; and deter the spread of blight.
   6.   It is not the intent of this chapter to suppress any speech activities
protected by the First Amendment, but to enact content-neutral regulations that
address the secondary effects of adult-oriented establishments as well as the
health problems associated with such establishments.
124.02   DEFINITIONS.
   1.   “Adult bookstore” means an establishment that has a facility or
facilities, including (but not limited to) booths, cubicles, rooms, or stalls
for the presentation of adult entertainment, including adult-oriented films,
movies, or live performances for observation by patrons therein; or an
establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock-in-trade
for sale, rent, trade, lease, inspection, or viewing of books, films, video
cassettes, magazines, or other periodicals, which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matters depicting, describing, or relating
to specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities, as defined below.
   2.   “Adult entertainment” means any exhibition of any motion picture, live
performance, display, or dance of any type, which has as its dominant theme or
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on any actual or simulated
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as defined below.
   3.   “Adult motion picture theater” means an enclosed building used for
presenting material having as its dominant theme or distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as defined below for
observation by patrons of the building.
   4.   “Adult-oriented establishment” means any premises including, without
limitation, adult bookstores, or adult motion picture theaters.  It further
means any premises to which public patrons or members are invited or admitted
and which are physically arranged so as to provide booths, cubicles, rooms,
compartments, or stalls separate from the common area of the premises for the
purposes of viewing adult-oriented motion pictures, or wherein an entertainer
provides adult entertainment to a member of the public, a patron, or a member,
where such adult entertainment is held, conducted, operated, or maintained for
a profit, direct or indirect.  “Adult-oriented establishment” further includes,
without limitation, any premises physically arranged and used as such whether
advertised or represented as an adult entertainment studio, exotic dance
studio, encounter studio, sensitivity studio, or any other term of like import.
   5.   “Operator” means any person, partnership, or corporation operating,
conducting, maintaining, or owning any adult-oriented establishment.
   6.   “Specified anatomical areas” means less than completely and opaquely
covered human genitals, buttocks, female breasts below the areola, or male
genitalia.
   7.   “Specified sexual activities” means simulated or actual: (i) showing of
human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal; (ii) acts of sexual
activity, sodomy, or sadomasochism; or (iii) fondling or erotic touching of
human genitals, buttocks, or female breasts.
124.03   LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
An adult-oriented establishment shall be permitted within the City only in the
M-1 Industrial District upon receipt of a site plan and approval of a special
exception use permit in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Zoning
Ordinance, and only if it meets all of the location requirements set forth
below.  Distances provided hereinafter shall be measured by following a
straight line, without regard to intervening buildings, from the nearest point
of the property parcel upon which the proposed adult entertainment business is
to be located, to the nearest point of the parcel of property or zoning
district boundary line from which the proposed adult entertainment business is
to be separated.
   1.   Adult-oriented establishments shall be prohibited in or within 1,000
feet of the borders of a residential district.
   2.   Adult-oriented establishments shall be prohibited within 2,000 feet of
any church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or other place of religious worship.
   3.   Adult-oriented establishments shall be prohibited within 2,000 feet of
any public or private school offering general education for students between
the years of kindergarten and twelfth grade, public library, or museum.
   4.   Adult-oriented establishments shall be prohibited within 2,000 feet of
any registered daycare home or registered daycare business.
   5.   Adult-oriented establishments shall be prohibited within 2,000 feet of
any public park or playground.  For purposes of this section, bike paths,
trails, waterways, and boat launches shall not be deemed a public park.
   6.   Adult-oriented establishments shall be prohibited within 1,000 feet of
any other adult entertainment business.
   7.   Adult-oriented establishments shall be prohibited within 1,000 feet of
any existing establishment selling alcoholic beverages for consumption on
premises.
124.04   DEVELOPMENT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   1.   Exterior.  It is unlawful for an owner of an adult-oriented
establishment:
      A.   To allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from any point outside the establishment.
      B.   To allow the exterior portion of the adult-oriented establishment to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings, or pictorial representation of any manner depicting specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities. 
      C.   To allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted other
than a single color.
   2.   Signage.  The operator shall comply with the sign regulations of the
Zoning Ordinance.  Additionally, the display surfaces of the sign shall not
contain any flashing lights or photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial
representations of any manner, except for the name of the enterprise.
124.05   RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OPERATOR. 
Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator if such act
or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge, or approval of the
operator, or as a result of the operator’s negligent failure to supervise the
employee’s conduct, and the operator shall be punishable for such act or
omission in the same manner as if the operator committed the act or caused the
omission.
124.06   MINORS.
It is unlawful to allow a person who is younger than 18 years of age to enter
or be on the premises of an adult-oriented establishment at any time that the
establishment is open for business.  The operator must ensure that an attendant
is stationed at each public entrance at all times during regular business
hours.  The attendant shall prohibit any person under the age of 18 from
entering the establishment.  It shall be presumed that an attendant knew a
person was under the age of 18 unless such attendant asked for and was
furnished a valid driver’s license issued by a state reflecting that person’s
age.
124.07   HOURS OF OPERATION.
An adult-oriented establishment may remain open for business no longer than the
hours from between 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight, seven days a week.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
 
135.01  Removal of Warning Devices        135.08  Burning Prohibited
135.02  Obstructing or Defacing           135.09  Excavations 
135.03  Placing Debris On                 135.10  Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                           Maintenance
135.04  Playing In                        135.11  Failure to Maintain
135.05  Traveling on Barricaded Street or 135.12  Dumping of Snow 
Alley
135.06  Use for Business Purposes         135.13  Driveway Culverts
135.07  Washing Vehicles
 
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1) 
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or alley
in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business.  This
does not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking or
alley except in accordance with the following:
   1.   Permit Required.  No excavation shall be commenced without first
obtaining a permit.  A written application for such permit shall be filed with
the City and shall contain the following:
      A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
      B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is
to be made;
      C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
      D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
   2.   Public Convenience.  Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner
that will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street.
   3.   Barricades, Fencing and Lighting.  Adequate barricades, fencing and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard.  Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing or warning lights shall be paid to the
City by the permit holder/property owner.
   4.   Bond Required.  The applicant shall post with the City a penal bond in
the minimum sum of $5,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue
such bonds in the State.  The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for
any damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of administration of this section.  In lieu
of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $5,000.00 may be filed with the City.
   5.   Insurance Required.  Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
      A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident. 
      B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
   6.   Restoration of Public Property.  Streets, sidewalks, alleys and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
   7.   Inspection.  All work shall be subject to inspection by the City. 
Backfill shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved
street or alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and
approved by the City.  The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City
with notice at least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is
desired. 
   8.   Completion by the City.  Should any excavation in any street or alley
be discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder/property owner.
   9.   Responsibility for Costs.  All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner.  The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
   10.   Notification.  At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
   11.   Permit Issued.  Upon approval of the application and filing of bond
and insurance certificate, a permit shall be issued.  A separate permit shall
be required for each excavation.
135.10   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards. 
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes.  The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way.  Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 9
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
  †EDITOR’S NOTE:  See also Section
9 136.04 relating to property owner’s responsibility for maintenance of
  sidewalks.
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e]) 
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be thrown,
pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the business district it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent.  Arrangements for the prompt removal
of such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City. 
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs.  If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of
said repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01  Purpose                               136.10  Failure to Repair or
                                               Barricade
136.02  Definitions                           136.11  Interference with Sidewalk
                                               Improvements
136.03  Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.12  Encroaching Steps
Accumulations
136.04  Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.13  Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05  City May Order Repairs                136.14  Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06  Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.15  Defacing
136.07  Permit Required                       136.16  Debris on Sidewalks
136.08  Sidewalk Standards                    136.17  Obstructing Sidewalks
136.09  Barricades and Warning Lights         136.18  Sales Stands
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening. 
   2.   “Defective sidewalk” means any public sidewalk exhibiting one or more
of the following characteristics:
      A.   Vertical separations equal to three-fourths inch or more. 
      B.   Horizontal separations equal to three-fourths inch or more.
      C.   Holes or depressions equal to three-fourths inch or more and at
least four inches in diameter. 
      D.   Spalling over 50 percent of a single square of the sidewalk with one
or more depressions equal to one-half inch or more.
      E.   Spalling over less than 50 percent of a single square of the
sidewalk with one or more depressions equal to three-fourths inch or more. 
      F.   A single square of sidewalk cracked in such a manner that no part
thereof has a piece greater than one square foot.   
      G.   A sidewalk with any part thereof missing to the full depth.
      H.   A change from the design or construction grade equal to or greater
than three-fourths inch per foot.
   3.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.   
   4.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete
is placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
   5.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein.  For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any. 
   6.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement. 
   7.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
   8.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal, of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith. 
   9.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing
the surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly
from sidewalks.  If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or
accumulations within 24 hours, the City may do so and assess the costs against
the property owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove
snow, ice, and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b & e])
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall repair, replace, or reconstruct, or cause to
be repaired, replaced, or reconstructed, all broken or defective sidewalks and
maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition any sidewalk outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines or, in the absence of a curb, any
sidewalk between the property line and that portion of the public street used
or improved for vehicular purposes.  The abutting property owner may be liable
for damages caused by failure to maintain the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
136.05   CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d & e])
136.06   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
   1.   Required.  The owner of any property who seeks approval of a building
permit for work estimated to value $10,000.00 or greater shall, if no sidewalk
serves the property, install sidewalks abutting public streets if all of the
following conditions are met:
      A.   The lot is adjacent to a public street and curb and gutter are
available.
      B.   Sidewalks have not been installed abutting the public street for the
property prior to the request for building permit.
   2.   Ordered.  The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks
upon any street or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such
improvement to abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 384 of the Code of Iowa. 
136.07   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such person
has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work.  A written application for such permit
shall be filed with the City.
136.08   SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
   1.   Cement.  Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the
construction and repair of sidewalks. 
   2.   Construction.  Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction. 
   3.   Sidewalk Base.  Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-
drained soil.  Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of
compact, clean, coarse gravel or sand shall be laid.  The adequacy of the soil
drainage is to be determined by the City. 
   4.   Sidewalk Bed.  The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
   5.   Length, Width and Depth.  Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
      A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four
inches thick, and each section shall be no more than four feet in length.
      B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to
the curb.  Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
      C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
   6.   Location.  Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge
(edge nearest the abutting private property) on the property line, unless the
Council establishes a different distance due to special circumstances.
   7.   Grade.  Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
   8.   Elevations.  The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation
even with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb
for each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.   
   9.   Slope.  All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the
curb.
   10.   Finish.  All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood
float finish. 
11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities.  If a street,
road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area
shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street, road, or
highway with a sidewalk or path.  If a sidewalk or path is newly built or
reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed at
each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road. 
Curb ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall
be constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.09   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same.  The party or parties
using the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be
liable for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any
wrongful act or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or
employees or for any misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of
any failure to comply with provisions hereof.
136.10   FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12   ENCROACHING STEPS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.13   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
It is unlawful for a person to:
   1.   Stairs and Railings.  Construct or build a stairway or passageway to
any cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council. 
   2.   Openings.  Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on
any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the
public. 
   3.   Protect Openings.  Neglect to properly protect or barricade all
openings on or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.14   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.15   DEFACING.
It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing on
any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)   
136.16   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2]) 
136.17   OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS. 
   1.   Outdoor Seating.  Business establishments within the business district
may provide outdoor seating on the sidewalk provided they first receive written
permission from the City Administrator.  The outdoor seating can only occur
when the business is open and the outdoor seating shall not impede use of the
sidewalk by pedestrians.
   2.   Merchandise Displays.  It is unlawful for a person to place upon or
above any sidewalk, any goods or merchandise for sale or for display in such a
manner as to interfere with the free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians
on the sidewalk; in no case shall more than three feet of the sidewalk next to
the building be occupied for such purposes.
136.18   SALES STANDS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01  Power to Vacate               137.04  Findings Required
137.02  Planning and Zoning Commission137.05  Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                       Alleys
137.03  Notice of Vacation Hearing    137.06  Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council.  The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
   1.   Public Use.  The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified. 
   2.   Abutting Property.  The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] & 364.7[3])
EDITOR’S NOTE
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED       ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
27            March 9, 1923
73            June 17, 1976
113           July 10, 1989
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01  Established Grades138.02  Record Maintained
 
138.01   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
The grades of all streets, alleys and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.02   RECORD MAINTAINED.
The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01  Naming New Streets     139.04  Official Street Name Map
139.02  Changing Name of Street139.05  Revision of Street Name Map
139.03  Recording Street Names
 
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   1.   Extension of Existing Street.  Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.
   2.   Resolution.  All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission.  Proposed street names shall be
referred to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter.  The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of
the Mayor, and bearing the seal of the City under the following words:  “This
is to certify that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section
139.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Ely, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows:  “On (date), by official action of the
City Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map: 
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01  Enforcement Officer         145.05  Conduct of Hearing
145.02  General Definition of Unsafe145.06  Posting of Signs
145.03  Unsafe Building             145.07  Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                     Infraction
145.04  Notice to Owner             145.08  Costs
 
145.01   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
The Mayor is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
145.02   GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose of this
chapter, unsafe buildings.  All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 & 364.12[3a]) 
145.03   UNSAFE BUILDING.
“Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of the
following criteria:
   1.   Various Inadequacies.  Whenever the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, because of: (i) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; (ii)
faulty construction; (iii) the removal, movement, or instability of any portion
of the ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building; (iv) the
deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or (v) any other cause,
is likely to partially or completely collapse.
   2.   Manifestly Unsafe.  Whenever, for any reason, the building or
structure, or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for
which it is being used.
   3.   Inadequate Maintenance.  Whenever a building or structure, used or
intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is
likely to cause sickness or disease.
   4.   Fire Hazard.  Whenever any building or structure, because of
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by
the Fire Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
   5.   Abandoned.  Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on
a site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04   NOTICE TO OWNER.
The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building or
structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such is
found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof.  This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement officer.  If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to
be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the enforcement
officer. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h]) 
   1.   Notice Served.  Such notice shall be served by sending by certified
mail to the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of
Iowa, if the owner is found within the City limits.  If the owner is not found
within the City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered
mail or certified mail.  The designated period within which said owner or
person in charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement
officer shall begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
   2.   Hearing.  Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request
for hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.05   CONDUCT OF HEARING.
If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Notice.  The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the
date, time and place of hearing.
   2.   Owner’s Rights.  At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause
why the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
   3.   Determination.  The Council shall make and record findings of fact and
may issue such order as it deems appropriate.† 10
 
Notes
   †EDITOR’S NOTE:  Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
   Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
10 this Code of Ordinances.  Caution is urged in the use of this procedure.  We
   recommend you review the situation with your attorney before initiating
   procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.
145.06   POSTING OF SIGNS.
The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read:  “DO NOT ENTER.
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY.
CITY OF ELY, IOWA.”  Such notice shall remain posted until the required
demolition, removal or repairs are completed.  Such notice shall not be removed
without written permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter
the building except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of
demolishing the building.
145.07   RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice.  A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council.  As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.08   COSTS.
Costs incurred under Section
145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury.  Such costs shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special assessment against
the land on which the building or structure is located, and shall be certified
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes. 
In addition, the City may take any other action deemed appropriate to recover
costs incurred. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h]) 
CHAPTER 146
MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
 
146.01  Definitions                146.03  Foundation Requirements
146.02  Conversion to Real Property
 
146.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.1)
   1.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built structure built under the
authority of 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5403 which was constructed on or after June 15,
1976, and is required by federal law to display a seal from the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   2.   “Manufactured home community” means any site, lot, field, or tract of
land under common ownership upon which ten or more occupied manufactured homes
are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
building, structure or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of the manufactured home community.
   3.   “Mobile home” means any vehicle without motive power used or so
manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways and so designed, constructed or reconstructed
as will permit the vehicle to be used as a place for human habitation by one or
more persons; but also includes any such vehicle with motive power not
registered as a motor vehicle in Iowa.  A mobile home means any such vehicle
built before June 15, 1976, which was not built to a mandatory building code
and which contains no State or federal seals.
   4.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field or tract of land upon
which three or more mobile homes or manufactured homes, or a combination of any
of these homes, are placed on developed spaces and operated as a for-profit
enterprise with water, sewer or septic, and electrical services available. 
The term “manufactured home community” or “mobile home park” is not to be
construed to include manufactured or mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other
structures temporarily maintained by any individual, educational institution,
or company on its own premises and used exclusively to house said entity’s own
labor or students.  The manufactured home community or mobile home park shall
meet the requirements of any zoning regulations that are in effect.
146.02   CONVERSION TO REAL PROPERTY.
A mobile home or manufactured home that is located outside a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being placed
on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes except in
the following cases:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 435.26 & Sec. 435.35)
   1.   Retailer’s Stock.  Mobile homes or manufactured homes on private
property as part of a retailer’s or a manufacturer’s stock not used as a place
for human habitation.
   2.   Existing Homes.  A taxable mobile home or manufactured home that is
located outside of a manufactured home community or mobile home park as of
January 1, 1995, shall be assessed and taxed as real estate, but is exempt from
the permanent foundation requirement of this chapter until the home is
relocated.
146.03   FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
A mobile home or manufactured home located outside of a manufactured home
community or mobile home park shall be placed on a permanent frost-free
foundation system that meets the support and anchorage requirements as
recommended by the manufacturer or required by the State Building Code.  The
foundation system must be visually compatible with permanent foundation systems
of surrounding residential structures.  Any such home shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 103A.10 & 414.28)
CHAPTER 147
CONSTRUCTION SITE EROSION
AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
 
147.01  General                                                       147.07  Inspection, Notice to Comply, and Notice of
                                                                       Violation
147.02  Definitions                                                   147.08  Powers of Authority for Inspection
147.03  Erosion Control Permit Required                               147.09  Repair and Clean-Up of Damage
147.04  SWPPP Requirements                                            147.10  Enforcement
147.05  SWPPP Review and Approval Procedure                           147.11  Appeals
147.06  Requirements for Sites Covered by Iowa DNR General Permit No. 147.12  Fees Established
2
 
147.01   GENERAL.
   1.   Soil erosion contributes to the impairment of drainageways, increases
road and storm sewer maintenance costs, contributes to the destruction and
obstruction to traveled roadways creating a potential hazard for vehicular
traffic, and contributes to contamination and degradation of land surfaces and
streams, flooding and dusty conditions. This chapter establishes requirements
in an effort to control erosion and sediment transport.
   2.   Owners of certain construction sites are required, under rules
contained in General Permit No. 2, Storm Water Discharge Associated with
Construction Activities ("General Permit No. 2"), to obtain coverage through
the Iowa DNR under that permit.
   3.   Under its Municipal Stormwater National Pollution Discharge Elimination
System permit, which permit is on file at the offices of the City Clerk and the
City Engineer and is available for public inspection during regular office
hours, the city is required to develop, implement and enforce a program to
reduce pollutants in any storm water runoff from construction activities. Under
that permit the city is required to enforce the General Permit No.2.
   4.   This chapter establishes requirements for grading, filling, and
obtaining erosion control permits.
   5.   No person shall engage in land-disturbing activities requiring a NPDES
permit within the city limits unless they have received an erosion control
permit.
147.02   DEFINITIONS.
Wherever used in this chapter the terms listed below will have the meanings
indicated. Words using the present tense shall include the future; the singular
shall include the plural; the plural shall include the singular; the masculine
gender shall include the feminine; the term "shall" is always mandatory, and
the term "may" is permissive. 
   1.   "Applicant" means any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership, or proprietor of land to undergo land-disturbing activities.
   2.   "Building Official" means the City Clerk/Administrator or their
designee.
   3.   "Certified professional erosion and sediment control specialist" means
a specialist in the area of soil erosion and sediment control as certified by
the Soil and Water Conservation Society and the International Erosion Control
Association.
   4.   "City" means the City of Ely, Iowa.
   5.   "City Council" means the City Council of the City of Ely, Iowa.
   6.   "City Engineer" means the official so designated by the City Council or
designee.
   7.   "Civil engineer" means a professional engineer licensed in the State of
Iowa to practice civil engineering.
   8.   "Clearing and grubbing" means removal of unwanted growth, in the form
of trees, wood, shrubs, brush, or stumps on a site.
   9.   "Design Professional" means a licensed civil engineer or certified
professional erosion and sediment control specialist.
   10.   "Development" means the alteration of land from its existing state.
   11.   "Disturbed area" means the part of a site on which land-disturbing
activities take place. All land area that is to be disturbed at any time during
the project is to be counted in determining the disturbed area, even if part of
the land will be stabilized before another part is disturbed.
   12.   "Erosion" means the wearing away of the land surface by running water,
wind, ice, gravity, or other geological, natural, or man-made agents.
   13.   "Erosion Control Officer" means the City Engineer, Building Official,
or designee.
   14.   "Erosion control permit" means a major erosion control permit or a
minor erosion control permit.
   15.   "Fill site" means land upon which fill materials are placed and which
placement does not require a Sanitary Disposal Permit issued by the State of
Iowa.
   16.   "Filling" means placing materials to effectively change the site
contours. This shall include placing materials from the site itself, or from
off site.
   17.   "Final stabilization" means that all land-disturbing activities at the
site have been completed, and that a uniform perennial vegetative cover with a
density of 70 percent for the area has been established or equivalent
stabilization measures have been employed.
   18.   "General Permit No. 2" means General Permit No. 2, Storm Water
Discharge Associated with Industrial Activity for Construction Activities, as
authored and administered by the Iowa DNR.
   19.   "Iowa DNR" means the Iowa Department of Natural Resources.
   20.   "Land-disturbing activities" means clearing, grading, excavating,
filling, or removal of vegetation, paving, or buildings, exposing earthen
material on a site.
   21.   "Ordinance" means the portion of the City Municipal Code entitled,
"Construction Site Erosion and Sediment Control."
   22.   "Responsible party" means one or more persons who have applied for or
hold a city erosion control permit, or who own, control, or perform work on a
site.
   23.   "Sediment" means solid material, both natural and man-made, that is in
suspension, has been transported, or has been moved from its origin by air,
water, gravity, or ice and has been deposited by the action of water or wind.
   24.   "Site" means property where land-disturbing activities take place.
   25.   "Stabilization or stabilized" means vegetative cover with a density of
70 percent has been established, or equivalent stabilization measures have been
employed.
   26.   "Standard specifications" means the latest edition of the Ely
Metropolitan Area Standard Specifications for Public Improvements as approved
by the City Council.
   27.   "SUDAS" (Pronounced: "Soo'dahs") - Statewide urban design and
specifications. Common urban standards and specifications for public
improvements.
   28.   "Stormwater drainage system" means all man-made facilities and
structures and all-natural watercourses that are owned by the city, or that are
within a drainage easement owned by the city, and that are used for collection,
storage, treatment, and conveyance of stormwater from any area, through any
area. This includes without limitation all stormwater facilities, canals,
creeks, curb and gutter, dams, ditches, floodwalls, flumes, gulches, gullies,
levees, ravines, siphons, streams, streets, and swales. For the purpose of
illicit discharge regulation, any discharge to an area tributary to the
stormwater drainage system shall be treated as a discharge to the stormwater
drainage system. The stormwater drainage system does not include the Cedar
River.
   29.   "Stormwater facilities" means anything built or used for the control
of stormwater, including without limitation catch basins, channels, culverts,
detention basins, energy dissipation structures, inlets, manholes, outlets,
pipes and other conduits, retention basins, and roadways and gutters.
   30.   "Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan" means a document conforming to
the requirements therefore contained in General Permit No. 2 and this chapter,
prepared and certified by a design professional as defined herein.
   31.   "SWPPP" means Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan.
147.03   EROSION CONTROL PERMIT REQUIRED.
Sites that will result in a total disturbed area of one or more acres and sites
less than one acre that are a part of a larger common plan of development that
will result in a total disturbed area of more than one acre.
   1.   All erosion control permits shall be issued by the City Building
Official upon approval of a completed application. The application shall be
signed by the title holder of the site, together with the applicant, if
different from the title holder. The necessary documents are covered in 147.04.
   2.   Sites required to obtain an erosion control permit shall comply with
Section 147.06. Requirements for Sites Covered by the Iowa DNR General Permit
No. 2, herein.
   3.   An erosion control permit application shall include the following:
      A.   A completed application.
      B.   A SWPPP conforming to: The requirements of this chapter, and the
requirements of General Permit No. 2.
      C.   A dimensioned drawing including the following:
         (1)   Property address and legal description;
         (2)   Property lines and any existing easements of record;
         (3)   Limits of area of land-disturbing activities;
         (4)   Existing and proposed ground elevations (2-foot maximum
interval);
         (5)   Other information as required by the City Building Official,
City Engineer and/or City Council.
   4.   The permittee shall provide the City with all material submitted as
part of a notice of discontinuation when such a notice is filed with the Iowa
DNR.
   5.   Filling or construction within floodplain limits as established by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and in the Ely Floodplain Management
Ordinance will require a separate additional permit under that ordinance, in
addition to the permits required by this chapter.
   6.   The following activities are exempt from the requirements of this
chapter:
      A.   Crop production activities;
      B.   Cemetery graves;
      C.   Emergencies posing an immediate danger to life or property, or
substantial flood or fire hazards;
      D.   Total fill quantity of less than 25 cubic yards in a 12 month time
period.
147.04   SWPPP REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Every SWPPP submitted to the city in support of an application for an
erosion control permit:
      A.   Shall contain complete 24-hour contact information for the site
owner and the person in responsible charge of providing and maintaining
sedimentation and erosion control for the site. The permittee shall inform the
Erosion Control Officer within 7 calendar days of any change in this contact
information.
      B.   Shall comply with all current minimum mandatory requirements for
SWPPPs promulgated by the Iowa DNR in connection with General Permit No. 2,
including those published as Summary Guidance for General Permit No. 2 by the
Iowa DNR. The City Engineer may develop policies modifying these requirements
for sites with a disturbed area less than one acre.
      C.   Shall comply with all other applicable state or federal permit
requirements in existence at the time of application.
      D.   Shall be prepared by a design professional as defined herein.
      E.   Shall include within the SWPPP a signed and dated certification by
the person preparing the SWPPP that the SWPPP complies with all requirements of
this section.
   2.   The SWPPP shall be modified by a design professional (as defined
herein) as required in General Permit No. 2. Any modification of a SWPPP shall
meet the requirements above.
147.05   SWPPP REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE. 
   1.   The applicant shall submit a SWPPP for the site, meeting the
requirements established in the State Urban Design Standards (SUDAS), to the
City Building Official for review and approval, as follows:
      A.   The City Building Official shall review the submittal for compliance
with the requirements of a SWPPP as set forth as in the GP#2. Following the
review, the City Building Official may return comments to the design
professional.
      B.   Following receipt of comments from the City Building Official, the
applicant shall provide a revised submittal to the City Building Official in
accordance with any requested revisions.
      C.   The City Building Official may require supporting documentation as
needed to demonstrate conformance with these requirements. Issuance of an
erosion control permit may be delayed pending receipt of the documentation.
      D.   If the submittal is complete, and meets the requirements as set
forth herein, the City Building Official shall approve the plan.
147.06   REQUIREMENTS FOR SITES COVERED BY IOWA DNR GENERAL PERMIT NO. 2.
   1.   The city shall not allow any land-disturbing activity on a site for
which coverage under General Permit No. 2 is required, nor shall the city issue
any permit, authorization, or license allowing such activity, until the site
owner has obtained coverage for the site under General Permit No. 2 from the
Iowa DNR.
   2.   Any responsible party who is required to obtain, or has obtained,
coverage under General Permit No. 2 shall comply with all the requirements of
General Permit No. 2. Failure to do so is a violation of this section.
      A.   Completion of work shown in a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
submitted under the provisions of General Permit No. 2 is a requirement of
General Permit No. 2 and failure to complete such work is a violation of this
section.  Completion of work shown in a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
under the provisions of General Permit No. 2 is a requirement of General Permit
No. 2 and failure to complete such work is a violation of this section.
   3.   For sites covered under General Permit No. 2 where the ownership
changes, the Enforcement Officer must be notified of the title transfer within
30 days. The new owner shall be subject to all terms and conditions of the
erosion control permit. A copy of the notice of transfer that was sent to the
Enforcement Officer shall be included in the SWPPP.
   For sites that are part of a larger common plan of development such as a
housing or commercial development project, if a permittee transfers ownership
of all or any part of property subject to an erosion control permit, both the
permittee and transferee shall be responsible for compliance with the
provisions of General Permit No. 2 and the erosion control permit for that
portion of the project which has been transferred including when the
transferred property is less than one acre in area. If the new owner agrees in
writing to be solely responsible for compliance with the provisions of General
Permit No. 2 and the erosion control permit for the property which has been
transferred, then the existing permittee shall be relieved of responsibility
for compliance with General Permit No. 2 and the erosion control permit for the
transferred property, from and after the date the transfer of responsibility is
attached to the SWPPP.
147.07   INSPECTION, NOTICE TO COMPLY, AND NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   1.   The Erosion Control Officer may inspect the site in response to reports
from third parties or at other times, at the Erosion Control Officer's
discretion.
   2.   The Erosion Control Officer may issue a notice to comply to the
responsible party or parties, describing any problems and specifying a date and
time by which compliance must be achieved.
      A.   The Erosion Control Officer may modify a notice to comply and may
authorize, in writing, an extension to the specified date and time by which
compliance must be achieved.
      B.   Failure to achieve compliance by the specified date and time is a
violation of this section.
   3.   The Erosion Control Officer shall, upon determination of any violation
of this section, issue a notice of violation in writing to the responsible
party or parties, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the
action necessary to correct it.
      A.   The notice of violation may:
         (1)   Order the discontinuance of any or all work at the site,
including at the Erosion Control Officer's discretion work not directly related
to the cause and prevention of erosion and sedimentation, except work necessary
to achieve compliance and to repair and clean up damage, specifying a date and
time for such discontinuance to commence and conditions for such discontinuance
to cease.
         (2)   Require the repair and cleanup of any damage done due to failure
to comply with General Permit No. 2, specifying a date and time for completion
of repair and cleanup.
         (3)   Order the withholding of any building or occupancy permits for
the site.
      B.   Failure to comply with any order in a notice of violation is an
additional violation. Each day of such failure constitutes a separate
violation.
      C.   The Erosion Control Officer may modify a notice of violation and may
authorize, in writing, an extension to the specified dates and times therein.
      D.   The notice of violation shall, where necessary or appropriate,
recommend to the City Attorney the institution of legal or equitable actions
that may be required for the enforcement of this section.
   4.   Communication to a responsible party's employee, partner, attorney,
agent, contractor, or subcontractor shall be regarded as communication to the
responsible party for the purpose of this section.
   5.   Communication to one responsible party shall be regarded as
communication to each responsible party for the purpose of this section.
147.08   POWERS OF AUTHORITY FOR INSPECTION.
   1.   Right of Entry. The City Engineer or Building Official and authorized
employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The applicant, owner, or titleholder shall be deemed to have consented
to such entry by submission of an application for any permit or plan
contemplated in this chapter. Barring or delaying such inspection is a
violation of this section.
   2.   The Erosion Control Officer shall have access to and be able to copy
any records that must be kept under the conditions of General Permit No. 2
within 3 business hours, where a business hour is any hour between 8:00 a.m.
and 3:30 p.m. on a nonholiday weekday.
147.09   REPAIR AND CLEAN-UP OF DAMAGE.
   1.   For any site, whether or not covered by an erosion control permit or
other stormwater discharge permit, the city may clean up eroded sediment or
tracked soil deposited on public property if:
      A.   Corrective action has not been completed within 24 hours or within
an extended deadline granted in writing by the city; or
      B.   In the judgment of the City Engineer, damage to the environment is
ongoing and prompt corrective action would be intended to reduce such damage.
   2.   If the city cleans up such material deposited off-site, the City
Engineer will invoice the responsible party or parties for the city's actual
costs including overhead, which may be recorded as an assessment against the
property and constitute a lien thereon.
   3.   Failure to pay an invoice under this subchapter within 30 days shall
constitute a violation of this section.
147.10   ENFORCEMENT.
   1.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may be enforced by civil
action including an action for injunctive relief.
   2.   In any civil enforcement action, administrative or judicial, the city
shall be entitled to recover its attorneys' fees and costs from a person who is
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to have violated this chapter.
   3.   Violation of any provision of this chapter may also be enforced as a
municipal infraction within the meaning of Iowa Code 364.22, pursuant to
Chapter 1, Ely City Code.
147.11   APPEALS.
Anyone claiming to be aggrieved by any determination made by the Erosion
Control Officer may within 20 days of the date of such determination appeal to
the City Manager or designee and in writing state his or her reasons for
requesting such order to be rescinded or modified. The City Manager or designee
shall review the determination of the Erosion Control Officer, and if
reasonable grounds exist, shall modify, withdraw or order compliance with said
determination. Anyone claiming to be aggrieved by the determination made by the
City Manager or designee shall have such rights of appeal as provided by the
law.
147.12   FEES ESTABLISHED.
The City Council may establish fees by resolution for permit applications,
permit renewal applications, inspections, and for the review and processing of
documents necessitated by this chapter. When such fees are established a
submittal shall not be considered unless the appropriate fee has been submitted
to the city.
(Ch. 147 - Ord. 277 - Jun. 19 Supp.)
CHAPTER 148
ILLICIT DISCHARGE ORDINANCE
148.01  Title                                             148.53  Reinstatement Without
                                                           Approval
148.02  Purpose                                           148.66  Applicability
148.03  Findings                                          148.67  Access to Facilities
148.11  Definitions                                       148.71  Use of BMPS for Protection
148.21  Applicability                                     148.81  Watercourse Protection
148.22  Administration                                    148.86  Notifications of Spills
148.23  Ultimate Responsibility                           148.91  Notice of Violation
148.31  Prohibition of Illicit Discharges                 148.92  Abatement or Restoration
148.32  Exemptions                                        148.96  Appeal
148.33  Prohibition of Illicit Connections                148.101  Enforcement
148.34  Industrial or Construction Activity Discharges    148.106  Cost of Abatement of
                                                           Violation
148.51  Suspension Due to Illicit Discharges in Emergency 148.111  Injunctive Relief
Situations
148.52  Suspension Due to Detection of Illicit Discharge  148.116  Violations Deemed Public
                                                           Nuisance
                                                          148.121  Remedies Not Exclusive
 
PART 1
INTRODUCTION
148.01   TITLE.
An ordinance enforcing standards that prohibit anything other than storm water
for which an NPDES permit has been issued from entering the MS4.
148.02   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Ordinance is to help protect the City's surface waters and
quality of life by detecting and eliminating illicit discharges.
148.03   FINDINGS.
The U.S.EPA's National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System ("NPDES") permit
program administered by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources ("IDNR")
requires that cities meeting certain demographic and environmental impact
criteria obtain from the IDNR an NPDES permit for the discharge of storm water
from a Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4).  The City of Ely is subject
to the Program and is required to obtain, and has obtained, an MS4 Permit; the
City's MS4 Permit is on file at City Hall and is available for public
inspection during regular office hours.
148.04 through 148.10 Reserved
PART 2
DEFINITIONS
148.11   DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this Ordinance all words shall carry their customary
meanings, except where specifically defined herein.  The use of the present
tense shall include the past and future tenses, and the future the present; the
word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive; the singular
number shall include the plural and the plural the singular.
   1.   "Best management practice" (or "BMP") means structural and non-
structural measures, practices, techniques or devices employed to avoid or
minimize sediment or other pollutants carried in runoff.
   2.   "Building Official" means the officer designated and authorized by the
City Council to carry out various functions as specified in this chapter.
   3.   "Clean Water Act (CWA)" means the Clean Water Act (formerly referred to
as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act or Federal Water pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972).
   4.   "Construction Activity" means activities subject to NPDES construction
permits that result in disturbance of one acre or more. Such activities
include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating,
filling, and demolition.
   5.   "Discharge" means the release of water and any elements, compounds and
particles contained within or upon, from property owned or controlled by an
individual, individuals, or entity.
   6.   "Geothermal Pump and Dump System" means a system that uses a pump to
extract water from an underground aquifer, circulates the water through a
heating or cooling system, and discharges the water as non-stormwater
discharge.
   7.   "Hazardous Materials" means any material, including any substance,
waste, or combination thereof, that because of its quantity, concentration, or
physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly
contribute to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health,
safety, property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored,
transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   8.   "Illicit Discharge" means any direct or indirect non-stormwater
discharge to the storm drain system, except as exempted in subsection 148.32 of
this chapter.
   9.   "Illicit Connection" means either of the following:
      A.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not
limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by the Building Official; or
      B.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by the Building Official.
   10.   "Industrial Activity" means activities subject to NPDES industrial
permits as defined in 40 CFR 122.26 (b)(14).
   11.   "Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System" means the streets, gutters,
conduits, natural or artificial drains, channels and watercourses, and other
facilities that are owned, operated, maintained or controlled by the City and
used for the purpose of collecting, storing, transporting, or disposing of
stormwater.
   12.   "National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Stormwater
Discharge Permit" means a permit issued by the environmental protection agency
or by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC 1342(b) that
authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether
the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general areawide basis.
   13.   "Non-stormwater Discharge" means any discharge to the storm drain
system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
   14.   "Point Source" means a discernible confined, and discrete conveyance,
including but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding
operation, landfill leachate collection system, vessel or other floating craft
from which pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does not include
return flows from irrigated agriculture or agricultural storm water runoff.
   15.   "Pollutant" means anything that causes or contributes to pollution.
Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and
solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes
and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or
abandoned objects, articles, and accumulations, so that same may cause or
contribute to pollution; floatables; sediment from soil erosion; pesticides,
herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal
coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes
and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; and noxious
or offensive matter of any kind.
   16.   "Premises" means building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land
whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   17.   "Significant Materials" include but are not limited to: raw materials,
fuels, materials such as solvents, detergent, and plastic pellets, finished
materials such as metallic products, raw materials used in food processing or
production: hazardous substances designated under Section 101(14) of the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA);
any chemical the facility is required to report pursuant to Emergency Planning
and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA) Section 313; fertilizers; pesticides;
and waste products such as ashes, slag and sludge that have the potential to be
released with storm water discharges.
   18.   "Soil Erosion" means the detachment and movement of soil or rock
fragments by water, wind, ice or gravity.
   19.   "Stormwater" means any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting
entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from
such precipitation.
   20.   "Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan" means a document that describes
the best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or
business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the
actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater
conveyance systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   21.   "Surface Waters" means all waters of the state other than ground
waters, which include ponds, lakes, rivers, streams, tidal and nontidal
wetlands, public ditches, tax ditches, and public drainage systems except those
designed and used to collect, convey, or dispose of sanitary sewage.
   22.   "Wastewater" means any water or other liquid, other than
uncontaminated stormwater, discharged from a facility.
   23.   "Waters of the State" means both surface waters and ground waters
within the boundaries of the state of Iowa and subject to its jurisdiction.
148.12 through 148.20 Reserved
PART 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
148.21   APPLICABILITY.
This chapter shall apply to all water entering the MS4 generated on any
developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by the Building
Official.
148.22   ADMINISTRATION. 
The Illicit Discharge Ordinance shall be administered by the Building Official.
148.23   ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY. 
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
148.24 through 148.30 Reserved
PART 4
DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS
148.31   PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT DISCHARGES. 
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the MS4 or
watercourses any of the following:
   1.   Materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters
containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable
water quality standards, other than storm water.
   2.   Geothermal pump and dump system discharges without the express written
consent of the Building Official. The Building Official may allow such
discharge if it does not present or will not present an imminent and
substantial danger to the operation of the MS4, public property, private
property, the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or waters of
the state.
   3.   Sediment pollution originating from excessive erosion rates on a
construction site not otherwise subject to the City's COSESCO ordinance or
sediment pollution entering a municipal storm sewer that causes a water quality
violation as determined by the DNR shall be deemed an illicit discharge in
violation of this ordinance.
148.32   EXEMPTIONS.
The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illicit discharge to the storm
drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
   1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, sump pump discharge,
foundation or footing drains (not including active ground water dewatering
systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than 1 PPM chlorine),
firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
   2.   Discharges specified in writing by the Building Official as being
necessary to protect public health and safety.
   3.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the Building Official prior to the time of the test.
   4.   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the environmental protection
agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
148.33   PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
   1.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   2.   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the person
connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a connection to
continue.
148.34   INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm water
discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of
compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
Building Official prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
148.35 through 148.50 Reserved
PART 5
SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS
148.51   SUSPENSION DUE TO ILLICIT DISCHARGES IN EMERGENCY SITUATIONS.
The City may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person
when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the City may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the state, or to minimize
danger to persons.
148.52   SUSPENSION DUE TO DETECTION OF ILLICIT DISCHARGE. 
Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have the
person's MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an
illicit discharge. The City shall notify a violator of the proposed termination
of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the City for a reconsideration and
hearing.
148.53   REINSTATEMENT WITHOUT APPROVAL. 
A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises
terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the City.
148.54 through 148.65 Reserved
PART 6
MONITORING OF DISCHARGES
148.66   APPLICABILITY.
This section applies to all facilities that have storm water discharges
associated with industrial activity, including construction activity.
148.67   ACCESS TO FACILITIES.
The City shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to
regulation under this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has security measures in force
that require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access
to representatives of the City.
   1.   Facility operators shall allow the City ready access to all parts of
the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and copying
of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge storm water, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
   2.   The City shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility such
devices as are necessary in the opinion of the City to conduct monitoring and/
or sampling of the facility's storm water discharge.
   3.   The City shall have the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
   4.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the City and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
   5.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the City access to a permitted facility
is a violation of a storm water discharge permit and of this chapter. A person
who is the operator of a facility with an NPDES permit to discharge storm water
associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the
City reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting
any activity authorized or required by this chapter.
   6.   If the City has been refused access to any part of the premises from
which storm water is discharged, and are able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any order issued hereunder,
or to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community,
then the City may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent
jurisdiction.
148.68 through 148.70 Reserved
PART 7
PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE POLLUTANTS BY USE OF BMPS
148.71   USE OF BMPS FOR PROTECTION.
The owner or operator of a commercial, industrial or construction site shall
provide, at the owner's or operator's own expense, reasonable protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal
storm drain system or watercourses through the use of structural and
nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premises,
that is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to
implement, at such person's expense, additional structural and nonstructural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES
permit authorizing the discharge of storm water associated with commercial,
industrial or construction activities, to the extent practicable, shall be
deemed compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part
of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance
with requirements of the NPDES permit.
148.72 through 148.80 Reserved
PART 8
WATERCOURSE PROTECTION
148.81   WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately-owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
148.82 through 148.85 Reserved
PART 9
NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS
148.86   NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illicit discharges or pollutants
discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of the United
States such person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials such person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of nonhazardous materials, such person shall notify the City in person
or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day. Notifications in
person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to
the City within three (3) business days of the phone notice. If the discharge
of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial, industrial or construction
site, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site
written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three (3) years.
148.87 through 148.90 Reserved
PART 10
ENFORCEMENT
148.91   NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
Whenever the City finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to
meet a requirement of this chapter, the City may order compliance by written
notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require without
limitation:
   1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
   2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
   3.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
   4.   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or contamination
hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
   5.   Payment of administrative and remediation costs; and
   6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
148.92   ABATEMENT OR RESTORATION.
If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Such notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
148.93 through 148.95 Reserved
PART 11
APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION
148.96   APPEAL.
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination to the
City Council. The notice of appeal must be received by the City Building
Official within ten (10) business days from the date of the notice of
violation. Hearing on the appeal before the City Council shall take place
within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The
City Council may rescind, modify or affirm the notice of violation. The
decision of the City Council shall be final.
148.97 through 148.100 Reserved
PART 12
ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL
148.101 ENFORCEMENT.
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or in the event of an appeal, within thirty (30)
days of the decision of the City Council upholding the decision of the City,
then representatives of the City may enter upon the subject private property
and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the
violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person,
owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the
City or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set
forth above.
148.102 through 148.105 Reserved
PART 13
COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION
148.106 COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION.
Within thirty (30) days after abatement of a violation of this chapter, the
owner of the property shall be notified in writing by the City of the cost of
abatement, including administrative costs.  If the cost of abatement is not
paid to the City within sixty (60) days after the date of the notice, the cost
of abatement shall be certified by the City in the manner of a special
assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property.
148.107 through 148.110 Reserved
PART 14
INJUNCTIVE RELIEF
148.111 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the City may petition for
a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from activities
which would create further violations or compelling the person to perform
abatement or remediation of the violation.
148.112 through 148.115 Reserved
PART 15
VIOLATIONS DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE
148.116 VIOLATIONS DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and
deemed a nuisance.  (Chapter 50)
148.117 through 148.120 Reserved
PART 16
REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE
148.121 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the City to seek cumulative remedies.
148.122 through 148.125 Reserved
(Ch. 148 - Ord. 276 - Jun. 19 Supp.)
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01  Definitions       150.03  Building Numbering Plan
150.02  Owner Requirements
 
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building. 
   2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
   1.   Obtain Building Number.  The owner shall obtain the assigned number to
the principal building from the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   2.   Display Building Number.  The owner shall place or cause to be
installed and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a
conspicuous place to the street in figures not less than two and one-half
inches in height and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   3.   Failure to Comply.  If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
TREES
 
151.01  Definition           151.04  Trimming Trees to Be Supervised
151.02  Planting Restrictions151.05  Disease Control
151.03  Duty to Trim Trees   151.06  Inspection and Removal
 
151.01   DEFINITION.
For use in this chapter, “parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or
highway in the City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and
the curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or
highway lying between the lot line and that portion of the street usually
traveled by vehicular traffic. 
151.02   PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
No tree shall be planted in any parking or street except in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Alignment.  All trees planted in any street shall be planted in the
parking midway between the outer line of the sidewalk and the curb.  In the
event a curb line is not established, trees shall be planted on a line 10 feet
from the property line. 
   2.   Spacing.  Trees shall not be planted on any parking that is less than
nine feet in width, or contains less than 81 square feet of exposed soil
surface per tree.  Trees shall not be planted closer than 20 feet from street
intersections (property lines extended) and 10 feet from driveways.  If it is
at all possible, trees should be planted inside the property lines and not
between the sidewalk and the curb.
   3.   Prohibited Trees.  No person shall plant in any street any fruit-
bearing tree or any tree of the kinds commonly known as cottonwood, poplar, box
elder, Chinese elm, evergreen, willow, or black walnut.
151.03   DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 15 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks.  If the
abutting property owner fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on
the abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five
days.  If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the
required action and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c, d & e])
151.04   TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
Except as allowed in Section
151.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or cut any tree in a street or
public place unless the work is done under the supervision of the City.
151.05   DISEASE CONTROL.
Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub that may harbor serious insect or
disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
151.06   INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in the
City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased or damaged, and such trees and
shrubs shall be subject to the following:
   1.   City Property.  If it is determined that any such condition exists on
any public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line of
private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal.  The Council may also order the removal of any trees on
the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or with
travel thereon.
   2.   Private Property.  If it is determined with reasonable certainty that
any such condition exists on private property and that danger to other trees or
to adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is imminent, the
Council shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or person in charge
of such property to correct such condition by treatment or removal within 14
days of said notification.  If such owner, occupant, or person in charge of
said property fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council
may cause the condition to be corrected and the cost assessed against the
property. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3b & h])
CHAPTER 155
BUILDING CODES
 
155.01  International Building Codes155.02  Amendments
 
155.01   INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODES.
Except as hereinafter added to, deleted, modified or amended, there is hereby
adopted as the Construction Regulations of the City the certain codes known as
the International Building Code, 2015 Edition, and International Residential
Code, 2015 Edition, including Appendix F titled Radon Control Methods as
prepared and edited by the International Code Council, Inc. and the provisions
of said Codes shall be controlling in the construction of single-family and
two-family homes within the incorporated limits of the City and shall be known
as the Ely Construction Regulations.
155.02   AMENDMENTS.
Certain sections, and portions of sections, of the International Building Code,
2015 Edition (hereinafter IBC) and the International Residential Code for One-
and Two- Family Dwellings, 2015 Edition (hereinafter IRC) are hereby amended,
deleted, modified or added to as set forth below:
   1.   Name of Jurisdiction.  In the IBC 101.1 and the IRC 101.1 in place of
“Name of Jurisdiction” insert “City of Ely, Iowa.”
   2.   IRC Work Exempt.  Amend IRC Section R105.2 Work Exempt from Permit;
Building by deleting the following: Item 1. One-story detached accessory
structures; 3 Retaining Walls; and 10. Decks; and adding the following:
R105.2 Work Exempt from Permit, Building
1.  One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds,
playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 120 square
feet.
3.  Retaining walls not over 6 feet high unless supporting a surcharge.
10.  Decks not exceeding 200 square feet in area that are not more than 30
inches above grade at any point, are not attached to any structure, and do not
serve any door.
   3.   IBC Work Exempt.  Amend IBC Section 105.2 Work Exempt from Permit,
Building, by deleting item 4. Retaining walls; and adding the  following:
105.2 Work Exempt from Permit, Building:
4.  Retaining walls not over 6 feet high and not supporting a surcharge or
impounding Class I, II or III liquids.
   4.   Substantially Improved/Substantially Damaged.DeleteIRC R105.3.1.1
Substantially Improved or Substantially Damaged Existing Buildings and
Structures, without substitution.
   5.   Expiration.  Modify IBC 105.5 and IRC R105.5 Expirationby adding new
Sections 105.5.1 and R105.5.1 respectively as follows:
105.5.1, R105.5.1 Expiration. Every building permit issued under the provisions
of the Code shall expire 12 months from the date of issue, unless the
application is accompanied by a construction schedule of specific longer
duration, in which instance the permit may be issued for the term of the
construction schedule.  If the work has not been completed by the expiration
date of the permit, no further work shall be done until the permit shall have
been renewed by the owner or his or her agent and by payment of a renewal  fee
as set forth in the City of Ely’s Permit Fee Schedule as adopted by resolution
of the Ely City Council, and provided no changes have been made in plans or
location.  No permit shall be renewed more than once.  Renewal of the permit
shall be granted for an additional period of 12 months beginning at the
original permit expiration date.  The nominal permit renewal fee shall be set
by resolution of the City Council.  Work not complete at the expiration of 24
months from the original permit issuance date shall require a new permit with
fees based on the valuation of all uncompleted work.
   6.   Post Frame Buildings. Add IBC 107.6 and IRC R106.6 Post Frame Buildings
as follows:
107.6 and R106.6 Post Frame Buildings.  All pole frame buildings shall be
designed and constructed by the following guidelines:
Exception.  Pole buildings satisfying all of the following  requirements are
exempt from the engineering certification of plans required in this section:
1. Floor area of 1,000 square feet or less;
2. Eave height of 12 feet or less;
3. Pole spacing of 8 feet or less.
107.6.1 and R106.6.1 Plans.  Plans shall be drawn to a scale of not less than
one-fourth inch per foot and include: floor plan with dimensions, pole
locations and spacing, footing sizes, door sizes and locations; section drawing
showing footings, poles, sidewall girts, roof purlins, headers, siding,
roofing, and details; and elevation views of all four sides of building.
107.6.2 and R106.6.2 Engineering.  Plans shall be certified by a licensed,
professional engineer and shall bear the engineer’s seal and signature.  The
engineer’s certification block shall specify the pages or sheets covered by the
seal.
107.6.3 and R106.3 Building Design Criteria.  The following shall appear on
engineer certified plans: Building design in accordance with the 2015
International Building Code; 30 PSF ground snow load; 115 MPH Wind Design
Speed; Exposure C (generally open terrain with scattered obstructions); 2000
PSF assumed soil bearing (unless a soils report shows otherwise).  Exposure C
will be assumed unless it can be demonstrated that the building site meets the
definition of Exposure B (suburban and wooded areas with numerous closely
spaced obstructions).
107.6.4 and R106.6.4 Trusses. Submit truss design drawings certified by a
licensed, professional engineer. Drawings shall indicate that the design and
connectors are in accordance with the 2015 International Building Code and
indicate the applicable design criteria from Section 107.6.3 or R106.6.3 above.
   7.   Fees.  Delete IBC 109.2 and IRC R108.2 Schedule of Permit Fees and add
the following sections:
109.2 and R108.2 Schedule of Fees. For work requiring a permit, a fee for each
permit shall be paid as required in accordance with the Permit Fee Schedule as
established by resolution of the Ely City Council.
109.2.1 Plan Review Fees. When plans or other submittal documents are required
by Section 106, a plan review fee shall be paid at the time of submitting plans
and specifications for review. Said plan review fee shall be in addition to the
permit fee and in accordance with the Permit Fee Schedule as established by
resolution of the Ely City Council.
109.2.2 and R108.2.1 Re-inspection Fee. A re-inspection fee may be assessed for
each inspection or re-inspection when such portion of work for which inspection
is called is not complete or when corrections called for are not made.
Re-inspection fees may be assessed when the inspection card is not posted or
otherwise available on the work site, the property and building address are not
properly posted and the location of the inspection cannot be readily
ascertained, the approved plans are not readily available to the inspector, for
failure to provide access at the time for which inspection is requested, or for
deviating from plans requiring the approval of the building official.
The re-inspection fee shall be in accordance with the Permit Fee Schedule as
established by resolution by the Ely City Council.
   8.   Valuation.  Add a new IBC Section 109.3.1 and IRC Section R108.3.1 as
follows:
109.3.1 and R108.3.1 Valuation. Valuation for the purpose of establishing
permit fees for new construction, additions or alterations to existing
buildings shall be determined by the Building Official using information from
the applicant/builder.  The Building Official will reference the Linn County
Valuation Schedule and submitted  documents in the event of conflict with
information from the builder/applicant.
   9.   Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance.Delete IBC 109.4 and IRC R108.6
Work commencing before permit issuance and add the following sections:
109.4 and R108.6 Work commencing before permit issuance. Whenever any work for
which a permit is required by this code has been commenced without first
obtaining said permit, an investigation fee in addition to the permit fee shall
be collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued.  The
investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee required by
this code for the entire project commenced and shall not be limited to the
amount of the work completed prior to be informed of the permit requirements. 
The payment of the investigation fee shall not exempt any person from
compliance with all other provisions of this code nor from any penalty
prescribed by law.
   10.   Certificate Issued.  Delete IBC 110.3 and IRC R110.3 criteria number 3
Certificate Issued without substitution.
   11.   Board of Appeals.  Delete IBC 113 and IRC R112 Board of Appealsand
replace with  the following:
113.1 and R112.1 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders,
decisions or determinations made by the Building Official relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, there shall be a Building Board of
Appeals consisting of five members, none of whom are employees of the City of
Ely.  One member shall be a registered architect or licensed engineer in the
State of Iowa; two members shall be a general construction contractor or a
journeyman carpenter; and two members shall be private citizens, all of whom
shall be residents of the city of Ely, Iowa.  The Building Official or the
Building Official’s duly authorized representative shall be an ex officio
member without vote and shall act as secretary of the Board. Each appointment
or new appointment shall be for a term of three years, with the terms of not
more than two members to expire December 31 of any one year.
The Building Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Ely City Council, and
shall serve without compensation, except mileage.  The Board shall adopt
reasonable rules and regulations for conducting its business and shall render
all decisions and findings in writing to the Building Official for appropriate
distribution and filing.  The Building Board of Appeals shall make
recommendations from time to time to the Board of Supervisors for appropriate
legislation with respect to the Building Regulations. Nominal fee for appeal to
the Board of Appeals shall be set by resolution of the Ely City Council.
113.2, R112.2 and 108.2.1 Limitations on  authority. An  application for 
appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules
legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of
this code do not fully apply, or an equally good or better form of construction
is proposed. The authority of the Board in hearing appeals is limited to the
technical provisions of the code related to the design, construction, use and
maintenance of buildings and other structures including alternative methods and
materials. The Board shall have no authority relative to interpretation of the
administrative provisions of this code nor shall the Board be empowered to
waive requirements of this code.
   12.   Definitions.  Attic, Habitable.  In the IRC R202, delete the
definition for Attic, Habitable, without substitution.
   13.   Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria.  Insert climatic and
geographic design criteria in IRC Table R301.2 (1)as follows:
Table R301.2 (1)
Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
 
       WIND DESIGN                                Subject to Damage From
Ground                    Special Wind   Seismic             Frost
Snow   Speed  Topographic Wind    Borne  Design   Weathering Line      Termite
Load   (mph)  effects     Region  Debris Category            Depth
                                  Zone
30 PSF 115    No          No      No     A        Severe     42 inches Moderate
                                                                       - Heavy
 
 
Winter Design Ice Barrier                              Air Freezing Mean Annual
Temp          Underlayment Flood Hazards               Index        Temp
              Required
                           NFIP Adoption FIRM Maps
-5°F         Yes          May 18, 1993  April 5, 2010 2500         48.9
14.   Ground Snow Loads.  Delete IBC 1608.2 Ground snow loads and replace with
the following:
1608.2 Ground Snow Loads. The ground snow load to be used in determining the
design snow loads for roofs shall be 30 pounds per square foot.
   15.   Townhouses.  Delete R302.2 Townhouses and replace as follows:
R302.2 Townhouse Separation. Townhouses shall be separated by fire­ resistance-
rated wall assemblies meeting the requirements of R302.2, Item 1 or 2.
1. A common one-hour fire-resistance-rated wall assembly tested in accordance
with ASTM E 119 or UL 263 if such walls do not contain plumbing or mechanical
equipment, ducts or vents in the cavity of the common wall.  The wall shall be
rated for exposure from both sides and shall extend to and be tight against
exterior walls and the underside of the  roof sheathing. Electrical
installations shall be installed in  accordance with Chapter 34 through 43. 
Penetrations of electrical outlet boxes shall be in accordance  with Section 
R302.4.
2. Two independent 1-hour fire-resistance  rated wall assemblies tested in
accordance with ASTM E 119 or UL 263. Each wall shall be rated for exposure
from both sides and shall extend to and be tight against exterior walls and the
underside of the roof sheathing. Wall membrane penetrations shall be in
accordance with Section R302.4.
   16.   Fire Protection of Floors.  Delete R302.13 without substitution.
   17.   Emergency Escape and Rescue Openings.  Add to IBC 1030.3 Maximum
Height from Floors and IRC R310.2.2 Window Sill Height the following exception:
Exception: Basement escape windows required for remodel or finish of rooms in
existing buildings may have window sill height measured from an elevated
landing not less than 36 inches wide, extending not less than 18 inches out
from the interior finish of the exterior wall and not more than 24 inches in
height. The landing shall be permanently affixed to the floor below and the
wall under the window it serves.
   18.   Risers.Add Exception 3 to IRC R311.7.5.1 Risersas follows:
Exceptions: 3. To facilitate the removal of snow and ice, the opening between
adjacent treads is not limited on exterior stairs exposed to precipitation.
   19.   Window Fall Protection.  Delete IBC 1013.8 and IRC R312.2 without
replacement.
   20.   IRC Fire Sprinkler Systems.  Delete IRC R313 Automatic Fire Sprinkler
Systemsand replace with the following:
R313 AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
R313.1 Townhouse automatic fire sprinkler systems.  An automatic residential
fire sprinkler system shall be installed throughout all attached townhouse
dwelling units when any of the following conditions exist:
1. The townhouses are constructed in a group of more than four attached units.
2. Any individual townhouse dwelling unit of a structure with four or  fewer
attached townhouses has a floor area greater than 4,000 square feet on any one
story or greater than 8,000 square feet of total floor area for all stories,
excluding non-habitable areas separated from the  rest of the building by a
minimum of one-hour fire-resistive construction and containing smoke or heat
detection interconnected with the dwelling unit smoke detectors.
Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required
when additions or alterations are made to existing townhouses that do not have
an automatic residential fire sprinkler system installed.
R313.1.1 Design and installation. Automatic residential fire sprinkler systems
for townhouses shall be designed and installed in accordance with NFPA 130 or
Section P2904.
R313.2 One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire sprinkler systems.
Automatic residential fire sprinkler systems shall be installed in one- and
two-family dwellings when the following condition exists:
1. The one-or two-family dwelling has a floor area greater than 4,000 square
feet on any one story or greater than 8,000 square feet of total floor area for
all stories, excluding non-habitable areas separated from the rest of the
building by a minimum of one-hour fire-resistive construction and containing
smoke or heat detection  interconnected with the dwelling  unit smoke
detectors.
Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required
when additions or alterations are made to existing one- and two­ family
dwellings that do not have an automatic residential fire sprinkler system
installed.
R313.2.1 Design and installation. Automatic residential fire sprinkler systems
for one-and two-family dwellings shall be designed and installed in accordance
with NFPA 130 or Section P2904.
R313.3 Alternative Methods. Maximum floor area square footages of Sections
R313.1 and R313.2 may be increased by 25 percent for buildings or floors
containing more than one egress door as specified in Section R311.2 or more
than one vertical egress as specified in Section R311A or other approved
alternate methods of building occupant egress enhancement.
   21.   Foundation Drainage Systems. Delete IBC 1805.4.3 Drainage and replace
with a new section 1805.4.3 and adding a new IRC section R401.3.1, as follows:
1805.4.3/R401.3.1 Drainage Discharges. The floor base and foundation perimeter
drain shall discharge by gravity or mechanical means into an approved  drainage
system  that complies with  the following:
(a) Sump pit located inside building. Exception: Sump pit may be omitted if
drainage tile can be designed with natural fall and drain on same property if
approved by the  Building Official.
(b) For each sump pit installed a pump discharge pipe shall be  provided
running continuous from a point directly outside the sump pit to a storm sewer,
waterway  or other approved discharge location.
(c) Pump discharge pipe shall be installed as per the requirements of the Linn
County Plumbing Code with connections to a storm sewer, waterway  or other
approved discharge location.
(d) Installation of sump pump if one is found by the Building Official to be
necessary. It shall be equipped to automatically provide for discharge of sump
pit water outside the basement wall and discharge as allowed elsewhere in this
code.
FPN: A sump pump will be considered to be necessary if water inside the sump
pit will not recede to a level four inches or more below the lowest basement
floor surface by gravity or absorption into the earth within a reasonable
period of time.
(e) The outlet line from the sump pump shall discharge a minimum of two feet
from the outside foundation wall.
(f) Where ground water conditions warrant, the Building Official may require
additional drainage tile as may be deemed necessary.
   22.   Frost Protection.  Modify IRC R403.1.4.1, Frost Protection, by
deleting all exceptions and adding the following:
R403.1.4.1 Exception 1. Slab-on-Grade Foundation. One story detached accessory
buildings of wood or steel frame construction, 1,250 square feet in area or
less, may have a concrete slab-on-grade foundation without frost protection.
The slab-on-grade shall be a minimum of four inches thick reinforced concrete
and shall be thickened at its entire perimeter to a minimum cross section
dimension of 10 inches wide by 10 inches high. The thickened portion shall have
continuous reinforcing with a minimum of one No. 4 reinforcing bar at the top
and bottom.  Reinforcement of the slab shall be 6 inch by 6 inch welded wire
mesh or a minimum of No. 4 reinforcing bars not greater than 24 inches on
center both directions and such reinforcing shall extend into the thickened
portion.  The slab shall be cast monolithically with the thickened portion. 
Foundations supporting wood light frame construction shall extend not less than
six inches above finish grade and have eaves not more than 10 feet above
grade.  A foundation under this section shall not support other than light
frame construction. The vertical distance from the top of the slab-on-grade
foundation to the lowest point at the base shall not exceed 24 inches.  No
plumbing shall be located in buildings with slab on grade foundations without
frost protection.  Stone and masonry veneer shall not be applied to exterior
walls supported by slab on grade foundations.
   23.   Foundation Drainage, Concrete or Masonry Foundations.  Delete the
Exception to IRC R405.1, Concrete or masonry foundation drainage, without
replacement.
   24.   Water Resistive Barrier.  Delete the last sentence in the IRC 703.2.
   25.   Sewer Depth.  Delete IRC P2603.5.1 Sewer Depthwithout substitution.
CHAPTER 156
ELECTRICAL CODE
 
156.01  ICC Electrical Code – Administrative Provisions and National Electrical 156.04  Limitations of
Code Adopted                                                                       Regulations
156.02  Amendments to the International Code Council Electrical Code              156.05  Licensing
156.03  Amendments to the National Electrical Code
 
156.01   ICC ELECTRICAL CODE--ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS AND NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
CODE ADOPTED.
Except as hereinafter amended, there is hereby adopted as the Electrical Code
of the City of Ely that certain Electrical Code known as the ICC Electrical
Code--Administrative Provisions, 2006 Edition (ICCEC) as promulgated by the
International Code Council, including the referenced National Electrical Code,
2014 Edition, (NEC) as prepared and edited by the National Fire Protection
Association, which codes are hereby specifically incorporated by reference and
shall be known as the City of Ely Electrical Code.  The provisions of said
Electrical Code shall control the installation, alterations. repairs, removals,
renewals, replacements, connection, disconnection, and maintenance of all
electrical equipment within the City of Ely, Iowa.  For the purpose of this
chapter, the term “electrical equipment” means all materials, wiring,
conductors, fittings, devices, appliances, luminaires, signs  and apparatus or
parts thereof comprising an electrical system.
156.02   AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL ELECTRICAL CODE. 
Certain sections and portions of sections of the ICC Electrical Code­
Administrative Provisions, 2006 Edition, are hereby amended, deleted, modified
or added to as more specifically set forth in the following sections of this
chapter.
   1.   Title.  Insert the following into ICCEC Section 101.1, Title: City of
Ely, Iowa.
   2.   Permit Expiration.  Add the following to ICCEC, Section 403.2,
Expiration (second unnumbered paragraph):
Every permit issued under the provisions of this code shall expire one year
from the date of issue, unless the application is accompanied by a construction
schedule of specific longer duration, in which instance the permit may be
issued for the term of the construction schedule.  If the work has not been
completed and approved prior to the expiration date of the permit, the owner or
the owner’s agent shall pay a renewal fee as set by the Fee Schedule.  No
further work shall be done until such fee is paid and the permit renewed. 
Renewal of the permit shall be granted one time only for a period of one year
beginning at the permit expiration date, provided no changes have been made in
plans or location.  The nominal permit renewal fee shall be set by resolution
of the City Council.  Work not complete at the expiration of the renewal shall
require a new permit with fees based on the valuation of all uncompleted work.
   3.   Permit Fees.  Delete ICCEC Section 404.2, Schedule of Permit Fees and
add the following:
Schedule of Permit Fees.  A fee for each permit shall be paid in accordance
with the Fee Schedule as set by resolution by the Ely City Council.
   4.   Work Commencing Prior to Permit Issuance.  Delete ICCEC Section 404.3
and replace with the following:
Section 404.3 Work Commencing Prior Permit Issuance.  Whenever any work for
which a permit is required by this code has been commenced without first
obtaining said permit, an investigation fee in addition to the permit fee shall
be collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued.  The
investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee required by
this code for the entire project commenced and shall not be limited to the
amount of work completed prior to being informed of the permit requirements. 
The payment of the investigation fee shall not exempt any person from
compliance with all other provisions of this code nor from any additional
penalties prescribed by law.
   5.   Reinspection Fee.  Add a new Section ICCEC 404.6:
404.6 Reinspection Fees.  A reinspection fee may be assessed for each
inspection or reinspection when such portion of work for which inspection is
called for is not complete or when corrections called for are not made.  The
reinspection fee shall be in accordance with the Fee Schedule as established by
resolution by the Ely City Council.
   6.   Penalties.  Delete ICCEC Section 1003.1 and add the following:
Section 1003.1 Penalties.  Any person who fails to comply with the provisions
of this code or who fails to carry out an order made pursuant to this code or
violates  any condition attached to a permit, approval or certificate shall be
subject to enforcement and penalties.
   7.   Means of Appeal.  Delete ICCEC Chapter 11 in its entirety and add the
following:
Chapter 11 Means of Appeal
Section 1101.1 Board of Appeals.  In order to hear and decide appeals of order,
decisions  or determinations made by the Building Official relative to the
applications and  interpretations  of this Code, there shall be an Electrical
Board of Appeals consisting of five members, none of whom are employees of the
City of Ely; two members shall be either licensed electrical contractors or
licensed electricians; one member shall be from a utility company providing
electricity for residents of Ely; and two members shall be private citizens,
all of whom shall be residents of the City of Ely, Iowa.  The Building Official
or the Building Official’s duly authorized representative shall be an ex
officio member without vote and shall act as secretary of the Board.  Each
appointment or new appointment shall be for a term of three years, with the
terms of not more than two members to expire December 31 of any one year.
The Electrical Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Ely City Council, and
shall serve without compensation, except mileage.  The Board shall adopt
reasonable rules and regulations for conducting its investigations and shall
render all decisions and findings in writing to the Building Official for
appropriate distribution and filing.
The Electrical Board of Appeals shall make recommendations from time to time 
to  the City Council for appropriate legislation with respect to the
Electrical  Regulations.
Section 1101.2 Limitations on Authority.  An application for appeal shall be
based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do
not fully apply, or an at least  equivalent method of protection or safety is
proposed.  The Board shall have no authority to waive the requirements of this
code.
Section 1101.3 Appeal Fee.  A nominal fee for an appeal to the Electrical Board
of Appeals shall be in accordance with the Electrical Permit and Inspection Fee
Schedule as  established by resolution by the Ely City Council.
156.03   AMENDMENTS TO THE NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
(NEC) Certain sections and portions of sections of the National Electrical
Code, 2014 Edition are hereby amended, deleted, modified or added to as  more
specifically  set forth  in the following sections of this chapter.
   1.   Ground Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection for Personnel.  Add the
following exceptions to section 210.8, paragraph (A), subparagraph (2):
Exception No. 1 to (2): Receptacles that are not readily accessible.
Exception No. 2 to (2): A single receptacle or a duplex receptacle for two
appliances located within dedicated space for each appliance that, in normal
use, is not easily moved from one place to another and that is cord-and-plug
connected in accordance with 400 7(A)(6), (A)(7), or (A)(S).
Receptacles installed under the exceptions to 210.8(A)(2) shall not be
considered as meeting the requirements of 210.52(G).
   2.   Ground Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection for Personnel.  Add the
following exceptions to section 210.8, paragraph (A), subparagraph (5):
Exception No. 2 to (5): Receptacles that are not readily accessible.
Exception No. 3 to (5): A single receptacle or a duplex receptacle for two
appliances located within dedicated space for each appliance that,  in normal
use, is not easily  moved from one place to another and that  is cord-and-plug 
connected  in accordance with 400.7(A)(6),  (A)(7), or  (A)(8).
Receptacles installed under the exceptions to 210.8(A)(5) shall not be
considered as meeting the  requirements  of 210.52(G).
   3.   Sump Pump Receptacle.  Add the following to NEC Section 210.8 (A)(5):
Exception No. 2 to (5): The sump pump receptacle shall not be required to be
GFCI protected.  A single receptacle supplying a permanently installed sump
pump, providing that the sump pump receptacle is permanently and clearly
labeled “for  sump pump use only” and providing there is at least one GFCI
protected duplex receptacle available for use within room or area in which sump
pump receptacle is located.
   4.   Lighting Load for Specified Occupancies.  Eliminate the exception to
section 220.12 and implement the following exception:
Exception: Where the building is designed and constructed to comply with an
energy code adopted by the local authority, the lighting load shall be
permitted to be calculated at the values specified in the energy code.
   5.   Branch Circuit Extensions or Modification.  Eliminate section 210.128.
   6.   Delete the following portions of NEC Section 210.52, Dwelling Unit
Receptacle Outlets, (C) Countertops, without substitution:
Section 210.52 (C) (2) Island Counter Spaces.
Section 210.52 (C) (3) Peninsular Counter Spaces.
   7.   Service Masts as Supports.  Add the following to NEC Section 230.28
(2nd unnumbered paragraph):
Section 230.28.  Where a service mast is used for the support of service drop
conductors, the service raceway shall be a minimum of 2-inch rigid galvanized
steel conduit.
   8.   Delete the following portion of 230.50 (B)- All Other Service Entrance
Conductors, in its entirety and add the  following:
Section 230.50 (B) All Other Service Entrance Conductors. Service Entrance
conductors installed above ground on the outside of a building beyond the first
contact made from the service drop shall be in an approved raceway.
   9.   Branch Circuit Extensions or Modification- AFCI.
Delete section 406.4(d)(4).
156.04   LIMITATIONS OF REGULATIONS.
The Electrical Regulations shall apply within the incorporated limits of the
City of Ely, Iowa.
156.05   LICENSING. 
No person shall perform electrical work as regulated by these City of Ely
Electrical Regulations, unless said person holds a current State of Iowa “A”
Master or “A” Journeyman license, a State of Iowa Residential Electrician
license, or a State of Iowa Apprentice License as provided in Section 6.4.1 and
a permit has been obtained for the work.  Exception: Anyone who was licensed to
perform electrical work in Linn County prior to December 31, 2007, and carries
a State of Iowa “B” Master or “B” Journeyman license shall continue to be
qualified to work in Linn County as required by Section 103.29-4 of the State
of Iowa Code.  The ratio of Journeymen to Apprentice shall be 1:1.  The ratio
of Residential Electrician to Apprentice shall be 1:1.
   1.   State of Iowa Electrical Licensing.  Electrical licensure shall be in
accordance with Chapter 103 of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   Contractor’s License Required.  No person shall engage in the business
of contracting, planning or supervising electrical work as regulated by these
Electrical Regulations within the jurisdiction of the City of Ely unless such
person is allowed under the provisions of Chapter 103 of the State of Iowa,
employs a State of Iowa “A” Master Electrician, and has obtained a permit
therefor from the Building Official according to the provisions of these
Electrical Regulations.  Exception: A contractor who was licensed to perform
electrical work in Linn County prior to December 31, 2007, and carries a State
of Iowa contractor’s license shall continue to be qualified to work in the City
of Ely.  Said State of Iowa license issued to an individual or officer of a
firm, corporation or other association, authorizes such individual, firm,
corporation or other association to conduct the contracting business and obtain
electrical permits in the jurisdiction of Linn County for the period of time
for which such license is granted, provided such licensee is a partner or
officer of such firm, corporation, or association, and is supervising the
operations of said firm or corporation, and further provided that such licensee
and the firm are insured according to law.
   3.   Insurance. Anyone conducting business as a State of Iowa Electrical
Contractor or Class A or B Master Electrician shall be insured per the
provisions of Chapter 103.6 of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 160
FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
160.01  Statutory Authority, Findings of Fact and Purpose   160.11  Action on Permit Application
160.02  Definitions                                         160.12  Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and
                                                             Plans
160.03  General Provisions                                  160.13  Conditional Uses, Appeals and Variances
160.04  Establishment of Zoning Districts                   160.14  Factors Upon Which the Decision of the Board Shall Be
                                                             Based
160.05  Floodway (Overlay) District (FW)                    160.15  Conditions Attached to Conditional Uses or Variances
160.06  Floodway Fringe (Overlay) District (FF)             160.16  Appeals to the Court
160.07  General Flood Plain (Overlay) District (FP)         160.17  Nonconforming Uses
160.08  Appointment, Duties, and Responsibilities of Zoning 160.18  Penalties for Violations
Administrator
160.09  Flood Plain Development Permit Required             160.19  Amendments
160.10  Application for Permit
 
160.01   STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE.
   1.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in Chapter 414, Code of Iowa,
as amended, delegated the power to cities to enact zoning regulations to secure
safety from flood and to promote health and the general welfare. 
   2.   Findings of Fact.
      A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
      B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by:  (i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood
damages which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately
elevated or otherwise protected from flooding; and (ii) the cumulative effect
of obstructions on the flood plain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
      C.   This chapter relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
   3.   Statement of Purpose.  It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
paragraph (2)(B) of this section with provisions designed to:
      A.   Reserve sufficient flood plain area for the conveyance of flood
flows so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
      B.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
that serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      D.   Protect individuals from buying lands that may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.02   DEFINITIONS.
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year. 
   3.   “Base flood elevation” means the elevation floodwaters would reach at a
particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides.  (Also see “lowest
floor.”)
   5.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations. 
“Development” does not include minor projects or routine maintenance of
existing buildings and facilities, as those terms are defined in this section.
It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices that do not
involve filling, grading.
   6.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first flood plain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   7.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   8.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly (or in substantial part) made, fabricated, formed, or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site.  For the purpose of this chapter, factory-built homes include
mobile homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes and also include park
trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for
greater than 180 consecutive days.
   9.   “Factory-built home park” means a parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two or more factory-built home lots for rent or sale.
   10.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   11.   “Flood elevation” means the elevation floodwaters would reach at a
particular site during the occurrence of a specific flood.  For instance, the
100-year flood elevation is the elevation of flood waters related to the
occurrence of the 100-year flood.
   12.   “Flood Insurance Rate Map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   13.   “Flood insurance study” means a study initiated, funded, and published
by the Federal Insurance Administration for the purpose of evaluating in detail
the existence and severity of flood hazards, providing the City with the
necessary information for adopting a flood plain management program and
establishing actuarial flood insurance rates.
   14.   “Flood plain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   15.   “Flood plain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
flood plains, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, flood proofing and flood plain management regulations.
   16.   “Flood proofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to structures.
   17.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the flood plains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge floodwaters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not result in substantially higher flood levels
and flow velocities.
   18.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the flood plain, other than
the floodway, which can be filled, leveed, or otherwise obstructed without
causing substantially higher flood levels or flow velocities.
19.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   20.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
maintained by the Department of Interior or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register;
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:  (i) by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   21.   “Lowest floor” means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement).  An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other
than a basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided
that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of
the applicable non-elevation design requirement of this chapter.
   22.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   23.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks) means
those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   24.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of first flood plain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   25.   “100-year flood” means the condition of flooding having a one percent
chance of annual occurrence.
   26.   “Principally above ground” means that at least 51 percent of the
actual cash value of the structure, less land value, is above ground.
   27.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle that is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis;
      B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   28.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
      A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles and replacing siding;
      B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work;
      C.   Basement sealing;
      D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes;
      E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.
   29.   “Regulatory flood elevation” means the water surface elevation of the
100-year flood.
   30.   “Special flood hazard area” means the land within a community subject
to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.  This land is
identified as Zone A and AE on the official map.
   31.   “Start of construction” (for other than new construction or
substantial improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-
348)) - Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement, was
within 180 days of the permit date.  The actual start means either the first
placement or permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as pouring
of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or
any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a factory-built
home on a foundation.  Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure.  For a substantial improvement, the actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   32.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, and other similar uses.
   33.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the marketable value of the
structure before the damage occurred.  Substantial damage also means flood-
related damages sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a 10-
year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of such flood event, on
the average, equals or exceeds 25 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred.
   34.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      A.   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of
a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value
of the structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement.  This
term includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage” regardless of
the actual repair work performed.  The term does not, however, include either
any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum
necessary to assure safe living conditions or any alteration of a “historic
structure,” provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as a “historic structure.”
      B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25 percent or more.  All additions constructed after February 17, 1993,
shall be added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total
increase in original floor space would exceed 25 percent.
   35.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the flood plain management regulations.
   36.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community’s flood plain management regulations.
160.03   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies.  The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City which are shown on the
Official Flood Plain Zoning Map as being within the boundaries of the Floodway,
Floodway Fringe, General Flood Plain, and Shallow Flooding Districts.
   2.   Establishment of Official Flood Plain Zoning Map.  The Flood Insurance
Rate Map for Linn County and Incorporated Areas, City of Ely, Panels
19113C0438D, 0439D, 0551D, 0552D, dated April 5, 2010, which were prepared as
part of the Flood Insurance Study for Linn County are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be the Official Flood Plain Zoning Map.  The flood
profiles and all explanatory material contained within the Flood Insurance
Study and Flood Insurance Rate Map are also declared to be a part of this
chapter.
   3.   Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries.  The boundaries of the
zoning district shall be determined by scaling distances on the Official Flood
Plain Zoning Map.  Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
the boundaries of the district as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the Mayor
shall make the necessary interpretation.  The person contesting the location of
the district boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their
case and submit technical evidence.
   4.   Compliance.  No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations
which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   5.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions.  It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions.  However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions,
the provision of this chapter shall prevail.  All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   6.   Interpretation.  In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
   7.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.  The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on engineering and scientific methods of study.  Larger floods may
occur on rare occasions.  Flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural
causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by debris.  This
chapter does not imply that areas outside the Flood Plain Districts or land
uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or flood
damages.  This chapter shall not create liability on the part of Ely or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   8.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
160.04   ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
The areas within the jurisdictions of this chapter are hereby divided into the
following districts:
   1.   Floodway District (FW),
   2.   Floodway Fringe District (FF), and
   3.   General Flood Plain District (FP).
The boundaries are shown on the Official Flood Plain Zoning Map.  Within these
districts all uses not allowed as Permitted Uses or permissible as Conditional
Uses are prohibited unless a variance to the terms of this chapter is granted
after due consideration by the Board of Adjustment.
160.05   FLOODWAY (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FW). 
   1.   Permitted Uses.  The following uses shall be permitted within the
Floodway District to the extent they are not prohibited by any other ordinance
(or underlying zoning district) and provided they do not include placement of
structures, factory-built homes, fill or other obstruction, the storage of
material or equipment, excavation, or alteration of a watercourse.
      A.   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor
plant nurseries, horticulture, viticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod
farming and wild crop harvesting.
      B.   Industrial-commercial uses such as loading areas, parking areas,
airport landing strips.
      C.   Private and public recreational uses such as golf courses, tennis
courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps,
swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish
hatcheries, shooting preserves, target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting
and fishing areas, hiking and horseback riding trails.
      D.   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas and play
areas.
      E.   Such other open-space uses similar in nature to the above uses.
   2.   Conditional Uses.  The following uses which involve structures
(temporary or permanent), fill, storage of materials or equipment may be
permitted only upon issuance of a Conditional Use Permit by the Board of
Adjustment.  Such uses must also meet the applicable provisions of the Floodway
District Performance Standards. 
      A.   Uses or structures accessory to open-space uses.
      B.   Circuses, carnivals, and similar transient amusement enterprises.
      C.   Drive-in theaters, new and used car lots, roadside stands, signs,
and billboards.
      D.   Extraction of sand, gravel, and other materials.
      E.   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers and wharves.
      F.   Utility transmission lines and underground pipelines.
      G.   Other uses similar in nature to uses described in subsection 1 and
this subsection which are consistent with the provisions of subsection 3 of
this section and the general spirit and purpose of this chapter.
   3.   Performance Standards.  All Floodway District uses allowed as a
permitted or conditional use shall meet the following standards.
      A.   No use shall be permitted in the Floodway District which would
result in any increase in the 100-year flood level.  Consideration of the
effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the assumption
that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly situated
lands. 
      B.   All uses within the Floodway District shall:
         (1)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
         (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
         (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
      C.   No use shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the channel or
floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch or any other
drainage facility or system.
      D.   Structures, buildings, and sanitary and utility systems, if
permitted, shall meet the applicable performance standards of the Floodway
Fringe District and shall be constructed or aligned to present the minimum
possible resistance to flood flows.
      E.   Buildings, if permitted, shall have low flood damage potential and
shall not be for human habitation.
      F.   Storage of materials or equipment that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited.  Storage
of other material may be allowed if readily removable from the Floodway
District within the time available after flood warning.
      G.   Watercourse alterations or relocations (channel changes and
modifications) must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within
the altered or relocated portion.  In addition, such alterations or relocations
must be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
      H.   Any fill allowed in the floodway must be shown to have some
beneficial purpose and shall be limited to the minimum amount necessary.
      I.   Pipeline river or stream crossings shall be buried in the streambed
and banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to channel
degradation and meandering or due to the action of flood flows.
160.06   FLOODWAY FRINGE (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FF). 
   1.   Permitted Uses.  All uses within the Floodway Fringe District shall be
permitted to the extent they are not prohibited by any other ordinance (or
underlying zoning district) and provided they meet applicable performance
standards of the Floodway Fringe District.
   2.   Performance Standards. 
      A.   All structures shall:
         (1)   Be adequately anchored to prevent floatation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure,
         (2)   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage, and
         (3)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage.
      B.   Residential Buildings.  All new or substantially improved
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basements,
elevated at a minimum of one foot above the 100-year flood level.  Construction
shall be upon compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one
foot above the 100-year flood level and extend at such elevation at least 18
feet beyond the limits of any structure erected thereon.  Alternate methods of
elevating (such as piers) may be allowed, subject to favorable consideration by
the Board of Adjustment and issuance of a Conditional Use Permit, where
existing topography, street grades, or other factors preclude elevating by
fill.  In such cases, the methods used must be adequate to support the
structure as well as withstanding the various forces and hazards associated
with flooding.  All new residential buildings shall be provided with a means of
access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the 100-year flood.
      C.   All new or substantially improved residential structures
nonresidential buildings shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated at a minimum of one foot above the 100-year flood level, or together
with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be flood proofed to such a level. 
When flood proofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the
State of Iowa shall certify that the flood proofing methods used are adequate
to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact, and uplift forces
and other factors associated with the 100-year flood; and that the structure,
below the 100-year flood level, is water tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water.  A record of the certification indicating
the specific elevation (in relation to  North American Vertical Datum 1988) to
which any structures are flood proofed shall be maintained by the Zoning
Administrator.
      D.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
         (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters.  Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            a.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
            b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
            c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
            d.   All such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles,
building access and low damage potential storage.
         (2)   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
         (3)   New and substantially improved structures must be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
      E.   Factory-Built Homes.
         (1)   Factory-built homes including those placed in existing factory-
built home parks or subdivisions shall be anchored to prevent floatation,
collapse, or lateral movement.
         (2)   Factory-built homes including those placed in existing factory-
built home parks or subdivisions shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor of the structure is a minimum of one foot above the
100-year flood level.
      F.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
         (1)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters.  Wastewater
treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a
level of flood protection equal to or greater than one foot above the 100-year
flood elevation.
         (2)   On site waste disposal systems shall be located or designed to
avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system during
flooding.
         (3)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.  Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the 100-year
flood elevation.
         (4)   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
      G.   Storage of materials and equipment that are flammable, explosive, or
injurious to human, animal, or plant life is prohibited unless elevated a
minimum of one foot above the 100-year flood level.  Other materials and
equipment must either be similarly elevated or:
            a.   Not be subject to major flood damage and be anchored to
prevent movement due to flood waters, or
            b.   Be readily removable from the area within the time available
after flood warning.
      H.   Flood control structural works such as levees, flood walls, etc.
shall provide, at a minimum, protection from a 100-year flood with a minimum of
three feet design freeboard and shall provide for adequate interior drainage. 
In addition, structural flood control works shall be approved by the Department
of Natural Resources.
      I.   No use shall affect the capacity or conveyance of the channel or
floodway of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch, or other drainage
facility or system.  In addition, any request to alter or relocate a
watercourse must be approved by the Department of Natural Resources prior to
consideration of approval by Ely. 
      J.   Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and subdivisions)
shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.  Development
associated with subdivision proposals shall meet the applicable performance
standards.  Subdivision proposals intended for residential development shall
provide all lots with a means of vehicular access that will remain dry during
occurrence of the 100-year flood.  Proposals for subdivisions greater than five
acres or 50 lots (whichever is less) shall include 100-year flood elevation
data for those areas location within the Flood Plain (overlay) District.
      K.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
         (1)   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are
incidental to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation
requirements where the following criteria are satisfied. 
            a.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.  Its size shall not exceed 600 square feet in size.  Those portions
of the structure located less than one foot above the BFE must be constructed
of flood-resistant materials.
            b.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage
potential purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage.  The structure
shall not be used for human habitation.
            c.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
            d.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
            e.   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and
heating equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above
the base flood elevation.
            f.   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of paragraph (D)(1) of this subsection.
         (2)   Exemption from the 100-year flood elevation requirements for
such a structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
coverage of the structure and its contents.
      L.   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within the
identified special flood hazard areas on the community’s official map either:
         (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
         (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
         (3)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for “manufactured homes” of this chapter.
A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or
jacking system is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      M.   Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be buried in the streambed
and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to
channel degradation and meandering.
160.07   GENERAL FLOOD PLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT (FP). 
   1.   Permitted Uses.  The following uses shall be permitted within the
General Flood Plain District to the extent they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance (or underlying zoning district) and provided they do not include
placement of structures, factory-built homes, fill or other obstruction, the
storage of materials or equipment, excavation, or alteration of a watercourse.
      A.   Agricultural uses such as farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant
nurseries, horticulture, viticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming, and
wild crop harvesting.
      B.   Industrial-commercial uses such as loading areas, parking areas, and
airport landing strips.
      C.   Private and public recreational uses such as golf courses, tennis
courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps,
swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish
hatcheries, shooting preserves, target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting
and fishing areas, hiking and horseback riding trails.
      D.   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play
areas.
   2.   Conditional Uses.  Any use which involves placement of structures,
factory-built homes, fill or other obstructions, the storage of materials or
equipment, excavation, or alteration of a watercourse may be allowed upon
issuance of a Conditional Use Permit by the Board of Adjustment.  All such uses
shall be reviewed by the Department of Natural Resources to determine:
      A.   Whether the land involved is either wholly or partly within the
floodway or floodway fringe, and
      B.   The 100-year flood level.
   3.   Performance Standards.  All Floodway District uses allowed as a
Permitted or Conditional Use shall meet the following standards:
      A.   All conditional uses, or portions thereof, to be located in the
floodway as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet the
applicable provisions and standards of the Floodway (Overlay) District.
      B.   All conditional uses, or portions thereof, to be located in the
floodway fringe as determined by the Department of Natural Resources shall meet
the applicable provisions and standards of the Floodway (Overlay) District.
160.08   APPOINTMENT, DUTIES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   1.   The Zoning Administrator designated by the City Council shall
administer and enforce this chapter and will herein be referred to as the
Administrator.
   2.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to the following:
      A.   Review all flood plain development permit applications to assure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
      B.   Review flood plain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, state and local governmental
agencies.
      C.   Record and maintain a record of the elevation (in relation to North
American Vertical Datum 1988) of the lowest floor (including basements) of all
new or substantially improved buildings or the elevation to which new or
substantially improved structures have been flood proofed.
      D.   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of Natural
Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a watercourse and
submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Insurance Administrator.
      E.   Keep a record of all permits, appeals, variances, and such other
transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this
Ordinance.
      F.   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
      G.   Notify the Federal Insurance Administration of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
      H.   Review subdivision proposals to insure such proposals are consistent
with the purpose of this ordinance and advise the City Council of potential
conflicts.
160.09   FLOOD PLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
A flood plain development permit issued by the Administrator shall be secured
prior to any flood plain development (any manmade change to improved and
unimproved real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other
structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operations), including the placement of factory-built homes.
160.10   APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
Application shall be made on forms furnished by the Administrator and shall
include the following:
   1.   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
   2.   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done (i.e.,
lot, block, tract, street address or similar description) that will readily
identify and locate the work to be done.
   3.   Identification of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
   4.   Elevation of the 100-year flood.
   5.   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of the
lowest floor (including basement) of buildings or of the level to which a
building is to be flood proofed.
   6.   For buildings being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the building prior to the improvements.
   7.   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably necessary
for the purpose of this chapter.
160.11   ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATION.
The Administrator shall, within a reasonable time, make a determination as to
whether the proposed flood plain development meets the applicable provisions
and standards of this chapter and shall approve or disapprove the application. 
For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed, in writing, of the specific
reasons therefor.  The Administrator shall not issue permits for variances
except as directed by the Board of Adjustment.
160.12   CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATION AND PLANS.
Flood Plain Development Permits issued on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement or
construction.  Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.  The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished fill,
building floor elevations, flood proofing, or other flood protection measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to
the use or occupancy of any structure.
160.13   CONDITIONAL USES, APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   1.   Appointment and Duties of Board of Adjustment.  A Board of Adjustment
is hereby established which shall hear and decide applications for Conditional
Uses upon which the Board is authorized to pass under this chapter; appeals;
and requests for variances to the provisions of this chapter; and shall take
other action which is required of the Board.
   2.   Conditional Uses.  Requests for Conditional Uses shall be submitted to
the Administrator, who shall forward such to the Board of Adjustment for
consideration.  Such requests shall include information deemed necessary to the
Board of Adjustment.
   3.   Appeals.  Where it is alleged there is any error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of this Ordinance, the aggrieved party may appeal such action. 
The notice of appeal shall be filed with the Board of Adjustment and with the
official from whom the appeal is taken and shall set forth the specific reason
for the appeal.  The official from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to
the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
   4.   Variances.  The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon request in
specific cases such variances from the terms of this ordinance that will not be
contrary to the public interest, where owing to special conditions a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance will result in unnecessary
hardship.  Variances granted must meet the following applicable standards:
      A.   No variance shall be granted for any development within the Floodway
District which would result in any increase in the 100-year level. 
Consideration of the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based
upon the assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for
similarly situated lands.
      B.   Variances shall only be granted upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and a determination that
granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional
threats to public safety, or extraordinary public expense; create nuisances, or
cause fraud on or victimization of the public.
      C.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard to afford
relief.
      D.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for buildings than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Zoning
Administrator that the issuance of a variance will result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00 of
insurance coverage and such construction increases risks to life and property.
      E.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   5.   Hearing and Decisions of the Board of Adjustment.
      A.   Hearings.  Upon the filing with the Board of Adjustment of an
appeal, an application for a Conditional Use or request for a Variance, the
Board shall hold a public hearing.  The Board shall fix a reasonable time for
the hearing and give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to parties in
interest.  At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney and present written or oral evidence.  The Board may require the
appellant or applicant to provide such information as is reasonably deemed
necessary and may request the technical assistance and/or evaluation of a
professional engineer or other expert person or agency, including the
Department of Natural Resources.
      B.   Decisions.  The Board shall arrive at a decision on an Appeal,
Conditional Use or Variance within a reasonable time.  In passing upon an
appeal, the Board may, so long as such action is in conformity with the
provisions of this ordinance, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify
the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from, and it shall
make its decision, in writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the
reasons for its decision.  In granting a Conditional Use or Variance, the Board
shall consider such factors as contained in this section and may prescribe such
conditions as contained in Section
160.15.
160.14   FACTORS UPON WHICH THE DECISION OF THE BOARD SHALL BE BASED.
In passing upon applications for Conditional Uses or Variances, the Board shall
consider all relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
   1.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
   2.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or downstream
to the injury of others.
   3.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions.
   4.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
   5.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
City.
   6.   The requirements of the facility for a flood plain location.
   7.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding for
the proposed use.
   8.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
   9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for the area.
   10.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
   11.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood water expected at the site.
   12.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this chapter.
   13.   The cost of providing government services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems), facilities, streets and bridges.
160.15   CONDITIONS ATTACHED TO CONDITIONAL USES OR VARIANCES.
Upon consideration of the factors listed above, the Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of Conditional Uses or Variances as it deems
necessary to further the purpose of this chapter.  Such conditions may include,
but not necessarily be limited to:
   1.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
   2.   Limitation on periods of use and operation.
   3.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed restrictions.
   4.   Requirements for construction and channel modifications, dikes, levees,
and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the Department of
Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative to achieving
the purpose of this chapter.
   5.   Flood proofing measures shall be designed consistent with the flood
protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, durations, rate
of raise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated
with the regulatory flood.  The Board of Adjustment shall require that the
applicant submit a plan or document certified by a registered professional
engineer that the flood proofing measures are consistent with the regulatory
flood protection elevation and associated flood factors for the particular
area.
160.16   APPEALS TO THE COURT.
Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision of the
Board of Adjustment may present to a court of record a petition, duly verified,
setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying
the grounds of the illegality.  Such petition shall be presented to the court
within thirty days after the filing of the decision in the office of the Board.
160.17   NONCONFORMING USES.
A structure or the use of a structure on land which was lawful before the
passage or amendment of this Ordinance, but which is not in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
   1.   No structural alteration, addition, or repair to any nonconforming
structure over the life of the structure shall exceed 10 percent of its value
at the time of its becoming a nonconforming use, unless the structure is
permanently changed to a conforming use.
   2.   If such use is discontinued for 18 consecutive months, any future use
of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
   3.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including floods, to an extent of 50 percent or more of its value prior to
destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   4.   Uses or adjuncts thereof which are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   5.   Except as provided in subsection 4 above, any use which has been
permitted as a Conditional Use or Variance shall be considered a conforming
use.
160.18   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of Conditional Uses or Variances) shall constitute a
misdemeanor.  Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than
$100.00 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.  Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.  Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the City of Ely from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy violation.  In addition to the above remedies, a
violation of this chapter is a municipal infraction pursuant to Section 364.22
of the Code of Iowa.
160.19   AMENDMENTS.
The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this chapter may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed.  No
amendment, supplement, change, or modification shall be undertaken without
prior approval of the Department of Natural Resources.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
EDITOR’S NOTE
The Ely Zoning Ordinance of 1992, and amendments thereto, contained in a
separate volume, are a part of this Code of Ordinances and are in full force
and effect.  The following ordinances have been adopted amending the
Official Zoning Map of the City and are specifically saved from repeal.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
135           September 29, 1993
142           November 11, 1996
143           November 11, 1996
144           November 11, 1996
145           November 11, 1996
155           May 11, 1998
192           January 8, 2007
201           December 10, 2007
205           August 11, 2008
207           October 13, 2008
210           October 13, 2008
216           November 9, 2009
219           April 16, 2010
226           May 9, 2011
233           March 11, 2013
238           May 12, 2014
240           May 11, 2015
242           November 9, 2015
253           March 13, 2017
263           October 16, 2017
 
CHAPTER 170
SUBDIVISION CONTROL
170.01  Short Title                                 170.28  Inspection of Improvements
170.02  Purpose                                     170.29  Release or Reduction of Performance
                                                     Bond
170.03  Policy                                      170.30  Maintenance of Improvements
170.04  Application and Jurisdiction                170.31  Deferral or Waiver of Required
                                                     Improvements
170.05  Interpretation                              170.32  Issuance of Certificates of Occupancy
170.06  Duration of Approval of Preliminary Plat    170.33  Improvements Required
170.07  Definitions                                 170.34  Design Standards Are Minimum
170.08  Procedure                                   170.35  Conformance to Applicable Rules and
                                                     Regulations
170.09  Pre-Submission Consultations                170.36  Subdivision Name
170.10  Requirements of Preliminary Plat            170.37  Monuments
170.11  Submission of Preliminary Plat              170.38  Character of the Land
170.12  Referral of Preliminary Plat                170.39  Lots
170.13  Review of Preliminary Plat                  170.40  Blocks
170.14  Action by the Commission on the Preliminary 170.41  Streets; General Requirements
Plat
170.15  Action by Council on Preliminary Plat       170.42  Street; Design Standards
170.16  Effective Period of Tentative Approval      170.43  Storm Sewers and Drainage
170.17  Completion of Improvements                  170.44  Water Facilities
170.18  Performance Bond                            170.45  Sewage Facilities
170.19  Final Plat                                  170.46  Sidewalks
170.20  Requirements of the Final Plat              170.47  Utilities
170.21  Submission of Final Plat                    170.48  Preservation of Natural Features and
                                                     Amenities
170.22  Referral of Final Plat                      170.49  Nonresidential Subdivision
170.23  Action by Commission on Final Plat          170.50  School and Park Reservations
170.24  Action by Council on Final Plat             170.51  Improvements within Unincorporated
                                                     Jurisdiction
170.25  Re-subdivision of Land                      170.52  Variations and Exceptions
170.26  Completion of Improvements                  170.53  Changes and Amendments
170.27  Performance Bond                            170.54  Enforcement, Violations and Penalties
 
170.01   SHORT TITLE.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The City of Ely, Iowa,
Subdivision Regulations.”
170.02   PURPOSE.
The purpose of these regulations is to establish minimum standards for the
design, development, and improvement of all new subdivisions and re-
subdivisions so that existing developments will be protected and so that
adequate provisions are made for public  services and to promote the health,
safety and general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354)
170.03   POLICY.
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to consider the subdivision
of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided land as subject to the
control of the City to provide for the orderly, efficient and economical
development of the City.  And further:
   1.   Character of Land.  Land to be subdivided shall be of such character
that it can be used safely for building purposes without danger to health or
peril from fire, flood or other menace.
   2.   Regulations to Supplement and Facilitate.  It is intended that these
subdivision regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of
provisions and standards, ordinances or regulations of the City.
170.04   APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION.
Every owner or agent of any tract or parcel of land lying within the City or,
pursuant to Section 354.9 of the Code of Iowa, within two miles of the
corporate limits of the City, who has subdivided or shall hereafter subdivide
the same into three or more parts for the  purpose of laying out an addition,
subdivision, building lot or lots, or acreage lots shall cause plats of such
area to be made in the form, and containing the information as hereafter set
forth, before selling any lots therein contained or placing the plat on record.
170.05   INTERPRETATION.
In their interpretation or application, the provisions of these regulations
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, and general welfare.  Specifically:
   1.   Relationship to Other Public Provisions.  These regulations are not
intended to interfere with, or abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or
regulation, statute, or other provision of law.  Where any provision of these
regulations imposes a restriction different from those imposed by any other
provision of these regulations or any other ordinance, rule, or regulation, or
other provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose
higher standards shall control.
   2.   Relationship to Private Provisions.  These regulations are not intended
to abrogate any easement, covenant or any other private agreement or
restriction, provided that where the provisions of these regulations are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations than such easement,
covenant, or other private agreement or restriction, the requirements of these
regulations shall govern.
170.06   DURATION OF APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The approval of the preliminary application by the City Council does not create
legally buildable lots or entitle the owner to building permits, but it is an
authorization to proceed with preparation of construction plans, a developer's
agreement, permit applications leading to construction of improvements, and
ultimately the preparation of a final plat.  Approval of the preliminary
application shall be effective for a period of 24 months, after which time
approval of the plat is null and void unless extensions or reinstatements are
approved by the Council or final plats are recorded as follows:
   1.   Upon written request of the subdivider, the City Council by resolution
may grant up to an 18 months extension of time. Consideration of granting an
extension or reinstatement may include but is not limited to the following
criteria: considerations related to changes in surrounding properties; changes
in infrastructure needs; changes in code requirements; or other factors related
to whether the subdivision as approved remains appropriate and in the best
interests of the City; or
   2.   Final plats of all or parts of the preliminary plat are recorded prior
to the expiration of the preliminary plat. Any time a final plat is recorded,
the preliminary plat approval shall be automatically extended for a new period
of 18 months from the date Council approved the recorded final plat.
(Ord. 280 - Jun. 19 Supp.)
170.07   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter certain terms or words used herein shall be interpreted
or defined as follows:
   1.   “Alley” means a public or private right-of-way primarily designed to
serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose
principal frontage is on some other street.
   2.   “Applicant” means the owner of land to be subdivided or said owner’s
representative.
   3.   “Block” means a tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination
of streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of
waterways, or corporate boundaries.
   4.   “Bond” means any form of security including a cash deposit, surety
bond, collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to the Council.
   5.   “Building” means any structure built for support, shelter, or enclosure
of persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind and includes any
structure.
   6.   “Central water system” means a private water system and it includes
water treatment distribution facilities established by the developer to serve a
new subdivision or re-subdivision.
   7.   “Central sewage system” means a private sewer system including
collection and treatment  facilities established by the developer to serve a
new subdivision or re-subdivision.
   8.   “City Engineer” means the person designated by the Council to furnish
engineering assistance for the administration of these regulations.
   9.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of Ely, Iowa.
   10.   “Cul-de-sac” means a municipal service street with only one outlet and
having an appropriate terminal for safe and convenient reversal of traffic
movement.
   11.   “Developer” means the owner of land proposed to be subdivided or said
owner’s representative.
   12.   “Easement” means an authorization by a property owner for the use by
another, and for a specified purpose, of any designated part of said owner’s
property.
   13.   “Frontage” means that portion of a lot abutting on a street or way and
complying with the setback and front yard requirements as they may exist, but
it shall not be considered as the side of a corner lot.
   14.   “Individual sewage disposal system” means a septic tank, seepage tile
sewage disposal system, or any other approved sewage treatment device.
   15.   “Local board of health” means a County, City, or district board of
health.
   16.   “Lot” means a portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership
or for building development.
   17.   “Municipal arterial streets” means those streets which connect
principal traffic generating areas or connect such areas with other street
systems.
   18.   “Municipal collector streets” means those streets that collect traffic
from municipal service streets and connect to other street systems.
   19.   “Municipal service street” means those streets that primarily provide
access to property.
   20.   “Owner” means any person, firm, corporation, or any legal entity
having legal title to or  sufficient proprietary interest in the land to be
sought to be subdivided under these regulations.
   21.   “Plat” means a map, drawing, or chart on which the developer’s plan of
the subdivision of land  is presented and which he submits for approval and
intends in final form, to record.
   22.   “Public improvement” means any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway,
sidewalk, pedestrian crosswalk, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot
improvement, or other facility for which the local government may ultimately
assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established.
   23.   “Right-of-way” means a strip of land occupied or intended to be
occupied by a street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line,
oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or
for another special use.  The usage of the term “right-of-way” for land
platting purposes means that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown
on a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels
adjoining such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of
such lots or parcels.  Rights-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks, water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains, or any other use involving maintenance by
a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on
which such right-of-way is established.
   24.   “Roadway” means that portion of the street available for vehicular
traffic, and where curbs are laid, the portion from back to back of curbs.
   25.   “Street” means and includes any public way, highway, street, avenue,
boulevard, parkway, or  other public thoroughfare, and each of such words
includes every other of them, and includes the entire width between property
lines.
   26.   “Subdivider” means a person, firm, or corporation undertaking the
subdivision or re-subdivision of a tract or parcel of land.
   27.   “Subdivision” means the division of land into three or more lots or
other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership or building development.  The term, when appropriate to
the context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land
subdivided, or, the re-subdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into
lots or other divisions of land, or, if a new street is involved, any division
of land.
   28.    “Surveyor” means a land surveyor licensed and registered under the
provisions of Chapter 542B of the Code of Iowa.
170.08   PROCEDURE.
In obtaining final approval of a proposed subdivision by the Council, the
subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat in accordance with the requirements
of Section
170.10 of this chapter and install the required improvements or provide a
performance bond.
170.09   PRE-SUBMISSION CONSULTATIONS.
Prior to the submission of the preliminary plat of any subdivision, the
subdivider is encouraged to meet with the City Engineer and other City
officials responsible for the administration of these regulations to be advised
of the procedural steps, design standards required improvements, and platting
requirements.  During such meetings, no commitments shall be made which will be
binding upon the City.
170.10   REQUIREMENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
Every proposed subdivision shall be submitted for tentative approval in the
form of a preliminary plat prior to the submission of a final record plat.  The
purpose of  the preliminary plat and accompanying material is to provide all
facts needed for the Commission and Council to  determine whether the proposed
subdivision is satisfactory from the standpoint of the public interest.  The
following graphic and descriptive material is required to be provided on the
preliminary plat and in the accompanying material.
   1.   Contents of Preliminary Plat.  The preliminary plat shall be prepared
by a registered engineer at a convenient scale of not more than one inch equals
100 feet, may be prepared in pen or pencil, and the sheets shall be numbered in
sequence if more than one sheet is used.  The following information shall be
shown on the preliminary plat:
      A.   Title, scale, north point and date.
      B.   Subdivision boundary lines, showing dimensions, bearings, angles,
and references to section, townships and range lines or corners.  Exterior
boundaries are to be indicated with a solid heavy line.
      C.   Present and proposed streets, alleys and sidewalks, with their
rights-of-way, in or adjoining the subdivision, including dedicated widths,
approximate gradients types and widths of surfaces curbs, and planting strips,
and location of street lights, fire hydrants, and street signs.
      D.   Proposed layout of blocks and lots showing dimensions, radii, chords
and the square foot areas of lots that are not rectangular and the lot and
block number in numerical order.
      E.   Building setback or front yard lines.
      F.   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds, or other public, semi-public or community purposes.
      G.   Present and proposed easements, showing locations, widths, purposes
and limitations.
      H.   Location and names of adjoining parcels of un-subdivided and
subdivided land.
      I.   Boundaries of the highest known flood of record affecting the
subdivision and the source of information.
      J.   If the proposed subdivision borders on a lake or stream, the
distances and bearings of meander line established not less than 20 feet back
from the mean high water mark of the lake or stream.
      K.   Existing blocks, lots, and buildings.
      L.   Present and proposed utility systems including sanitary and storm
sewers, other drainage facilities, water lines, gas mains, electric utilities,
and other facilities, with the size, capacity, invert elevation and location of
each.  If the subdivision is within one mile of public sewer or water or both,
notation shall be made of the direction and distance to such facilities.
      M.   Proposed name of the subdivision.
      N.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider builder, and surveyor
who prepared the preliminary plat, and the surveyor who will prepare the final
plat.
      O.   Official legal description of the property being platted.
      P.   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet if the
general slope of the site is less than 10 percent and at vertical intervals of
not more than five feet if the general slope is 10 percent or greater.
      Q.   Existing and proposed zoning of the proposed subdivision and
adjoining property.
      R.   Location of all proposed monuments.
   2.   Information to Be Provided in Accompanying Material.  The following
information shall accompany a plat when filing:
      A.   A complete listing of all existing covenants which apply to the land
to be subdivided, and a complete listing of all covenants which are proposed by
the developer to apply to the subdivided land.
      B.   A table of the following information:
         (1)   Total acreage of subdivision.
         (2)   Total number of lots.
         (3)   Minimum, average, and maximum lot area.
         (4)   Acreage of public lands to be dedicated or reserved other than
streets.
      C.   An attorney’s opinion showing that the fee title to the property
proposed for subdividing is in the owner's name as shown on the plat and
showing any encumbrances that may exist against the land.
      D.   If any portion of the subdivision is to have access on a State or
County jurisdictional street, a written and signed statement acknowledging and
permitting the access by the duly authorized official of the appropriate
jurisdiction.
      E.   Specifications and engineering construction drawings including
profiles, cross-sections, and details of all public improvements.  Elevations
shall be referred to mean sea level as exhibited in standard U.S. Geological
Survey Maps.  Specifications and references shall meet those required by the
City’s construction and specification standards, including a site grading plan
for the entire subdivision.
170.11   SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat in accordance with the
provisions of Section
170.10 and shall file with the Clerk an application in triplicate for the
tentative  approval of the plat.  The application shall include:
   1.   Forms and Fees.  Be made on forms available from the Clerk together
with a fee equal to the amount charged by a Registered Engineer.
   2.   Number of Plats.  Be accompanied by a minimum of 10 copies of the
preliminary plat.
   3.   Time of Submission.  Be presented to the Clerk at least four weeks
prior to the regular meeting of the Commission.
170.12   REFERRAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The Clerk shall immediately refer one copy of the preliminary plat to a
Registered Engineer, seven copies to the Commission and retain one copy in the
City office.  In the case of a subdivision outside the corporate limits of the
City, the Clerk shall refer one copy of the preliminary plat to the County
Board of Supervisors.
170.13   REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The preliminary plat shall be reviewed by the Commission to determine its
conformity with these regulations and all other ordinances and regulations in
force affecting subdivisions.  Copies of the preliminary plat may be
transmitted to other City or school officials, as the Commission deems
necessary, for their recommendations concerning matters within their
jurisdiction.  Their recommendations, along with those of the City Engineer,
shall be transmitted to the Commission within three weeks from the date the
plat is filed.  The Commission may confer with the subdivider on changes deemed
advisable and the kind and extent of such improvements to be made.
170.14   ACTION BY THE COMMISSION ON PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The Commission shall, as soon as possible, but not more than 30 days
thereafter, pass upon the preliminary plat as originally submitted or
modified.  If the Commission does not act within 30 days, the preliminary plat
shall be deemed to be approved; provided, however, the subdivider may agree to
an extension of the time period not to exceed an additional 60 days.  It shall
then set forth its recommendations in writing, whether of approval,
modification, or disapproval.
   1.   Reasons for Changes or Disapproval.  In the event that substantial
changes or modifications are made  by the Commission or the Commission
recommends disapproval of the plat, it shall give its reasons therefor and it
may request and cause the revised preliminary plat to be re-submitted in the
same manner as the original plat.
   2.   Tentative Approval.  If the Commission recommends approval, it shall
express its approval as “tentative approval” and state the conditions of such
approval, if any.
   3.   Documenting Approval.  The action of the Commission shall be documented
on seven copies of the preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any
conditions determined.  One copy shall be returned to the subdivider, one copy
shall be retained by the Commission, and five copies shall be referred to the
Council.
170.15   ACTION BY COUNCIL ON PRELIMINARY PLAT.
Within 30 days of the receipt of the preliminary plat, the Council shall, by
resolution, tentatively approve or disapprove the plat.  If the preliminary
plat is disapproved, objections to it shall be returned to the Commission for
further review and the Clerk shall notify the subdivider of such action.  If
approved, the Clerk shall sign five copies of the preliminary plat with the
notation of the date the preliminary plat received the Council’s tentative
approval.  One copy shall be returned to the Commission and three copies shall
be returned to the subdivider.  The tentative approval by the Council shall not
constitute final acceptance of the addition or subdivision by the City but an
authorization to proceed with preparation of the final plat.
170.16   EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF TENTATIVE APPROVAL.
The tentative approval of a preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of
one year at the end of which time final approval must have been obtained.  Any
plat not receiving final approval within this period of time shall be void, and
the subdivider shall be required to resubmit a new plat for tentative approval
subject to all new zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations.
170.17   COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
Before the Council will approve the final plat, all of the required
improvements shall be constructed and accepted by formal resolution of the
Council.  Before passage of said resolution of acceptance, the City Engineer
shall report that said improvements meet all City specifications and ordinances
or other City requirements, and the agreements between the subdivider and the
City.
170.18   PERFORMANCE BOND.
The completion requirement for improvements may be waived in whole or in part
if the subdivider will post a performance bond with the Council guaranteeing
that improvements not completed will be constructed within a period of one year
from final acceptance of the plat; but final acceptance of the plat will not
constitute final acceptance by the City of any improvements to be constructed. 
Improvements will be accepted only after their construction has been
completed.  Such performance bond shall be satisfactory to the City Attorney as
to form, sufficiency, and manner of execution.  Upon recommendation of the
Commission, the Council may extend the completion date set forth in the bond
for a maximum period of one additional year.
170.19   FINAL PLAT.
The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved,
and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop
at the time, provided however, that such portion conforms to all requirements
of these regulations.
170.20   REQUIREMENTS OF THE FINAL PLAT.
The following graphic and descriptive material is required to be provided on
the final plat and in the accompanying material.
   1.   Contents of the Final Plats.  Every plat of a subdivision offered for
record shall conform to all of the following provisions where applicable:
      A.   The plat shall be a permanent copy or a photographic print made on a
stable plastic film.  Exact copies of the plat to be recorded shall be provided
to and filed by the County Recorder, Assessor and Auditor.  The original plat
drawing shall remain the property of the registered land surveyor.
      B.   The size of each sheet showing any portion of the subdivided lands
shall not be greater than 18 inches by 24 inches or less than eight and one-
half inches by 11 inches.
      C.   Whenever more than one sheet is used to accurately portray the lands
subdivided, each sheet shall display both the number of the sheet and the total
number of sheets included in the plat, as well as clearly labeled match lines
indicating where the other sheets adjoin.  An index sheet shall be provided to
show the relationship between the sheets.
      D.   A maximum scale of 100 feet to one inch shall be used.  The scale
used shall be clearly stated and graphically illustrated by a bar scale drawn
on every sheet showing any portion of the lands subdivided.
      E.   Subdivisions shall be designated, by name or as otherwise
prescribed, in bold letters inside  the margin at the top of each sheet
included in the plat.
      F.   An arrow indicating the northern direction shall be drawn in a
prominent place on each sheet included in the plat, as well as the scale and
date.
      G.   All monuments to be of record shall be adequately described and
clearly identified on the plat.  When additional monuments are to be
established subsequent to the recording of the plat, the location of the
additional monuments shall be shown on the plat.
      H.   Sufficient survey data shall be shown to positively describe the
bounds of every lot, block, street, easement, or other areas shown on the plat,
as well as the outer boundaries of the subdivided lands.
      I.   All distances shall be shown in feet to the nearest one-hundredth of
a foot, and in accordance with the definition of a foot adopted by the United
States Bureau of Standards.  All measurements shall refer to the horizontal
plane.
      J.   The course of every boundary line shown on the plat shall be
indicated by a direct bearing reference or by an angle between the boundary
line and an intersecting line having a shown bearing, except when the boundary
line has an irregular or constantly changing course, as along a body of water,
or when a description of the boundary line is better achieved by measurements 
shown  at points or intervals along a meander line having a shown course.  All
bearings and angles shown shall be given to at least the nearest minute of arc.
      K.   Curve data shall be stated in terms of radius, central angle, and
tangent, or length of curve.  In all cases, the curve data must be shown for
the line affected.
      L.   The minimum unadjusted acceptable error of closure for all
subdivision boundaries shall be 1:10,000 and shall be 1:5,000 for any
individual lot.
      M.   When any lot or portion of the subdivision is bounded by an
irregular line, the major portion of that lot or subdivision shall be enclosed
by a meander line showing complete data with distances along all lines
extending beyond the enclosure to the irregular boundary shown with as much
certainty as can be determined or as “more or less,” if variable.  In all
cases, the true boundary shall be clearly indicated on the plat.
      N.   All interior excepted parcels shall be clearly indicated and labeled
“not a part of this plat””
      O.   All adjoining properties shall be identified, and where such
adjoining properties are a part of  a recorded subdivision, the name of that
subdivision shall be shown.  If the subdivision platted is a re-subdivision of
a part or the whole of a previously recorded subdivision, sufficient ties shall
be shown to controlling lines appearing on the earlier plat to permit an
overlay to be made.  Re-subdivisions shall be labeled as such in a subtitle
following the name of the subdivision wherever the name appears on the plat.
      P.   The purpose of any easement shown on the plat shall be clearly
stated and shall be confined to only those easements pertaining to public
utilities including gas, power, telephone, water, sewer, and such drainage
easements as are deemed necessary for the orderly development of the land
encompassed within the plat.
      Q.   A strip of land shall not be reserved by the subdivider unless the
land is of sufficient size and shape to be of some practical use or service as
determined by the Council.
      R.   The purpose of all areas dedicated to the public must be clearly
indicated on the plat.
      S.   The plat shall contain a statement by a registered land surveyor
that the plat was prepared by the surveyor or under the surveyor’s direct
personal supervision and shall be signed and dated by the surveyor and bear the
surveyor’s Iowa registration number or seal.
      T.   Street names and clear designation of public alleys.
      U.   Block and lot numbers.
      V.   Name and address of owner and subdivider.
      W.   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved for
public use.
      X.   The plat shall be signed and acknowledged by the subdivision land
owner and his or her spouse.
      Y.   A sealed certification of the accuracy of the plat by the registered
land surveyor who drew the plat.
   2.   Information to Be Provided in Accompanying Material.  The following
material shall be submitted with the final plat:
      A.   A correct legal description of the subdivision land.
      B.   A statement by the proprietors and their spouses, if any, that the
plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire,
signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the
acknowledgments of deeds.  The statement by the proprietors may also include a
dedication to the public of all lands within the plat that are designated for
streets, alleys, parks, open areas, school property, or other public use, if
the dedication is approved by the Council.
      C.   A statement from the mortgage holders or lienholders, if any, that
the plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their
desire, signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the
acknowledgment of deeds.  An affidavit and bond as provided for in Section
354.12 of the Code of Iowa may be recorded in lieu of the consent of the
mortgage or lienholder.  When a mortgage or lienholder consents to the
subdivision, a release of mortgage or lien shall be recorded for any areas
conveyed to the City or dedicated to the public.
      D.   An opinion by an attorney-at-law who has examined the abstract of
title of the land being platted.  The opinion shall state the names of the
proprietors and holders of mortgages, liens or other encumbrances on the land
being platted and shall note the encumbrances, along with any bonds securing
the encumbrances.  Utility easements shall not be construed to be encumbrances
for the purpose of this section.
      E.   A certificate of the County Treasurer that the land is free from
certified taxes and certified special assessments or that the land is free from
certified taxes and that the certified special assessments are secured by bond
in compliance with Section 354.12 of the Code of Iowa.
      F.   A resolution and certificate for approval by the Council and for
signatures of the Mayor and Clerk.
      G.   A statement by the Auditor approving the name or title on the
subdivision plat.
      H.   A certificate by the City Engineer that all required improvements
and installations have been completed according to the construction plans
submitted with the preliminary plat, or that a performance bond guaranteeing
completion has been approved by the City Attorney and filed with the Clerk, or
that the Council has agreed that the City will provide the necessary
improvements and installations and assess the costs against the subdivider or
future property owners in the subdivision.
      I.   The encumbrance bond, if any.
170.21   SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT.
The subdivider shall prepare a final plat in accordance with the provisions of
Section
170.20 and shall file with the Clerk an application in triplicate for the final
approval of the plat.  The application shall:
   1.   Forms and Fees.  Be made on forms available from the Clerk together
with a fee of $10.00 per lot, only if there have been any changes made on the
preliminary plat.
   2.   Number of Copies of Plat.  Be accompanied by a minimum of 10 copies of
the final plat.
   3.   Offers of Dedication.  Be accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers
of dedication to the public of all streets, city uses, utilities and easements,
in a form approved by the City Attorney.
   4.   Time of Submission.  Be presented to the Clerk at least four weeks
prior to the regular meeting of the Commission.
170.22   REFERRAL OF FINAL PLAT.
The Clerk shall immediately refer one copy of the final plat to Registered
Engineer, seven copies to the Commission, and retain one copy in the City
office.  In the case of a subdivision outside the corporate limits of the City,
the Clerk shall refer one copy of the final plat to the County Board of
Supervisors.
170.23   ACTION BY COMMISSION ON FINAL PLAT.
The Commission shall, upon receiving the final plat, as soon as possible, but
not more than 30 days thereafter, consider the final plat, and if the same is
recommended for approval, shall submit its recommendation of approval to the
Council, together with a certified copy of its resolution showing the action of
the Commission.  If the Commission recommends approval of the final plat, such
approval and the date thereof shall be noted on the plat over the signature of
both the Chairman and Secretary of the Commission and the plat and five copies
shall be transmitted to the Council, and one copy shall be returned to the
subdivider.
170.24   ACTION BY COUNCIL ON FINAL PLAT.
Upon receipt of the certification by the Commission, the Council shall, within
60 days, either approve or disapprove the final plat.
   1.   Disapproval of Plat.  In the event that said plat is disapproved by the
Council, such disapproval shall  be expressed in writing and shall point out
wherein said proposed plat is objectionable.
   2.   Acceptance of Plat.  In the event that said plat is found to be
acceptable and in accordance with these regulations, the Council shall accept
same.
   3.   Final Approval and Recording of Plat.  The passage of a resolution by
the Council accepting the plat shall constitute final approval of the platting
of the area shown on the final plat, but the subdivider or owner shall cause
such plat to be recorded in the office of the County Recorder of the county
where the land to be subdivided is located, and shall file satisfactory
evidence of such recording in the office of the Clerk before the City shall
recognize the plat as being in full force and effect.
170.25   RE-SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
The following requirements shall govern the re-subdividing of land.
   1.   Procedure for Re-Subdividing.  For any change in a map of an approved
or recorded subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout shown on
such map, or area reserved for public use indicated on the map, or any lot
line, or if it affects any map or plan legally established prior to the
adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions, such parcel shall be
approved by the same procedure, rules, and regulations as for a subdivision.
   2.   Acreage Lots.  Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the
subdivision plat shows one or more lots containing more than one acre of land
and there are indications that such lots will eventually be re-subdivided into
smaller building sites, the Commission and Council may require that such parcel
of land allow for future opening of streets and the ultimate extension of
adjacent streets.  Easements providing for the future opening and extension of
such streets may be made a requirement of the plat.
170.26   COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
Before the final plat is approved by the Council, all applicants shall be
required to complete, in accordance with the Council’s decision and to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer, all the street, sanitary, and other
improvements as required in these regulations, specified in the preliminary
plat, and as approved by the Council, and to dedicate same to the City, free
and clear of all liens and encumbrances on  the property and public
improvements thus dedicated.
170.27   PERFORMANCE BOND.
The Council in its discretion may waive the requirement that the applicant
complete and dedicate all public improvements prior to approving the final
plat, and that, as an alternative, the applicant post a bond at the time of
application for final plat approval in an amount estimated by the Council as
sufficient to secure to the City the satisfactory construction, installation,
and dedication of the incomplete portion of required improvements.  In
addition:
   1.   Approved by City Attorney.  Such performance bond shall comply with all
statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to the City Attorney as to
form, sufficiency, and manner of execution as set forth in these regulations.
   2.   Completion Period.  The period within which required improvements must
be completed shall be specified by the Council in the resolution approving the
final plat shall be incorporated in the bond, and shall not exceed one year
from date of final approval.
   3.   Extension of Completion Period.  The performance bond shall be approved
by the Council as to the amount and surety and conditions satisfactory to the
Council.  The Commission may, upon proof of difficulty, recommend to the
Council extension of the completion date set forth in such bond for a maximum
period of one additional year.  The Council may at any time during the period
of such bond accept a substitution of principal or sureties on the bond.
   4.   Temporary Improvements.  The applicant shall build and pay for all
costs of temporary improvements required by the Council and shall maintain same
for the period specified by the Council.  Prior to construction of  any
temporary facility or improvement, the developer shall file with the City a
separate suitable bond for temporary facilities, which bond shall insure that
the temporary facilities will be properly constructed, maintained and removed.
   5.   Failure to Complete Improvement.  For subdivisions for which no
performance bond has been posted, if the improvements are not completed within
the period specified by the Council in the resolution approving the plat, the
approval shall be deemed to have expired.  In those cases where a performance
bond has been posted and required improvements have not been installed within
the terms of such performance bond, the City may declare the bond to be in
default and require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the
extent of the building development at the time the bond is declared to be in
default.
170.28   INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
The Council shall provide for inspection of required improvements during
construction and insure their satisfactory completion.  The applicant shall pay
to the City an inspection fee equal to the actual cost of inspection.  These
fees shall be due and payable upon demand of the City and no building permits
or certificates of occupancy shall be issued until all fees are paid.  The
subdivider shall furnish the Council with a construction schedule prior to the
commencement of any and all construction, and notify the City not less than 24
hours in advance of readiness for required inspections.
170.29   RELEASE OR REDUCTION OF PERFORMANCE BOND.
The performance bond may not be released  or reduced except as follows:
   1.   Certificate of Satisfactory Completion.  The Council will not accept
dedication of required improvements, nor release nor reduce a performance bond,
until the City Engineer has submitted a certificate stating that all required
improvements have been satisfactorily completed and until the applicant’s
engineer has certified to the City through submission of detailed “as-built”
plans of the subdivision indicating location, dimensions, materials, and other
information required by the City, that all public improvements are in
accordance with construction plans for the subdivision.
   2.   Reduction of Performance Bond.  A performance bond may be reduced upon
actual dedication of public improvements and then only to the ratio that the
public improvement dedicated bears to the total public improvements for the
plat.
170.30   MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
Improvements shall be maintained and a maintenance bond provided as follows:
   1.   Maintenance of Improvements Before Acceptance.  The applicant shall be
required to maintain all improvements on the individual subdivided lots and
provide for snow removal on streets and sidewalks, if required, until
acceptance of said improvements by the Council.  If there are any certificates
of occupancy on a street not dedicated to the City, the City may on 12 hours’
notice plow the street or effect emergency repairs and charge same to
applicant.
   2.   Maintenance Bond.  The applicant shall be required to file a
maintenance bond with the governing body, prior to dedication, in an amount
considered adequate by the Council and in a form satisfactory to the City
Attorney, in order to assure the satisfactory condition of the required
improvements for a period of two years after the date of their acceptance by
the governing body and dedication of same to the local government.
170.31   DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
Required improvements may be deferred or waived as follows:
   1.   Waiver of Required Improvements.  The Council may defer or waive at the
time of final approval, subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any
or all such improvements as in its judgment are not requisite in the interests
of the public health, safety, and general welfare, or which are inappropriate
because of inadequacy or lack of connecting facilities.
   2.   Deferral of Required Improvements.  Whenever it is deemed necessary by
the Council to defer the construction of any improvement required herein
because of incompatible grades, future planning, inadequate or lack of
connecting facilities, or for other reasons, the applicant shall pay his share
of the costs of the future improvements to the City prior to the approval of
the final plat, or the applicant may post a bond insuring completion of said
improvements upon demand of the City.
170.32   ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until  the extent of street
improvement is adequate for vehicular access by the prospective occupant and by
police and fire equipment.
170.33   IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
The subdivider shall install and construct all improvements required by these
regulations in accordance with the specifications and under the supervision of
the Council and to its satisfaction.
170.34   DESIGN STANDARDS ARE MINIMUM.
The standards and details of design herein contained are intended only as
minimum requirements so that the general arrangement and layout of a
subdivision may be adjusted to a wide variety of circumstances.  However, in
the design and development of the subdivision, the subdivider shall use
standards consistent with the site conditions so as to assure an economical,
pleasant and durable neighborhood.
170.35   CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
In addition to the requirements established herein, all subdividers shall
comply with the following laws, rules, and regulations.
   1.   State Statutes.  All applicable statutes of the State of Iowa.
   2.   City Plans.  Any comprehensive plan, public utilities plan, and capital
improvements program of the City.
   3.   State Agency Rules.  The requirements and rules of State agencies such
as the State Department of Environmental Quality, State Department of Health,
and the State Department of Transportation, where applicable.
   4.   County Standards and Regulations.  The standards and regulations of the
County Board of Supervisors and County commissions, boards, and agencies, where
applicable.
   5.   City Standards and Regulations.  The standards and regulations adopted
by the Council, boards, commissions, and agencies of the City.
   6.   Plat Approval and Conformity.  Plat approval may be withheld if a
subdivision is not in conformance with the above guides, or policy and purposes
of these regulations.
170.36   SUBDIVISION NAME.
The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate, or too closely
approximate phonetically, the name of any other subdivision in the area covered
by these regulations.  The Council, after consultation with the Commission,
shall have the final authority to designate the name of the subdivision which
shall be determined at preliminary plat approval.
170.37   MONUMENTS.
Monuments shall be in conformance with the following requirements:
   1.   Establishment of Permanent Control Monuments.  Prior to the offering of
the plat of any subdivision for record, the surveyor shall confirm the prior
establishment of permanent control monuments at each controlling corner on the
boundaries of the parcel or tract of land being subdivided.  If no permanent
control monuments exist, the surveyor shall establish at least two permanent
control monuments for each block created, or if the area subdivided into lots
is less than a block in size, at least two permanent control monuments shall be
established for the subdivision.  Permanent control monuments shall be
constructed of reasonably permanent material solidly embedded in the ground and
capable of being detected by commonly used magnetic or electronic equipment. 
The surveyor shall affix a cap of reasonably inert material bearing an embossed
or stencil cut marking of the Iowa registration number of the surveyor to the
top of the monument.
   2.   Other Monuments of Record.  Other monuments established prior to the
recording of the plat of the subdivision and described on the plat shall be
considered monuments of record and shall be given the same weight as original
permanent control monuments if the monuments remain undisturbed in their
original positions.  The additional monuments shall be constructed and embedded
according to the provisions for permanent control monuments prescribed in
subsection 1 of this section.
   3.   Establishment and Recording of Other Monuments.  Monuments other than
the permanent control monuments required in subsection 1 of this section shall
not be required to be established before the recording of the plat or the
conveyance of lands by reference to the plat if the registered land surveyor
includes in the surveyor’s statement on the plat that the additional monuments
required by these regulations shall be established before a specified future
date.
   4.   Additional Monuments Required.  Additional monuments shall be
constructed and embedded  according to the provisions for permanent control
monuments prescribed in subsection 1 of this section, and shall be set all of
the following locations whether set prior to the recording of the plat, or
subsequent to such recording:
      A.   At every corner and angle point of every lot, block or parcel of
land created.
      B.   At every point of intersection of the outer boundary of the
subdivision with an existing or created right-of-way line of any street,
railroad, or other way.
      C.   At every point of curve, tangency, reversed curve, or compounded
curve on every right-of-way line established.
   5.   Placement of Monument.  When the placement of a monument required by
this chapter at the  prescribed location is impractical, it is permissible to
establish a reference monument in close proximity to the prescribed location. 
If the reference monument is established prior to the recording of the plat and
its location properly shown on the plat, the reference monument shall have the
same status as other monuments of record.  Where any point requiring monuments
has been previously monumented, the existence of the monument shall be 
confirmed by the surveyor.  The existing monument shall be considered a
monument of record when properly shown and described on the recorded plat.
170.38   CHARACTER OF THE LAND.
Land which the City finds to be unsuitable for subdivision or development due
to flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth
formations or topography, utility easements, or other features which will
reasonably be harmful to the safety, health, and general welfare of the present
or future inhabitants of the subdivision or its surrounding areas or both,
shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are formulated by
the subdivider and approved by the Council,  upon recommendation of the
Commission, to solve the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions. 
Such land shall be set aside for uses as shall not involve such a danger.
170.39   LOTS.
The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation shall be appropriate for the
location of the subdivision and for the type of development and use
contemplated.
   1.   Lot Size.  Minimum lot dimensions and sizes shall conform to the
requirements of the zoning regulations where applicable, but in no case shall a
lot contain less than 9,500 square feet of area or be less than 80 feet wide
measured at the building line.
      A.   Residential lots where not served by public sewer shall be of
sufficient size, as determined by the City and subject to any applicable State
or County rules or regulations, to accommodate the type of private sewage
disposal system proposed by the developer.
      B.   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for commercial
and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street service
and parking facilities required by the type of use and development
contemplated.
      C.   Corner lots for residential use shall have an extra 15 feet of width
to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
   2.   Street Access.  Each lot shall be provided with satisfactory access to
a public street.
   3.   Double Frontage and Reverse Frontage Lots.  Double frontage and reverse
frontage lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation of
residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation.  A planting screen easement of at
least 10 feet, and across which there shall be no right of access, shall be
provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or other
disadvantageous use.
   4.   Side Lot Lines.  Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles
to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   5.   Lot Drainage.  Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive
drainage away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be
coordinated with the general storm drainage pattern for the area.  Drainage
shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from
each lot to adjacent lots.
   6.   Building Lines.  Building lines conforming with zoning standards shall
be shown on all lots within the platted area.  Where the subdivided area is not
under zoning control, the Council may require building lines in accordance with
the needs of each subdivision.
170.40   BLOCKS.
Blocks shall conform to the following requirements:
   1.   Provision for Lots.  Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for
two tiers of lots of appropriate depths.  Exceptions shall be permitted in
blocks adjacent to arterial streets, railroads, or waterways.
   2.   Design Considerations.  The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall
be determined with due regard to:
      A.   Provision for adequate building sites.
      B.   Zoning requirements where applicable.
      C.   Topography.
      D.   Needs for convenient access, control, and safety of street traffic
circulation.
   3.   Block Lengths.  The lengths of blocks shall be appropriate to the type
of development contemplated, but block lengths in residential developments
shall not exceed 2,000 feet, or be less than 500 feet.  Wherever practicable,
blocks along arterial and collector streets shall not be less than 1,000 feet
in length.
   4.   Easement Reservation.  In blocks over 800 feet in length, the Council
may require the reservation of an easement to accommodate utilities, drainage
facilities, or pedestrian traffic.
   5.   Pedestrian Crosswalks.  Pedestrian crosswalks, not less than 10 feet
wide, may be required by the Council through the center of blocks more than 800
feet in length.  Pedestrian crosswalks shall not exceed 12 percent in grade
unless steps of an approved design are to be constructed.
170.41   STREETS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
Streets shall conform with the following general requirements:
   1.   Frontage on Improved Roads.  No subdivision shall be approved unless
the area to be subdivided shall  have frontage on and access from an existing
street.
   2.   Grading and Improvement Plan.  Streets shall be graded and improved and
conform to the City construction standards and specifications and shall be
approved as to design and specifications by the City Engineer, in accordance
with the construction plans required to be submitted.
   3.   Topography and Arrangement.  Streets shall be in conformance with the
following requirements  related to topography and arrangement.
      A.   Streets shall be related appropriately to the topography.  All
streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as possible of the building
sites at, or above, the grades of the streets.  Grades of streets shall conform
as closely as possible to the original topography.  A combination of steep
grades and curves shall be avoided.  Specific standards are contained in the
design standards of these regulations.
      B.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of streets and dedicated right-of-way.
      C.   All arterial streets shall be properly related to special traffic
generators such as industries, business districts, schools, churches, and
shopping centers; to population densities; and to the pattern of existing and
proposed land uses.
      D.   Municipal service streets shall be laid out to conform as much as
possible to the topography to discourage use by through traffic, to permit
efficient drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of
streets necessary to provide convenient and safe access to property.
      E.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless in the opinion of the Council such extension is not
necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision
with the existing layout or the most advantageous future development of
adjacent tracts.
      F.   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
access ways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas, and walks and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of
movement between the various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
   4.   Access to State or County Jurisdictional Roads.  Whenever any part of a
subdivision is designed with access to a road under State or County
jurisdiction, permission for access to such roads shall be obtained from the
appropriate jurisdiction and such access shall be designed according to the
standards of the appropriate jurisdiction.
   5.   Access to Arterial Streets.  Where a subdivision borders on or contains
an existing or proposed arterial street, the Council may require that lot
access to such streets be limited by one of the following means:
      A.   Lots shall be designed so as to back onto the primary arterial and
front onto a parallel municipal service street; no access shall be provided
from the arterial street, and screening shall be provided in a strip of land
along the rear property line of such lots.
      B.   A series of cul-de-sacs entered from and designed generally at right
angles to such a parallel street, with the rear lines of their terminal lots
backing onto the arterial street.
      C.   A frontage or service road, separated from the primary arterial by a
planting or grass strip and having access thereto at suitable points.
   6.   Street Names.  Streets that are in alignment with others already
existing shall bear the name of the existing streets.  The proposed names of
new streets shall not duplicate or sound similar to existing street names. 
Street names shall be subject to the approval of the Council and Commission.
   7.   Street Name Signs.  Street name signs are to be placed at all
intersections within or abutting the subdivision the type and location of which
to be approved by the Council.  The City shall install all street name signs. 
The applicant shall deposit with the City at the time of final subdivision
approval, the estimated cost of installation of each street sign required by
the Council.
   8.   Street Lights.  Installation of street lights shall be required in
accordance with design and specification standards approved by the Council.
   9.   Construction of Streets and Dead-End Streets.  Streets and dead-end
streets shall be in conformance with the following requirements:
      A.   Construction of Streets.  The arrangement of streets shall provide
for the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for convenient movement of  traffic, effective fire
protection, and for efficient provision of utilities.  If the adjacent property
is undeveloped and  the street must be a dead-end street temporarily, the
right-of-way shall be extended to the property line.  A temporary T or L shaped
turnabout shall be provided on all temporary dead-end streets, with the
notation on the subdivision plat that land outside the normal street right-of-
way shall revert to the abutting street whenever the  street is continued.  The
Council may limit the length of temporary dead-end streets in accordance with
the design standards of these regulations.
      B.   Permanent Dead-End Streets.  Where a road does not extend to the
boundary of the subdivision and its continuation is not required by the Council
for access to adjoining property, its terminus shall normally not be nearer to
such boundary than 150  feet.  However, the Council may require the reservation
of an appropriate easement to accommodate drainage facilities, pedestrian
traffic, or utilities.  A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be provided at the end of
a permanent dead-end street in accordance with City construction standards and
specifications.  For greater convenience to traffic and more effective police
and fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall, in general, be limited
in length in accordance with the design standards of these regulations.
170.42   STREETS; DESIGN STANDARDS.
The following design standards shall apply to the design of streets:
   1.   General.  In order to provide for streets of suitable location, width,
and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory
access to police, fire fighting, snow removal, sanitation, and street
maintenance equipment and to coordinate streets so as to compose a convenient
system and avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties the following design
standards for streets are hereby required:
      A.   A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between reverse
curves on municipal arterial and municipal collector streets, and 75 feet on
municipal service streets.
      B.   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one
point by more than 10 degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a radius
adequate to insure a sight distance of not less than 100 feet for municipal
service and municipal collector streets, and of such greater radii as the
Council shall determine for special cases.
      C.   Minimum Roadway and Right-of-Way Standards:
         (1)   Municipal arterial streets shall have a right-of-way width of
not less than 80 feet and a roadway width of not less than 44 feet.
         (2)   Municipal collector streets shall have a right-of-way width of
not less than 60 feet and a roadway width of not less than 36 feet.
         (3)   Municipal service streets shall have a right-of-way of not less
than 50 feet and a roadway width of not less than 28 feet.
         (4)   Frontage streets shall have a right-of-way width of not less
than 40 feet and a roadway width of not less than 26 feet.
         (5)   Cul-de-sacs shall meet all the requirements for a municipal
service street and, in addition, shall provide a turnaround with a right-of-way
radius of 50 feet and a roadway radius of 40 feet.  No cul-de-sac shall exceed
500 feet in length.
      D.   Street grades, wherever feasible shall not exceed the following:
         (1)   Municipal arterial streets - six percent.
         (2)   Municipal collector streets - eight percent.
         (3)   Municipal service streets - 10 percent.
         (4)   Frontage streets - six percent.
      E.   All changes in street grade shall be connected by vertical curves of
minimum length in feet equal to 20 times the algebraic difference in
percentages of grade.
      F.   No street grade shall be less than one-half of one percent.
   2.   Street Surfacing and Improvements.  After sewer, water and other
utilities to be located underground within the right-of-way have been installed
by the applicant, the applicant shall construct curbs and gutters and shall
surface or cause to be surfaced roadways to the widths prescribed in these
regulations.  Said surfacing shall be of Portland concrete cement, unless
otherwise specifically recommended by the City Engineer, recommended for
approval by the Commission and approved by the City Council.  Adequate
provision shall be made for culverts, drains, and bridges.  All road pavement,
shoulders, drainage improvements and structures, curbs, turnarounds, and
sidewalks shall conform to all construction standards and specifications
adopted by the City, and shall be incorporated into the construction plans
required to be submitted by the developer for plat approval.
   3.   Excess Right-of-Way.  Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards
designated in these regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes.  Such slopes
shall not be in excess of three to one.
   4.   Railroads and Limited Access Highways.  Railroad rights-of-way and
limited access highways where so located as to affect the subdivision of
adjoining lands shall be treated as follows:
      A.   In residential districts a buffer strip at least 25 feet in depth in
addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall be
provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access highway.  This
strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated on the plat: 
“This strip is reserved for screening.  The placement of structures hereon is
prohibited.”
      B.   In districts zoned for business, commercial, or industrial uses the
nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
shall wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
      C.   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade  shall, to the extent practicable, be at a
distance of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way.  Such distance
shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for
future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
   5.   Intersections.  The following standards shall apply to the design of
intersections:
      A.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles.  A proposed intersection of two new streets at an angle of
less than 75 degrees shall not be acceptable.  An  oblique street should be
curved approaching an intersection and should be approximately at right angles
for at least 100 feet therefrom.  Not more than two streets shall intersect at
any one point unless specifically approved by the Council.
      B.   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street.  Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
150 feet shall not be permitted, except where the intersected street has
separated dual drives without median breaks at either intersection.  Where
streets intersect major streets, their alignment shall be continuous. 
Intersection of major streets shall be at least 800 feet apart.
      C.   Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two municipal service
streets shall be at least 20 feet; and minimum curb radius at an intersection
involving a municipal collector street shall be at least 25 feet.  Abrupt
changes in alignment within a block shall have the corners cut off in
accordance with standard engineering practice to permit safe vehicular
movement.
      D.   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical.  In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a
leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a two percent rate at a
distance of 60 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the
intersecting street.
      E.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation, including
trees, in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent
deemed  necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
      F.   The cross-slopes on all streets, including intersections, shall be
three percent or less.
   6.   Bridges.  Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined by
the Council, shall be constructed at the full expense of the applicant without
reimbursement from the City.  The sharing expense for the construction of
bridges not of primary benefit to the applicant as determined by the Council,
will be fixed by special agreement between the Council and the applicant.  Said
cost shall be charged to the applicant pro rata as the percentage of his land
developed and so served.
   7.   Alleys.  The following design standards for alleys shall be required of
all subdividers:
      A.   Alleys shall be prohibited in residential districts.
      B.   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts,
except that the Council may waive this requirement where other definite and
assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading,
unloading and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
      C.   Alleys shall have a right-of-way of not less than 30 feet and a
roadway width of not less than 20 feet.
      D.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
      E.   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turn-around facilities at the dead end, as
determined by the Council.
   8.   Street Dedications and Reservations.  The following provisions shall
apply to street dedications and reservations:
      A.   Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so as to
eliminate or avoid new perimeter half-streets.  Where an existing half street
is adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the street shall be 
improved and dedicated by the subdivider.  The Council may authorize a new
perimeter street where the subdivider improves and dedicates the entire
required street right-of-way width within his own subdivision boundaries.
      B.   Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow street or when City 
plans or zoning setback regulations indicate plans for realignment or widening
a road that would require use of some of the land in the subdivision, the
applicant shall be required to improve and dedicate at his expense such areas
for widening or realignment of such roads.  Such frontage roads and streets
shall be improved and dedicated by the applicant at his own expense to the full
width as required by these subdivision regulations.  Land reserved for any
street purposes may not be counted in satisfying yard or area requirements of
the zoning regulations whether the land is to be dedicated to the City in fee
simple or an easement is granted to the City.
170.43   STORM SEWERS AND DRAINAGE.
The following requirements shall apply to the provision of storm sewers and
drainage:
   1.   General Requirements.  The Commission shall not recommend for approval
any plat of a subdivision which does not make adequate provision for storm or
flood water run-off channels or basins.  The storm water drainage system shall
be separate and independent of any sanitary sewer system.  Storm sewers, where
required,  shall be designed by methods as approved by the Council, and a copy
of design computations shall be submitted along with plans.  Inlets shall be
provided so that surface water is not carried across or around any
intersection, or for a distance of more than 600 feet in the gutter.  When
calculations indicate that curb  capacities are exceeded at a point, no further
allowance shall be made for flow beyond that point, and basins shall be used to
intercept flow at that point.  Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown
for each and every lot and block.
   2.   Nature of Storm Water Facilities.  The applicant may be required by the
Council to carry away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that
may exist either previously to, or as a result of the subdivision.  Such
drainage facilities shall be located in the road right-of-way where feasible,
or in perpetual unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be
constructed in accordance with the construction standards and specifications.
      A.   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall
install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance, adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of storm waters,
subject to the specifications of the Council.  However, in subdivisions
containing lots less than 15,000 square feet in area and in business and
industrial districts, underground storm sewer systems shall be  constructed
throughout the subdivisions and be conducted to an approved out-fall.
      B.   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided eventually,
as determined by the Council, the subdivider shall make arrangements for future
storm water disposal by a public storm sewer system at the time the plat
receives final approval.  Provision for such connection shall be incorporated
by inclusion in the  performance bond required for the subdivision plat.
      C.   A culvert or other drainage facility shall in each case be large
enough to accommodate potential runoff from its entire upstream drainage area
whether inside or outside the subdivision.  The Council shall determine the
necessary size of the facility, based on the provisions of the construction
standards and specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed
development permitted by applicable zoning regulations.
      D.   The Council shall also study the effect of each subdivision on
existing downstream drainage facilities outside the area of the subdivision. 
City drainage studies together with such other studies as shall be appropriate
shall serve as a guide to needed improvements.  Where it is anticipated that
the additional runoff incident to the development of the subdivision will
overload an existing downstream drainage facility, the Council may withhold
approval of the subdivision until provision has been made for the recovery of
the cost for the improvement of said potential condition in such sum as the
Council shall determine.  No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate
drainage will be provided to an adequate drainage watercourse or facility.
      E.   The Council may, when it deems it necessary for the health, safety,
or welfare of the present and future population of the area and necessary to
the conservation of water, drainage, and sanitary facilities, prohibit the
subdivision of any portion of the property which lies within the flood plain of
any stream or drainage course.
   3.   Dedication of Drainage Easements.  The following shall apply to the
dedication of drainage easements.
      A.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse drainage way,
channel, or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse, and of
such width and construction or both as will be adequate for the purpose. 
Wherever possible, it  is desirable that the drainage be maintained by an open
channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum potential volume
of flow.
      B.   Drainage easements:
         (1)   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within street rights-of-way,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for such drainage
facilities shall be provided across property outside the street lines and with
satisfactory access to the road.  Easements shall be indicated on the plat. 
Drainage easements shall be carried from the street to a natural watercourse or
to other drainage facilities.
         (2)   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
         (3)   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation easement of land on both sides of existing watercourses, to a
distance to be determined by the Council.
         (4)   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as  drainage
ways.  Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be computed in
determining the area requirement of any lot.
170.44   WATER FACILITIES.
Water facilities shall be provided as follows:
   1.   General Requirements.  The following general requirements shall apply
to the provision of water facilities:
      A.   Where a public water main is accessible the subdivider shall install
adequate water facilities, including fire hydrants, subject to City
specifications.  All water mains shall be at least four inches in diameter.
      B.   Water main extensions shall be approved by the City.
      C.   To facilitate the above, the location of all fire hydrants and all
water supply improvements shall be shown on the preliminary plat.
   2.   Individual Wells and Central Water Systems.  The following requirements
shall apply to the provision of individual wells and central water systems.
      A.   In the discretion of the Council, if a public water system is not
available, individual wells may be used or a central water system provided in
such a manner that an adequate supply of potable water will be available to
every lot in the subdivision.  Water samples shall be submitted to the
appropriate County or State agency for testing, and individual wells and
central water systems shall be approved by the appropriate County or State
health authorities.  Orders of approval shall be submitted to the Council.
      B.   If the Council requires that a connection to a public water main be
eventually provided as a condition to approval of an individual well or central
water system, the applicant shall make arrangements for future water service at
the time the plat receives final approval.  Performance or cash bonds may be
required to insure compliance.
   3.   Fire Hydrants.  Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions
except those coming under subsection 2 of this section.  Fire hydrants shall be
located no more than 500 feet apart and within 500 feet of any structure.
170.45   SEWAGE FACILITIES.
Sewage facilities shall be provided as follows:
   1.   General Requirements.  The applicant shall install sanitary sewer
facilities in a manner prescribed by the City construction standards and
specifications.  All plans shall be designed in accordance with the rules,
regulations and standards of the City and the State Department of Environmental
Quality or State Department of Health.  Plans shall be approved by the above
agencies.
   2.   Construction of Sanitary Sewerage Systems.  Sanitary sewerage systems
shall be constructed as follows:
      A.   Where a public sanitary sewerage system is reasonably accessible the
applicant shall connect with same and provide sewers accessible to each lot in
the subdivision.
      B.   Where public sanitary sewerage systems are not reasonably accessible
but will become available within a reasonable time, not to exceed 15 years, the
applicant may choose one of the following alternatives:
         (1)   Install a central sewerage system, operated and maintained by
the benefited property owners.  Where plans for future public sanitary sewerage
systems exist, the applicant shall install the sewer lines, laterals, and mains
to be in permanent conformance with such plans and ready for connection to such
public sewer mains.
         (2)   Individual disposal systems, provided the applicant shall
install sanitary sewer lines, laterals, and mains from the street curb to a
point in the subdivision boundary where a future connection with the public
sewer main shall be made.  Sewer lines shall be lain from the house to the
street line, and a connection shall be available in the home to connect from
the individual disposal system to the sewer system when the public sewers
become available.  Such sewer systems shall be capped until ready for use and
shall conform to all plans for installation of the public sewer system, where
such exist, and shall be ready for connection to such public sewer main.
      C.   Where sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible and will
not become available for period in excess of 15 years, the applicant shall
install individual disposal systems or central sewage systems.
   3.   Individual Disposal System Requirements.  If public sewer facilities
are not available and individual disposal systems are proposed, minimum lot
areas shall conform to the requirements of applicable zoning regulations and
these regulations.  Percolation tests and test holes shall be made as directed
by the City and the results submitted to the local board of health.
   4.   Water Supply Interconnections.  There shall be no physical connection
between a public or private potable water supply system and a sewer which will
permit the passage of any sewage or polluted water into the potable supply. 
Sewers shall be kept removed from water supply wells or other water supply
sources and structures.
170.46   SIDEWALKS.
The following requirements shall apply to the provision of sidewalks:
   1.   Location of Sidewalks.  Sidewalks shall be included within the
dedicated non-pavement right-of-way  of  all streets.
   2.   Construction of Sidewalks.  Sidewalks shall be improved as required in
subsection 2 of Section
170.42 of these regulations.
170.47   UTILITIES.
The following shall apply to the provision of utilities.
   1.   Location.  The Council may require that all utility facilities,
including, but not limited to gas, electric power, telephone, and CATV cables,
be located underground throughout the subdivision.  All utility facilities
existing and proposed throughout the subdivision shall be shown on the
preliminary plat.  Underground service connections to the street property line
of each platted lot shall be installed at the subdivider’s expense.  At the
discretion of the Council, the requirement for service connections to each lot
may be waived in the case of adjoining  lots to be retained in single ownership
and intended to be developed for the same primary use.
   2.   Easements.  Easements shall be provided as follows:
      A.   Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for
utilities.  Such easements shall be at least 10 feet wide.  Proper coordination
shall be established between the subdivider and the applicable utility
companies for the establishment of utility easements established in adjoining
properties.
      B.   Where topographical or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual
unobstructed easements at least 10 feet in width shall be provided alongside
lot lines with satisfactory access to the street or rear lot lines.  Easements
shall be indicated on the plat.
170.48   PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES.
Existing features which would add  value to residential development or to the
City as a whole, such as trees, watercourses and falls, beaches, historic
spots, and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be preserved in the design of
the subdivision.  No trees shall be removed from any subdivision nor any change
of grade of the land effected until approval of the preliminary plat has been
granted.  All trees on the plat required to be retained shall be preserved, and
all trees where required shall be protected against change of grade.
170.49   NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
The following provisions shall apply to nonresidential subdivisions:
   1.   General.  If a proposed subdivision includes land that is used for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect
to such land shall make such provision as the Council may require.  A
nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of these
regulations, as well as such additional standards required by the Council, and
shall conform to the proposed land use and standards established in City plans
and regulations.
   2.   Standards.  In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City that the street,
parcel, and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses
anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity.  The following
principles and standards shall be observed.
      A.   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions
to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      B.   Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      C.   Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to
street, curb, gutter, and sidewalk design and construction.
      D.   Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer, and  storm water
drainage.
      E.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip when necessary.
      F.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas.
170.50   SCHOOL AND PARK RESERVATIONS.
If land to be subdivided contains sites that are designated in City plans or
plans of other public bodies to be used for schools or parks, the developer
shall reserve such site for such use.  If sites which have been reserved are
not acquired by the City or other public body within two years of the date of
the preliminary plat approval, then such sites may be subdivided by the
developer.  The appropriate public body may release the reserved site sooner by
certifying to the Council that it does not intend to acquire such site within
the two-year period.
170.51   IMPROVEMENTS WITHIN UNINCORPORATED JURISDICTION.
Improvements in the two-mile unincorporated area under the jurisdiction of
these regulations shall be the same as required herein, provided they are not
less than that required by the applicable County subdivision regulations, and
provided further that all construction plans shall be approved by the County,
and completed public roads shall be accepted by the Board of Supervisors for
public maintenance.
170.52   VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
The following shall apply to the granting of variations or exceptions:
   1.   Hardships.  Where the Council finds that extraordinary hardships or
particular difficulties regarding the physical development of land may result
from strict compliance with these regulations, it may make variations or
exceptions to the regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the
public interest secured, provided that such variation or exception shall not
have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations; and
further provided the Council shall not grant variations or exceptions to these
regulations unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to
it in each specific case that:
      A.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in
the neighborhood in which the property is located.
      B.   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought, and are not
applicable generally, to other property.
      C.   Because of the particular physical surroundings shape or
topographical conditions of the  specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations were carried out.
      D.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a desire
to make more money out of the property.
   2.   Conditions.  In granting variations and exceptions the Council may
require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objectives of the standards or requirements of these regulations.
   3.   Procedure for a Variance.  A petition for any such variance shall be
submitted in writing by the developer at the time when the preliminary plat is
filed.  The petition shall state fully the grounds for the application and all
of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
170.53   CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
Any provisions of these regulations may be changed and amended from time to
time by the Council, provided, however, that such changes or amendments shall
not become effective until after a public hearing has been held, public notice
of which shall have been given as required by law.  Such proposed amendments
shall first be submitted to the Commission for study and recommendation before
the hearing is held.  The Commission shall forward its recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after which the Council shall give notice of and hold a
public hearing on the proposed amendment.
170.54   ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
No plat or subdivision within the City or within two miles thereof shall be
filed or recorded with the County, nor shall any plat or subdivision have any
validity until it complies with the provision of these regulations, has been
approved by the Council as herein set forth, and further:
   1.   Issuance of Building Permits.  No more than two building permits for
each separate tract existing at the time of the effective date of these
regulations shall be issued unless the tract has been platted in accordance
with these regulations; except that this provision shall not limit the number
of building permits that may be issued for accessory buildings as defined by
applicable land use regulations such as zoning and restricted residence
regulations or additions or improvements to a main or accessory building
already legally located upon said tract.
   2.   Sale or Lease Without Plat.  Any person who shall dispose of or offer
for sale or lease any lots in the City or addition to the City, until the plat
thereof has been acknowledged and recorded as provided in these regulations,
shall forfeit and pay $50.00 for each lot and part of lot sold or disposed of,
leased, or offered for sale.
CHAPTER 175
AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS
175.01  Short Title                    175.09  Airport Zoning Commission
175.02  Purpose                        175.10  Board of Adjustment
175.03  Definitions                    175.11  Variances
175.04  Airport Zones                  175.12  Finding Concerning Public
                                        Interest
175.05  Airport Zoning Map             175.13  Administration and Enforcement
175.06  Airport Zone Height Limitations175.14  Equitable Remedies
175.07  Use Restrictions               175.15  Conflicting Regulations
175.08  Nonconforming Uses             175.16  Prohibited Acts
 
175.01   SHORT TITLE.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Airport Zoning
Regulations.”
175.02   PURPOSE.
These regulations are adopted by the City Council of the City of Cedar Rapids,
Iowa, and the City Council of the City of Ely, Iowa, for the purpose of
exercising to the fullest extent possible the power granted by Chapter 329 of
the Code of Iowa pertaining to the restriction of airport hazards in the
vicinity of airports and creating airport hazard zones.
175.03   DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of these regulations, certain terms and words are hereby
defined. 
   1.   “Airport” means the Eastern Iowa Airport as now exists or as may
hereafter be added to or changed, located in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and Linn
County, Iowa, and owned by the City of Cedar Rapids, and under the management
and control of the Eastern Iowa Airport Commission by the provisions of Chapter
330 of the Code of Iowa.  The airport includes the area of land designed and
set aside for the landing and taking off of aircraft, and utilized or to be
utilized in the interest of the public for such purposes.  The word “airport”
as used in this chapter also means and includes The Eastern Iowa Airport as
shown in the Cedar Rapids Municipal Airport Master Plan adopted by the Cedar
Rapids Airport Commission on November 25, 1996, which is now on file in the
office of the Airport Director in the Administration Building at said Airport.
   2.   “Airport elevation” means the established elevation of the highest
point on the usable landing area, which is 863.9 feet above mean sea level.
   3.   “Airport hazard” means any structure or tree which obstructs the air
space required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking off at the
airport as herein defined, or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking
off of aircraft.  It also includes any use of land within any zone established
by these regulations in such a manner as to create electrical interference with
radio communication between the airport and aircraft, or unreasonably interfere
with electronic navigation aids, or make it difficult for pilots to distinguish
between airport lights and others; or result in glare in the eyes of pilots
using the airport, or impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport while
engaged in landing or taking off at the airport; or any other use within any
zone established by these regulations which is otherwise hazardous to such
landing or taking off of aircraft at the airport.
   4.   “Airport hazard area” means an area of land or water within the
territorial limits of the Eastern Iowa Airport Zoning Map, which is made a part
of these regulations, upon which an airport hazard might be established if not
prevented, as provided by these regulations.
   5.   “Approach surface” means a surface longitudinally centered on the
extended runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the
primary surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation
slope set forth in Section
175.06 of this chapter.  In plan the perimeter of the approach surface
coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.
   6.   “Approach, transitional, horizontal, and conical zones” - these zones
are set forth in Section
175.04 of this chapter.
   7.   “Board of Adjustment” means a Board consisting of five members
appointed as provided in Section
175.10.
   8.   “Conical surface” means a surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to 1 for a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet.
   9.   “Hazard to air navigation” means an obstruction determined to have a
substantial adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the
navigable airspace.
   10.   “Height” - for the purpose of determining the height limits in all
zones set forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be
mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   11.   “Horizontal surface” means a horizontal plane 150 feet above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with
the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
   12.   “Instrument runway” means a runway equipped or to be equipped with
precision or non-precision electronic navigation aid or landing air, or other
air navigation facilities, suitable to permit the landing of aircraft by an
instrument approach under restricted visibility conditions.
   13.   “Landing area” means the general area of the airport used for the
landing, take-off, or taxiing of aircraft, as indicated upon the Airport Zoning
Map.
   14.   “Larger than utility runway” means a runway that is constructed for
and intended to be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than 12,500
pounds maximum gross weight and jet powered aircraft.
   15.   “Municipalities” means the City of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and any city,
town, or county within the territorial limits of the Eastern Iowa Airport
Zoning Map hereinafter described, within which an airport hazard area might be
established.
   16.   “Nonconforming use” means any pre-existing structure, object of
natural growth, or use of land, which is inconsistent with the provisions of
this chapter or an amendment thereto.
   17.   “Non-instrument runway” means a runway other than an instrument
runway.
   18.   “Non-precision instrument runway” means a runway having an existing
instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only
horizontal guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in
non-precision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
   19.   “Obstruction” means any structure, growth, or other object, including
a mobile object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in Section
175.06 of this chapter.
   20.   “Person” means an individual firm, co-partnership, corporation,
company, association, joint stock association, or body politic, and includes a
trustee, receiver, assignee, or other similar representative thereof.
   21.   “Precision instrument runway” means a runway having an existing
instrument approach procedure utilizing an Instrument Landing System (ILS) or a
Precision Approach Radar (PAR).  It also means a runway for which a precision
approach system is planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout
plan or any other planning document.
   22.   “Primary surface” means a surface longitudinally centered on a
runway.  When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary
surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway; for military runways
or when the runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard
surface, the primary surface ends at each end of that runway.  The width of the
primary surface is set forth in Section
175.04 of this chapter.  The elevation of any point on the primary surface is
the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   23.   “Runway” means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing and
takeoff of aircraft along its length.
   24.   “Structure” means an object, including a mobile object, constructed or
installed by man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers,
smokestacks, and overhead transmission lines, and the poles or other structures
supporting the same.
   25.   “Transitional surfaces” means these surfaces extend outward at 90-
degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a
slope of seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces.  Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision
approach surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical
surface, extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of
the approach surface and at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
   26.   “Tree” means any object of natural growth.
   27.   “Utility runway” means a runway that is constructed for and intended
to be used by propeller driven aircraft of' 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight
and less.
   28.   “Visual runway” means a runway intended solely for the operation of
aircraft using visual approach procedures.
175.04   AIRPORT ZONES.
In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby created
and established certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the
approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces, and conical
surfaces as they apply to the Eastern Iowa Airport.  Such zones are shown on
the Airport Zoning Map dated December 30, 1997, and prepared by the Howard R.
Green Company.  An area located in more than one of the following zones is
considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation. 
The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
   1.   Runway Larger than Utility Visual Approach Zone.  The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500
feet wide.  The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,500
feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface.  Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   2.   Runway Larger than Utility with a Visibility Minimum Greater than
Three-Fourths Mile Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone.  The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500
feet wide.  The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,500
feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface.  Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   3.   Runway Larger than Utility with a Visibility Minimum as Low as Three-
Fourths Mile Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone.  The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet
wide.  The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 4,000 feet at
a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface.  Its centerline
is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   4.   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone.  The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet
wide.  The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet at
a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary surface.  Its centerline
is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   5.   Transitional Zones.  The transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces.
   6.   Horizontal Zone.  The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs
of 10,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of each
runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those
arcs.  The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional
zones.
   7.   Conical Zone.  The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
175.05   AIRPORT ZONING MAP.
There is hereby adopted and enacted an airport zoning district map dated
December 30, 1997, signed by the Mayor, and attested by the Clerk, which map is
on file in the office of the City Clerk, and is hereby incorporated into and
made a part of these regulations and that the boundaries of the various zoning
districts are herewith enacted and established as shown on said map subject to
the provisions hereafter set out relating to subsequent boundary changes and
amendments.  Said map is designed and intended as a method and means of setting
forth the boundaries of the various airport zoning districts as the same are
now shown on said map.  All modifications, references, markings and other
information shown thereon are hereby enacted and established as a part of the
official district map for the Eastern Iowa Airport and are made a part of these
regulations.  As relates to this chapter, said district map shall not be set
out in this Code of Ordinances and shall remain on file in the office of the
City Clerk after adoption and publication and shall constitute a part of this
chapter, the same as if set out herein.
175.06   AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS. 
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure or tree shall be
erected, altered, allowed to grow, or maintained in any zone created by this
chapter to a height in excess of the height limit herein established for such
zone.  Such height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in
question as follows:
   1.   Runway Larger Than Utility Visual Approach Zone.  Slopes 20 feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet
along the extended runway centerline.
   2.   Runway Larger than Utility with a Visibility Minimum Greater than
Three-Fourths Mile Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone.  Slopes 34 feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet
along the extended runway centerline.
   3.   Runway Larger than Utility with a Visibility Minimum as Low as Three-
Fourths Mile Non-Precision Instrument Approach Zone.  Slopes 34 feet outward
for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline.
   4.   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone.  Slopes 50 feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline; thence slopes upward 40 feet horizontally for each
foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of 40,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline.
   5.   Transitional Zones.  Slopes seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation which is 863.9 feet above mean sea level.  In addition to the
foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the-
approach surface, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface. 
Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical
zone, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for each
foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach
surface, and extending a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90
degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
   6.   Horizontal Zone.  Established at 150 feet above the airport elevation
or at a height of 1,013.9 feet above mean sea level.
   7.   Conical Zone.  Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at
the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport
elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
   8.   Excepted Height Limitations - Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or
growth of any tree to a height up to 35 feet above the surface of the land.
175.07   USE RESTRICTIONS.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport,
create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with
the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
175.08   NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   Regulations not Retroactive.  The regulations prescribed herein shall
not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other changes or
alterations of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulation as of the
effective date of these regulations, or otherwise interfere with the
continuance of any nonconforming use.  However, no pre-existing nonconforming
structure, tree, or use shall be replaced, rebuilt, altered, allowed to grow
higher, or be replanted so as to constitute a greater airport hazard than it
was when these regulations were adopted.  Nothing herein contained shall
require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any
structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the
effective date of these regulations and resolution is completed within one year
thereafter.
   2.   Marking and Lighting.  Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to
permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and
light as shall be necessary to indicate to the operator of aircraft in the
vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport hazards.  Such markers and
lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the
Eastern Iowa Airport Commission.
175.09   AIRPORT ZONING COMMISSION.
An Airport Zoning Commission shall be provided as follows.  The Zoning
Commission shall consist of five members, two of whom shall be appointed by the
City Council of the City of Ely and two of whom shall be selected by the City
Council of Cedar Rapids, and one additional member to act as Chairperson, who
shall be selected by a majority vote of the members appointed by the City of
Ely and the City of Cedar Rapids.  The terms of such members shall be as
provided by Section 329.9 of the Code of Iowa.  Such Airport Zoning Commission
shall follow the procedures as provided in Sections 414.4 and 414.6 of the Code
of Iowa, as required by Section 329.9 of the Code of Iowa.
175.10   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
A Board of Adjustment is hereby appointed as follows.  The Board shall consist
of five members, two of whom shall be appointed by the City Council of the City
of Ely and two of whom shall be appointed by the City Council of the City of
Cedar Rapids, and one additional member to act as Chairperson, who shall be
selected by a majority vote of the members appointed by the City of Ely and the
City of Cedar Rapids.  The terms of such members shall be as provided in
Section 329.12 of the Code of Iowa.  Each such Board shall have the powers and
duties, and shall follow the procedures, provided by Sections 414.9 to 414.19
of the Code of Iowa.
175.11   VARIANCES.
Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure, or to
permit the growth of any tree, or otherwise use his property in a manner which
would constitute a violation of these regulations, may apply to the Board of
Adjustment having jurisdiction of the area where such violation would occur for
a variance from these regulations.  Such variances shall be allowed where a
literal application or enforcement of these regulations would result in
practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, and the relief granted would not
be contrary to the public interest, but would do substantial justice and be in
accordance with the spirit of these regulations and of Chapter 329 of the Code
of Iowa; provided, however, any such variance may be allowed subject to any
reasonable conditions that the Board of Adjustment may deem necessary to
effectuate the purposes of Chapter 329 of the Code of Iowa, including but not
limited to the following:
   1.   The reservation of the right of the City of Cedar Rapids, and the
Eastern Iowa Airport Commission, at its own expense, to install, operate, and
maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to
operators of aircraft the presence of the airport hazard.
   2.   To require the person requesting the variance at his own expense, to
install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be
necessary to indicate to operators of aircraft the presence of the airport
hazard.
Any appeal from the decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be in accordance
with the provisions of Section 414.15 et. seq. of the Code of Iowa.
175.12   FINDING CONCERNING PUBLIC INTEREST.
The City Council of Cedar Rapids and City Council of Ely specifically find that
an airport hazard, as herein defined, within its territorial limits would
endanger the lives and property of users of the Eastern Iowa Airport and all
occupants of land, and other persons in the vicinity, and would also tend to
destroy or impair the utility of the airport and the public investment therein;
accordingly each municipality does hereby declare:
   1.   That the creation or establishment of an airport hazard, as herein
defined, within its territorial limits is a public nuisance and an injury to
the community served by the Eastern Iowa Airport.
   2.   That it is necessary in the interest of the public health, safety, and
general welfare that the creation or establishment of airport hazards, as
herein defined, be prevented.
   3.   That this should be accomplished to the extent legally possible by
proper exercise of the police power.
   4.   That each municipality expressly declares that it shall not become
liable for the expenditure of its public funds unless its governing body shall
approve such expenditure in advance.
175.13   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
The administration and enforcement of these zoning regulations shall be
performed by the Eastern Iowa Airport Commission acting through the Airport
Director, or through such other persons or representatives as the Eastern Iowa
Airport Commission may from time to time by resolution direct, but as provided
by Section 329.13 of the Code of Iowa such duties of enforcement and
administration may not be delegated to any person who is a member of any Board
of Adjustment.
175.14   EQUITABLE REMEDIES.
The City of Cedar Rapids and the Eastern Iowa Airport Commission may maintain
actions in equity to restrain and abate as nuisances the creation or
establishment of airport hazards pertaining to the Eastern Iowa Airport in
violation of these regulations for any area, whether within or without the
territorial limits of the City of Cedar Rapids, as authorized by Section 329.5
of the Code of Iowa.
175.15   CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
In the event of any conflict between these Airport Zoning Regulations and any
other regulations applicable to the same area, whether the conflict be with
respect to the height of structures or trees, the use of land, or any other
matter, the more stringent limitation or requirements shall govern and prevail.
175.16   PROHIBITED ACTS.
It is unlawful for any person to do any of the acts hereinafter stated unless
the Board of Adjustment shall have previously allowed a variance from the
provisions of these regulations.
   1.   No person shall erect or increase the height of any structure, or
permit the growth of any tree, to a height in excess of that provided by
Section
175.06 of these regulations for the zone or area where such act occurs.
   2.   No person shall hereafter place or cause to be placed, above ground,
transmission lines or poles or other structures supporting the same within 200
feet of the outer boundary of the airport as said boundary is shown on the
Airport Zoning Map.
   3.   No person shall otherwise use his or her property within a zone
established by these regulations in such a manner as to create an airport
hazard as defined herein.
   4.   The doing of any of the foregoing acts shall constitute a misdemeanor.
USE AND MAINTENANCE OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
The following information is provided to assist in the use and proper
maintenance of this Code of Ordinances.
DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES
   1.   OFFICIAL COPY.
The “OFFICIAL COPY” of the Code of Ordinances must be kept by the City Clerk
and should be identified as the “OFFICIAL COPY.” 
   2.   DISTRIBUTION.
Other copies of the Code of Ordinances should be made available to all persons
having a relatively frequent and continuing need to have access to ordinances
which are in effect in the City as well as reference centers such as the City
Library, County Law Library, and perhaps the schools.
   3.   SALE.
The sale or distribution of copies in a general fashion is not recommended as
experience indicates that indiscriminate distribution tends to result in
outdated codes being used or misused. 
   4.   RECORD OF DISTRIBUTION.
The City Clerk should be responsible for maintaining an accurate and current
record of persons having a copy of the Code of Ordinances.  Each official,
elected or appointed, should return to the City, upon leaving office, all
documents, records and other materials pertaining to the office, including this
Code of Ordinances.   
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
NUMBERING OF ORDINANCES
AMENDING THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
It is recommended that a simple numerical sequence be used in assigning
ordinance numbers to ordinances as they are passed.  For example, if the
ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances is No. 163, we would suggest that the
first ordinance passed changing, adding to, or deleting from the Code be
assigned the number 164, the next ordinance be assigned the number 165, and so
on.  We advise against using the Code of Ordinances numbering system for the
numbering of ordinances.
RETENTION OF AMENDING ORDINANCES
Please note that two books should be maintained:  (1) the Code of Ordinances.
and (2) an ordinance book.  We will assist in the maintenance of the Code of
Ordinances book, per the Supplement Agreement, by revising and returning
appropriate pages for the Code of Ordinances book as required to accommodate
ordinances amending the Code.  The City Clerk is responsible for maintaining
the ordinance book and must be sure that an original copy of each ordinance
adopted, bearing the signatures of the Mayor and Clerk, is inserted in the
ordinance book and preserved in a safe place.
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
A record of all supplements prepared for the Code of Ordinances is provided in
the front of the Code.  This record will indicate the number and date of the
ordinances adopting the original Code and of each subsequently adopted
ordinance which has been incorporated in the Code.  For each supplemented
ordinance, the Supplement Record will list the ordinance number, date, topic,
and chapter or section number of the Code affected by the amending ordinance. 
A periodic review of the Supplement Record and ordinances passed will assure
that all ordinances amending the Code have been incorporated therein.
DISTRIBUTION OF SUPPLEMENTS
Supplements containing revised pages for insertion in each Code will be sent to
the Clerk.  It is the responsibility of the Clerk to see that each person
having a Code of Ordinances receives each supplement so that each Code may be
properly updated to reflect action of the Council in amending the Code.
AMENDING THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
The Code of Ordinances contains most of the laws of the City as of the date of
its adoption and is continually subject to amendment to reflect changing
policies of the Council, mandates of the State, or decisions of the Courts. 
Amendments to the Code of Ordinances can only be accomplished by the adoption
of an ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
The following forms of ordinances are recommended for making amendments to the
Code of Ordinances:
ADDITION OF NEW PROVISIONS
New material may require the addition of a new SUBSECTION, SECTION or CHAPTER,
as follows:
ORDINANCE NO. ___
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF ELY, IOWA, BY
ADDING A NEW SECTION LIMITING PARKING TO THIRTY MINUTES ON A PORTION OF SOUTH
BOONE STREET
BE IT ENACTED by the City Council of the City of Ely, Iowa:
SECTION 1.  NEW SECTION.
The Code of Ordinances of the City of Ely, Iowa, is amended by adding a new
Section 69.16, entitled PARKING LIMITED TO THIRTY MINUTES, which is hereby
adopted to read as follows:
69.16  PARKING LIMITED TO THIRTY MINUTES.
It is unlawful to park any vehicle for a continuous period of more than thirty
(30) minutes between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on each day upon the
following designated streets:
   1.   South Boone Street, on the west side, from Forest Avenue to Mason
Drive.
SECTION 2.  REPEALER.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
ordinance are hereby repealed.
SECTION 3.  SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
If any section, provision, or part of this ordinance shall be adjudged invalid
or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of the
ordinance as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof not adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional.
SECTION 4.  WHEN EFFECTIVE.
This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its final passage, approval,
and publication as provided by law.
Passed by the Council the ___ day of _______________, 20___, and approved this
___ day of ________________, 20___.
________________________________
Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________
City Clerk
First Reading:  ____________________
Second Reading: __________________
Third Reading:  ___________________
I certify that the foregoing was published as Ordinance No. _____ on the ___
day of _________________, 20___. 
_________________________________
City Clerk
DELETION OF EXISTING PROVISIONS
Provisions may be removed from the Code of Ordinances by deleting SUBSECTIONS,
SECTIONS or CHAPTERS as follows:
ORDINANCE NO. ___
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF ELY, IOWA, BY
REPEALING SECTION 65.02, SUBSECTION 5, PERTAINING TO THE SPECIAL STOP REQUIRED
ON LAKE BOULEVARD
BE IT ENACTED by the City Council of the City of Ely, Iowa:
SECTION 1.  SUBSECTION REPEALED.
The Code of Ordinances of the City of Ely, Iowa, is hereby amended by repealing
Section 65.02, Subsection 5, which required vehicles traveling south on Lake
Boulevard to stop at Second Place North.
SECTION 2.  SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
If any section, provision, or part of this ordinance shall be adjudged invalid
or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of the
ordinance as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof not adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional.
SECTION 3.  WHEN EFFECTIVE.
This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its final passage, approval,
and publication as provided by law.
Passed by the Council the ___ day of ________________, 20___, and approved this
___ day of ________________, 20___. 
_________________________________
Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________
City Clerk
First Reading:  ____________________
Second Reading: __________________
Third Reading:  ___________________
I certify that the foregoing was published as Ordinance No.___ on the ___ day
of __________________, 20___. 
________________________________
City Clerk
MODIFICATION OR CHANGE OF EXISTING PROVISION
Existing provisions may be added to, partially deleted, or changed as follows:
ORDINANCE NO. ___
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF ELY, IOWA, BY
AMENDING PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
BE IT ENACTED by the City Council of the City of Ely, Iowa:
SECTION 1.  SECTION MODIFIED.
Section 99.02 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Ely, Iowa, is repealed
and the following adopted in lieu thereof:
99.02  RATE.
Each customer shall pay sewer service charges in the amount of 100 percent of
the bill for water and water service attributable to the customer for the
property served, but in no event less than $10.00 per month.
SECTION 2.  SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
If any section, provision, or part of this ordinance shall be adjudged invalid
or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of the
ordinance as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof not adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional.
SECTION 3.  WHEN EFFECTIVE.
This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its final passage, approval,
and publication as provided by law.
Passed by the Council the ___ day of _______________, 20___, and approved this
___ day of __________________, 20___.
_________________________________
Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________
City Clerk
First Reading:  ____________________
Second Reading: __________________
Third Reading:  ___________________
I certify that the foregoing was published as Ordinance No. _____ on the ___
day of _________________, 20___. 
_________________________________
City Clerk
ORDINANCES NOT CONTAINED IN THE
CODE OF ORDINANCES
There are certain types of ordinances which the City will be adopting which do
not have to be incorporated in the Code of Ordinances.  These include
ordinances:  (1) establishing grades of streets or sidewalks; (2) vacating
streets or alleys; (3) authorizing the issuance of bonds; and (4) amending the
zoning map.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.8)
ORDINANCE NO. ___
AN ORDINANCE VACATING THE ALLEY LYING IN BLOCK TWO RAILROAD ADDITION TO ELY,
IOWA
Be It Enacted by the City Council of the City of Ely, Iowa:
SECTION 1.  The alley lying in Block Two, Railroad Addition to Ely, Iowa, is
hereby vacated and closed from public use.
SECTION 2.  The Council may by resolution convey the alley described above to
abutting property owners in a manner directed by the City Council.
SECTION 3.  All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the
provisions of this ordinance are hereby repealed.
SECTION 4.  If any section, provision, or part of this ordinance shall be
adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the
validity of the ordinance as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional. 
SECTION 5.  This ordinance shall be in effect from and after its final passage,
approval, and publication as provided by law. 
Passed by the Council the ___ day of __________________, 20___, and approved
this ___ day of _________________, 20___. 
_________________________________
Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________
City Clerk
First Reading:  ____________________
Second Reading: __________________
Third Reading:  ___________________
I certify that the foregoing was published as Ordinance No. _____ on the ___
day of _________________, 20___. 
_________________________________
City Clerk
These ordinances should be numbered in the same numerical sequence as any other
amending ordinance and placed in their proper sequence in the ordinance book.
SUGGESTED FORMS
FIRST NOTICE – DANGEROUS BUILDING
TO:   (Name and address of owner, agent, or occupant of the property on which
nuisance is located or the person causing or maintaining the nuisance).
You are hereby notified to abate the nuisance existing at (name location of
nuisance) within ____ days from service of this notice or file written request
for a Council hearing with the undersigned officer within said time limit.
The nuisance consists of (describe the nuisance and cite the law or ordinance)
and shall be abated by (state action necessary to abate the particular
nuisance). 
In the event you fail to abate or cause to be abated the above nuisance, as
directed, or file written request for hearing within the time prescribed
herein, the City will take such steps as are necessary to abate or cause to be
abated the nuisance and the cost will be assessed against you as provided by
law.
Date of Notice:  ________________________________
City of Ely, Iowa
By: ___________________________________________
   (enforcement officer)
NOTICE OF HEARING ON DANGEROUS BUILDING
TO:   (Name and address of the owner, agent, or occupant of the property on
which nuisance is located or the person causing or maintaining the nuisance). 
 
You are hereby notified that the City Council of Ely, Iowa, will meet on the
___ day of ___________________, 20___, at _____ p.m., in the Council Chambers
of the City Hall, at (address of City Hall) for the purpose of considering
whether or not the alleged nuisance consisting of (describe the nuisance) on
your property, locally known as ________________________, constitutes a
nuisance pursuant to Chapter            of the Code of Ordinances of Ely, Iowa,
and should be abated by (state action necessary to abate the particular
nuisance).
You are further notified that at such time and place you may appear and show
cause why the said alleged nuisance should not be abated. 
You are further notified to govern yourselves accordingly. 
Date of Notice:  ________________________
City of Ely, Iowa
By:  __________________________________
   (enforcement officer)
RESOLUTION AND ORDER
REGARDING DANGEROUS BUILDING
BE IT RESOLVED, by the City Council of the City of Ely, Iowa:
WHEREAS, notice has heretofore been served on the ___ day of
______________________, 20___, on (property owner’s name), through (agent’s
name or “none”), agent, to abate the nuisance existing at (legal description
and address) within ___ days from service of said notice upon the said (name of
owner or agent). and 
(EITHER)
WHEREAS, a hearing was requested by the said (name of property owner or agent)
and the same was held at this meeting and evidence produced and considered by
the City Council. 
(OR, ALTERNATE TO PRECEDING PARAGRAPH)
WHEREAS, the said owner (agent) named above has failed to abate or cause to be
abated the above nuisance as directed within the time set, and after evidence
was duly produced and considered at this meeting, and said owner has failed to
file a written request for hearing, as provided, after being properly served by
a notice to abate. 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the owner of said property, or said owner’s
agent (name of owner or agent) is hereby directed and ordered to abate the
nuisance consisting of (describe the nuisance) by (state action necessary to
abate) within ___ days after the service of this Order upon said owner or
agent. and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the enforcement officer be and is hereby directed
to serve a copy of this Order upon the said property owner or agent named
above. and 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that in the event the owner, or agent (name the owner or
agent) fails to abate the said nuisance within the time prescribed above, then
and in that event the City will abate the said nuisance and the cost will be
assessed against the property and/or owner (owner’s name) at (address), as the
law shall provide.
Moved by _____________________ to adopt. 
Adopted this ____ day of ___________________, 20___.
_________________________________
Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________
City Clerk
Note:  It is suggested by the blank space in the resolution that additional
time be allowed the owner to abate the nuisance after the passage of the
resolution before any action is taken on the part of the City to abate the
same.  In some instances, for the sake of public safety, the time element could
be stricken from the resolution and immediate action be taken to abate the
nuisance after the order is given. 
NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE
TO:   (Name and address of owner, agent, or occupant of the property on which
the nuisance is located or the person causing or maintaining the nuisance).
You are hereby notified to abate the nuisance existing at (name location of
nuisance) or file written request for a hearing with the undersigned officer
within (hours or days) from service of this notice.
The nuisance consists of: (describe the nuisance) and shall be abated by: 
(state action necessary to abate the particular nuisance).
In the event you fail to abate or cause to be abated the above nuisance as
directed, the City will take such steps as are necessary to abate or cause to
be abated the nuisance and the costs will be assessed against you as provided
by law. 
Date of Notice:  _________________________
City of Ely, Iowa
By:  ___________________________________
   (designate officer initiating notice)
NOTICE
REQUIRED SEWER CONNECTION
TO:   _____________________________________
      (Name)
   _____________________________________
      (Street Address)
   ________________________________, Iowa
You are hereby notified that connection to the public sanitary sewer system is
required at the following described property within ______ (____) days from
service of this notice or that you must file written request for a hearing
before the Council with the undersigned office within said time limit.
Description of Property
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
The nearest public sewer line within _________________ (____) feet of the above
described property is located
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
In the event you fail to make connection as directed, or file written request
for hearing within the time prescribed herein, the connection shall be made by
the City and the costs thereof assessed against you as by law provided. 
Date of Notice:  ________________________
City of Ely, Iowa
By:  ___________________________________,  _______________________________
   (Name)   (Title)   
NOTICE OF HEARING
REQUIRED SEWER CONNECTION
TO:   _________________________________
      (Name)
   _________________________________
      (Street Address)
   ____________________________, Iowa
You are hereby notified that the City Council of Ely, Iowa, will meet on the
___ day of _________________, 20___, at ______ __m. in the Council Chambers of
the City Hall for the purpose of considering whether or not connection to the
public sanitary sewer system shall be required at the following described
property: 
Description of Property
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
You are further notified that at such time and place you may appear and show
cause why said connection should not be required. 
You are further notified to govern yourselves accordingly. 
Date of Notice: _________________________
City of Ely, Iowa 
By:  _________________________________,   _______________________________
   (Name)      (Title) 
RESOLUTION AND ORDER
REQUIRED SEWER CONNECTION
BE IT RESOLVED, by the City Council of the City of Ely, Iowa:
WHEREAS, notice has heretofore been served on the ____ day of __________,
20___, on
___________________________________________________________________________,
            (Name of Property Owner)
through ______________________________________________________________, Agent,
      (Agent’s Name or “None”)
to make connection of the property described as
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
to the public sanitary sewer
located_______________________________________________
within ______ (_____) days from service of notice upon said owner or agent. and
(EITHER)
WHEREAS, a hearing was requested by the said owner or agent and the same was
held at this meeting and evidence produced and considered by the City Council.
(OR AS ALTERNATE TO THE PRECEDING PARAGRAPH)
WHEREAS, the said owner or agent named above has failed to make such required
connection within the time set, and after evidence was duly produced and
considered at this meeting, and said owner or agent has failed to file a
written request for hearing after being properly served by a notice to make
such connection or request a hearing thereon.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the owner of said property, or said owner’s
agent, _______________________________________________________
         (Name of Owner or Agent) 
is hereby directed and ordered to make such required connection within ______
days after the service of this ORDER upon said owner or agent. and 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that in the event the owner, or agent,
___________________________________________________________________________,
   (Name of Owner or Agent) 
fails to make such connection within the time prescribed above, then and in
that event the City will make such connection and the cost thereof will be
assessed against the property and/or owner
___________________________________________________________________________
   (Owner’s Name) 
___________________________________________________________, as provided by
law. 
   (Address) 
Moved by ______________________ to adopt.   
Seconded by ____________________________.   
AYES: _________________, ________________, _______________, 
    _________________, ________________, _______________. 
NAYS: _________________, ________________, _______________, 
    _________________, ________________, _______________. 
Resolution approved this ___ day of ____________________, 20___.     
_________________________________
Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________
City Clerk
   1.   
 
