CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF GARNAVILLO, IOWA
Adopted December 13, 2023, by Ordinance No. 04-2023
 
Published by:
Simmering-Cory | Iowa Codification
PO Box 244
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
Tel: (641) 355-4072
Internet: www.sc-ic.com
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No.  Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date Subject
SUPPLEMENT ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No.  Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date    Subject
Nov-24     Ch. 53                  01-2024  6-12-24 International Property
                                                    Maintenance Code
           22.01                   02-2024  10-9-24 Planning and Zonning
                                                    Commission
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Garnavillo, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the Code
of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council
or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases used
herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in
another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
   1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   2.   “City” means the city of Garnavillo, Iowa.
   3.   “Clerk” means the City Administrator/Clerk of Garnavillo, Iowa.
   4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
   5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Garnavillo, Iowa.
   6.   “Council” means the city council of Garnavillo, Iowa.
   7.   “County” means Clayton County, Iowa.
   8.   “IAC” means the Iowa Administrative Code.
   9.   “May” confers a power.
   10.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution, or motion.
   11.   “Must” states a requirement.
   12.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   13.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Garnavillo, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
   14.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
   15.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
   16.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
   17.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge
of the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   18.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
   19.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
   20.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if not
inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City and of its residents, and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its
residents, and each and every provision of this Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly, or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees, or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents, and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits, or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury, or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the
City, whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council, with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate, or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
All ordinances that amend, repeal, or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection, or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section, and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references,
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in this Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement, or clarify the contents
of a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code of
Ordinances in any manner that will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this Code of Ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
this Code of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof
not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure, or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant, or any other person having
charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure,
building, or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search
warrant, to permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Council
or any commission, board, or officer or employee of the City and does not
specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny, or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for any
particular provision, section, or chapter, any person failing to perform a
duty, or obtain a license required by, or violating any provision of this Code
of Ordinances, or any rule or regulation adopted herein by reference shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a fine and a term of imprisonment provided for a
misdemeanor violation under Section 903.1, Subsection 1, Paragraph “a” of the
Code of Iowa. † 1
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Garnavillo, Iowa.† 2
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 73-2 adopting a charter for the City was passed and
2 approved by the Council on December 17, 1973, and was published on December 26,
  1973, in the Guttenberg Press. Pursuant to an election held September 27, 1977, the
  terms of office of the Mayor and Council members were extended to four years.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file
with the official records of the City Administrator/Clerk and the Secretary of
State, and shall keep copies of the charter available at the City
Administrator/Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1[3])
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.05 Alternative Relief
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.06 Alternative Penalties
3.03 Penalties               3.07 Administrative Penalty - Notice of Violation
3.04 Civil Citations          
 
3.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted
by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein.† 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
3 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
  Ordinances, see Section 1.14.
3.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
A municipal infraction that is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa
or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the Department of
Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental violation.
However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable until the City
has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding the violation or
to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
   2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
   3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying, or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03   PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[1])
   1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
      A.   First offense – not to exceed $750.00.
      B.   Each repeat offense – not to exceed $1,000.00.
      Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a
repeat offense.
   2.   Special Civil Penalties.
      A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8, by an
industrial user is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each
day a violation exists or continues.
      B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
         (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
         (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the
time that the violation begins.
         (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may issue
a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy of the
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
City Administrator/Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as
notification that a civil offense has been committed and shall contain the
following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[4])
   1.   The name and address of the defendant.
   2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
   3.   The location and time of the infraction.
   4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
   5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
   6.   The time and place of court appearance.
   7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
   8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation, or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
3.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[9])
3.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal citation
for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal penalties
are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit the
authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances by
criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[12])
3.07   ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY - NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
Municipal infractions may be initially brought upon simple notice of violation
and if the person charged admits the violation, upon payment of the penalty to
the City and the performance of any other act required by law to be performed,
such person shall not be further prosecuted or assessed any costs or other
expenses for such violation, and the City shall retain all penalties thus
collected. Where a municipal infraction is not admitted upon simple notice by
the person charged or where the person charged fails to perform any other act
required to be performed, or both, a civil citation seeking a penalty for a
municipal infraction, with or without additional relief, may be initially filed
in the court. This section does not impose a duty to initially charge all
municipal infractions upon simple notice of violation. All administrative
penalties fees shall be set by Council resolution.
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Powers and Duties     5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings               
 
5.01   OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after such officer is certified as
elected but not later than noon of the first day that is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday in January of the first year of the term for which the officer
was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
   2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Garnavillo as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
   3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
      A.   Mayor
      B.   City Administrator/Clerk
      C.   Members of all boards, commissions, or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
   1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, City
Administrator/Clerk, Treasurer, and such other officers and employees as may be
necessary and advisable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
   2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
   3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be
filed with the City Administrator/Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])
4.   Record. The City Administrator/Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the
“Record of Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all
City officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[1a] and [3])
5.03   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open to
examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records that are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents, and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06   MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
   1.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date, and place of each meeting and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
   2.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   3.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time
and place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The
minutes shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
   4.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote
of either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting
and in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
   5.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices
at any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
   6.   Electronic Meetings. A meeting may be conducted by electronic means
only in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or
impractical and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
   1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
   2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
   3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
   4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in Subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
   5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
   6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has
an interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee
was elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
   7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
   8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
   9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
   10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this
section, for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or
employee, if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a
cumulative total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
   11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a
utility and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential
City utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
   12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser, or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the City Administrator/Clerk so that it shall be properly
recorded and considered. A person who resigns from an elective office is not
eligible for appointment to the same office during the time for which the
person was elected if, during that time, the compensation of the office has
been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the City Administrator/Clerk, and a
copy shall be sent by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request
filed with the City Administrator/Clerk within 30 days after the date of
mailing the copy, shall be granted a public hearing before the Council on all
issues connected with the removal. The hearing shall be held within 30 days
after the date the request is filed, unless the person removed requests a later
date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10   VACANCIES.
A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled in
accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa.
5.11   GIFTS.
Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee, or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing; Presumption; Withdrawals;
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 10 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy. The
petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5, and 45.6)
6.05   FILING; PRESUMPTION; WITHDRAWALS; OBJECTIONS.
The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of validity
thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the effect of
such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of such
petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by the
appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on the
ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
The City Administrator/Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City
and is responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following shall
apply:
   1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any
City officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If
any said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance, or Council directive.
   2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, and 12C.1)
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
   1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the
proper fund as required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
   2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance, or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
   3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(545 IAC 2.5[2])
   4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[3])
   5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited
by State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(545 IAC 2.5[4])
   6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits, liabilities, and the related
deferred inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of
resources, in excess of:
      A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
      B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(545 IAC 2.5[5])
   7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of
each month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
   1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation
of the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption
by the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
   2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other
administrative agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and
administer budgets must submit their budget proposals to the finance officer
for inclusion in the proposed City budget at such time and in such form as
required by the Council.
   3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
   4.   Annual Statement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 24.2A[2])
      A.   On or before March 15 of each year, the City shall file, with the
Department of Management, a report containing all necessary information for the
Department of Management to compile and calculate amounts required to be
included in the statement mailed under Paragraph B.
      B.   Not later than March 20, the County Auditor, using information
compiled and calculated by the Department of Management shall send to each
property owner or taxpayer within the County, by regular mail, an individual
statement containing all of the required information as provided under Section
24.2(2)(B)(1-9) of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the report
required under Paragraph A, the statements to be mailed under Paragraph B, and
the public hearing notice required under Paragraph D.
      D.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
City’s proposed property tax amount for the budget year and the City’s
information included in the statements under Paragraph B. At the hearing, the
Council shall receive oral or written testimony from any resident or property
owner of the City. This public hearing shall be separate from any other meeting
of the Council, including any other meeting or public hearing relating to the
City’s budget, and other business of the City that is not related to the
proposed property tax amounts and the information in the statements shall not
be conducted at the public hearing. After all testimony has been received and
considered, the governing body may decrease, but not increase, the proposed
property tax amount to be included in the City’s budget.
         (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published not less than 10
nor more than 20 days prior to the hearing, in a newspaper published at least
once weekly and having general circulation in the City. However, if the City
has a population of 200 or less, publication may be made by posting in three
public places in the City.
         (2)   Notice of the hearing shall also be posted and clearly
identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on the date
of the newspaper publication and shall be maintained on the City’s internet
site with all such prior year notices and copies of the statements mailed under
this section.
         (3)   Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on
one or more social media applications, the public hearing notice or an
electronic link to the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such
account on the same day as the publication of the notice.
   5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may
make any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
   6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until the requirements, of
Subsection 4 of this section, are completed, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before April 30 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice.  Proof of publication of the notice under
this subsection must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
   7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that
the budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days
before the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number
of copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
   8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt,
by resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing, unless an additional tax levy is approved at a City election.
Two copies each of the detailed budget as adopted and of the tax certificate
must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
   1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(545 IAC 2.2)
   2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted, and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(545 IAC 2.3)
   3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(545 IAC 2.4)
   4.   Administrative Transfers. The finance officer shall have the authority
to adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(545 IAC 2.4)
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
   1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained
books of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
   2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general
ledger controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
   3.   Checks. Checks shall be prenumbered and signed by the City
Administrator/Clerk and Mayor following Council approval, except as provided by
Subsection 5 hereof.
   4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
   5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize
the City Administrator/Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts
due, which if not paid promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for
late payment or additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be
reported to the Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as
other claims at the next meeting following such payment. The resolution
authorizing immediate payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized
and may include (but is not limited to) payment of utility bills, contractual
obligations, payroll, and bond principal and interest.
   6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
   1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program, and
activity for the preceding month.
   2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. The Annual Financial Report shall be
prepared on forms and pursuant to instructions prescribed by the Auditor of
State. Beginning with the Annual Financial Report published by December 1,
2025, each report shall include a list of bonds, notes, or other obligations
issued by the City during the most recently completed fiscal year, and the
applicable lists for other fiscal years beginning on or after July 1, 2024, for
which obligations remain unpaid, payable from any source, including the amount
of the issuance, the project or purpose of the issuance, whether the issuance
was approved at election, eligible to be subject to a petition for an election,
or was exempt from approval at election as the result of statutory exclusions
based on population of the City or amount of the issuance, and identification
of issuances from the fiscal year or prior fiscal years related to the same
project or purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
CHAPTER 10
URBAN RENEWAL
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED          NAME OF AREA
3-90          October 8, 1990  Garnavillo Urban Renewal Area
6-94          August 1, 1994   1994 Addition to the Garnavillo Urban Renewal
                               Area
06-2013       October 12, 2013 2013 Addition to the Garnavillo Urban Renewal
                               Area
                              
                              
 
CHAPTER 11
URBAN REVITALIZATION
11.01   DESIGNATION OF REVITALIZATION AREA.
In accordance with Chapter 404 of the Code of Iowa, the following described
area of the City is hereby designated as an Urban Revitalization Area.
All real property contained within the incorporated limits of the City of
Garnavillo, Clayton County, State of Iowa, as of February 1, 2015.
The Urban Revitalization Plan for the City is on file in the office of the
Clerk.
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
   1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City,
give direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments,
and have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
   3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
   4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto, or take no action on an ordinance, amendment,
or resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance,
amendment, or resolution within 14 days after passage. The Mayor shall explain
the reasons for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the
veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6[2])
   5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
   6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered
into in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the
City where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law,
ordinance, or Council direction.
   7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf
of the City.
   8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City
such specialized and professional services not already available to the City.
In executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with
this Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
   9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits that have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
   10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
   11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any
absentee officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
   1.   Mayor Pro Tem
   2.   Police Chief
   3.   Library Board of Trustees
   4.   Zoning Board of Adjustment
15.04   COMPENSATION.
The salary payable to the Mayor of the City shall be the sum of $3,000.00 per
annum, payable in two equal installments.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.05   VOTING.
The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the Mayor
Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ, or discharge from employment
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ, or
discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 376.2)
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
   1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   2.   Wards. By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based
upon population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards, or create new
wards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])
   3.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all
funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and claims, and order
payment thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street
improvements, sidewalks, sewers, and other work, improvement, or repairs that
may be specially assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16, and 384.38[1])
   4.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges, or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
   5.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 26)
   6.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number,
duties, term of office, and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise
provided for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council
shall prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other
elected City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not
become effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the
Council shall not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any
elected officer during the months of November and December in the year of a
regular City election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes
effective for all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council
members elected at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment, or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
   1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment, or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
   2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become
effective in one of the following ways:
      A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
      B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
      C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
      D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment, or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
      E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment, or
resolution, a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage,
and an ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of
the ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of
passage, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
   1.   Regular Meetings. The Council shall meet in regular session on such
days and times as the Council shall fix by resolution. Said meetings may by
motion be rescheduled to different dates when the Council determines it
necessary or convenient.
   2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor
or upon the written request of a majority of the members of the Council
submitted to the City Administrator/Clerk. Notice of a special meeting shall
specify the date, time, place, and subject of the meeting and such notice shall
be given personally or left at the usual place of residence of each member of
the Council. A record of the service of notice shall be maintained by the City
Administrator/Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
   4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and
maintain records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
   5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned, or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation, and term of office:
   1.   City Administrator/Clerk
   2.   City Attorney
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission
   4.   Zoning Administrator
17.06   COMPENSATION.
The salary of each Council member is $40.00 for each meeting of the Council
attended, payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY ADMINISTRATOR/CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification                 
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
At its first meeting in January following the regular City election, the
Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Administrator/Clerk to serve for
a term of two years. The City Administrator/Clerk shall receive such
compensation as established by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
The City Administrator/Clerk (or, in the City Administrator/Clerk’s absence or
inability to act, the Deputy Clerk) has the powers and duties as provided in
this chapter, this Code of Ordinances, and the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting, the City Administrator/
Clerk shall cause the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published. Such
publication shall include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all
receipts and shall show the gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by
the Council and record a statement with the measure, where applicable,
indicating whether the Mayor signed, vetoed, or took no action on the measure,
and whether the measure was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 and 2])
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances,
enactments, proceedings, and official notices requiring publication as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
   1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four or more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing, or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
   2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of
Ordinances or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and
having general circulation in the City, except that ordinances and amendments
may be published by posting in the following places:
City Clerk’s Office
Post Office
Garnavillo Savings Bank
The City Administrator/Clerk is hereby directed to post promptly such
ordinances and amendments, and to leave them so posted for not less than 10
days after the first date of posting. Unauthorized removal of the posted
ordinance or amendment prior to the completion of the 10 days shall not affect
the validity of said ordinance or amendment. The City Administrator/Clerk shall
note the first date of such posting on the official copy of the ordinance and
in the official ordinance book immediately following the ordinance.
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions
with the City Administrator/Clerk’s signature, certifying the time and manner
of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning
district, building lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district,
lines, or limits to the recorder of the County containing the affected parts of
the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the
following manner:
   1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances
and codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
   2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents (or accurate
reproductions) for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions)
relating to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption, or replacement of
public bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the
final maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records, and documents (or accurate reproductions) relating to
real property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 and 5])
   4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of
any record, paper, or public document under the City Administrator/Clerk’s
control when it may be necessary to such officer in the discharge of such
officer’s duty; furnish a copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of
the fee set by Council resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other
authorized officer, affix the seal of the City to those public documents or
instruments that by this Code of Ordinances are required to be attested by the
affixing of the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 and 5] and 380.7[5])
   5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and
petitions directed to the Council or to the City generally. The City
Administrator/Clerk shall endorse thereon the action of the Council taken upon
matters considered in such communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council
meetings and, at the direction of the Council, the City Administrator/Clerk
shall attend meetings of committees, boards, and commissions. The City
Administrator/Clerk shall record and preserve a correct record of the
proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when
authorized by this Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and
permits issued which shall show date of issuance, license or permit number,
official receipt number, name of person to whom issued, term of license or
permit, and purpose for which issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or
Council to offices in the City government of their positions and the time at
which they shall assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   ELECTIONS.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall perform the duties relating to elections in
accordance with Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa.
18.13   CITY SEAL.
The City seal is in the custody of the City Administrator/Clerk and shall be
attached by the City Administrator/Clerk to all transcripts, orders, and
certificates that it may be necessary or proper to authenticate. The City seal
is circular in form, in the center of which are the words “CLAYTON COUNTY,
IOWA” and around the margin of which are the words “SEAL OF THE TOWN OF
GARNAVILLO, INCORPORATED NOV. 21, 1907.”
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation 19.04 Boards and Commissions
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
The City Administrator/Clerk is the Treasurer and performs all functions
required of the position of Treasurer.
19.02   COMPENSATION.
The City Administrator/Clerk receives no additional compensation for performing
the duties of the Treasurer.
19.03   DUTIES OF TREASURER.
The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of
the City in the manner provided by law and Council direction.
   2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
   3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received.
   4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements,
money, or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
   5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by
the Treasurer from special assessments.
   6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
   7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s
books and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of
each fund and amounts received and disbursed.
   8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
   9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
19.04   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
The City Treasurer is the Treasurer of the Library Board of Trustees and pays
out all money under control of such board on orders signed by the chair and
secretary of such board, but receives no additional compensation for such
services.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
 
20.01 Appointment and Compensation 20.05 Review and Comment
20.02 Attorney for City            20.06 Provide Legal Opinion
20.03 Power of Attorney            20.07 Attendance at Council Meetings
20.04 Ordinance Preparation        20.08 Prepare Documents
 
20.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Attorney to serve for a term
of one year. The City Attorney shall receive such compensation as established
by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.02   ATTORNEY FOR CITY.
The City Attorney shall act as attorney for the City in all matters affecting
the City’s interest and appear on behalf of the City before any court,
tribunal, commission, or board. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend all
actions and proceedings when so requested by the Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.03   POWER OF ATTORNEY.
The City Attorney shall sign the name of the City to all appeal bonds and to
all other bonds or papers of any kind that may be essential to the prosecution
of any cause in court, and when so signed the City shall be bound upon the
same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.04   ORDINANCE PREPARATION.
The City Attorney shall prepare those ordinances that the Council may desire
and direct to be prepared and report to the Council upon all such ordinances
before their final passage by the Council and publication.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.05   REVIEW AND COMMENT.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, make a report to the Council giving an
opinion on all contracts, documents, resolutions, or ordinances submitted to or
coming under the City Attorney’s notice.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.06   PROVIDE LEGAL OPINION.
The City Attorney shall give advice or a written legal opinion on City
contracts and all questions of law relating to City matters submitted by the
Mayor, Council, City Administrator/Clerk, head of the Public Works Department,
or Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.07   ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
The City Attorney shall attend meetings of the Council at the request of the
Mayor or Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
20.08   PREPARE DOCUMENTS.
The City Attorney shall, upon request, formulate drafts for contracts, forms,
and other writings that may be required for the use of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
CHAPTER 22
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
 
22.01 Planning and Zoning Commission   22.07 Nonresident Use
22.02 Library Trustees                 22.08 Expenditures
22.03 Qualifications of Trustees       22.09 Annual Report
22.04 Organization of the Board        22.10 Injury to Books or Property
22.05 Powers and Duties                22.11 Theft
22.06 Contracting with Other Libraries 22.12 Notice Posted
 
22.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of three members, appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.   
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 and 392.1)
(Secion 22.01 – Ord. 02-2024 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
22.02   LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of three resident members and two nonresident members. All resident
members are to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council. The
nonresident members are to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
County Board of Supervisors.
22.03   QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
All resident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents of
the City. The nonresident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and
residents of the unincorporated County. Members shall be over the age of 18
years.
22.04   ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
   1.   Term of Office. All appointments to the Board shall be for six years,
except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July first. Appointments
shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or as near as
possible, to stagger the terms.
   2.   Vacancies. The position of any resident Trustee shall be vacated if
such member moves permanently from the City. The position of a nonresident
Trustee shall be vacated if such member moves permanently from the County or
into the City. The position of any Trustee shall be deemed vacated if such
member is absent from six consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in
the case of sickness or temporary absence from the City or County. Vacancies in
the Board shall be filled in the same manner as an original appointment except
that the new Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the
appointment is made.
   3.   Compensation. Trustees shall receive no compensation for their
services.
22.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Officers. To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary,
and such other officers as it deems necessary. The City Treasurer shall serve
as Board Treasurer, but shall not be a member of the Board.
   2.   Physical Plant. To have charge, control, and supervision of the
Library, its appurtenances, fixtures, and rooms containing the same.
   3.   Charge of Affairs. To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
   4.   Hiring of Personnel. To employ a librarian, and authorize the librarian
to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary for the proper
management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided, however, prior
to such employment, the compensation of the librarian, assistants, and
employees shall have been fixed and approved by a majority of the members of
the Board voting in favor thereof.
   5.   Removal of Personnel. To remove the librarian, by a two-thirds vote of
the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence, or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
   6.   Purchases. To select, or authorize the librarian to select, and make
purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps, journals,
other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery, and supplies for the
Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
   7.   Use by Nonresidents. To authorize the use of the Library by
nonresidents and to fix charges therefor unless a contract for free service
exists.
   8.   Rules and Regulations. To make and adopt, amend, modify, or repeal
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the
law, for the care, use, government, and management of the Library and the
business of the Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
   9.   Expenditures. To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds
allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys available by
gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of all other
moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals collected under the
rules of the Board.
   10.   Gifts. To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed
property, and devises, and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title
to said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills of sale
for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them
from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.
   11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts. To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises, and bequests accepted
by the City by action against the Council.
   12.   Record of Proceedings. To keep a record of its proceedings.
   13.   County Historical Association. To have authority to make agreements
with the local County historical association where such exists, and to set
apart the necessary room and to care for such articles as may come into the
possession of the association. The Trustees are further authorized to purchase
necessary receptacles and materials for the preservation and protection of such
articles as are in their judgment of a historical and educational nature and
pay for the same out of funds allocated for Library purposes.
22.06   CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Contracting. The Board may contract with any other boards of trustees
of free public libraries, with any other city, school corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 and Ch. 28E)
   2.   Termination. Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election. The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law which is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract.
22.07   NONRESIDENT USE.
The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of the
City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
   1.   Lending. By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee.
   2.   Depository. By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents.
   3.   Bookmobiles. By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that
books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
 
   4.   Branch Library. By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents.
22.08   EXPENDITURES.
All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of the
Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library. Expenditures shall be
paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and Secretary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 and 392.5)
22.09   ANNUAL REPORT.
The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of the
fiscal year. This report shall contain statements as to the condition of the
Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount of fines
collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of the Library
during the year, together with such further information as may be required by
the Council.
22.10   INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously, or wantonly to tear,
deface, mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper,
periodical, book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture, or other property belonging to
the Library or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
22.11   THEFT.
No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with the
intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
22.12   NOTICE POSTED.
There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices informing
the public of the following:
   1.   Failure to Return. Failure to return Library materials for two months
or more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material or equipment is overdue and
criminal actions will be taken, has been made to reclaim the materials or
equipment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
   2.   Detention and Search. Persons concealing Library materials may be
detained and searched pursuant to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies                       
 
23.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of five members, appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 and 392.1)
23.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be five years. The
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03   VACANCIES.
If any vacancy exists on the Commission, caused by resignation or otherwise, a
successor for the remainder of the term shall be appointed in the same manner
as the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04   COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
   1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its
first regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as
Vice Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during
the Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and
duties and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other
related matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes, or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
   4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon action for any such improvement if
the Commission, after 30 days’ written notice requesting such recommendations,
has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of
subdivisions or re-subdivisions of land in the City or adjacent thereto, laid
out in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to
the Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete, and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it and to use and expend all gifts, donations, or payments that
are received by the City for City planning and zoning purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
   8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the
Mayor and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts and
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 30
POLICE DEPARTMENT
 
30.01 Department Established       30.07 Powers and Duties of Police Chief
30.02 Organization                 30.08 Departmental Rules
30.03 Peace Officer Qualifications 30.09 Summoning Aid
30.04 Required Training            30.10 Taking Weapons
30.05 Compensation                 30.11 Contract Law Enforcement
30.06 Police Chief Appointed        
 
30.01   DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
The Police Department of the City is established to provide for the
preservation of peace and enforcement of law and ordinances within the
corporate limits of the City.
30.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Police Chief and such other law enforcement
officers and personnel, whether full or part time, as may be authorized by the
Council.
30.03   PEACE OFFICER QUALIFICATIONS.
In no case shall any person be selected or appointed as a law enforcement
officer unless such person meets the minimum qualification standards
established by the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11)
30.04   REQUIRED TRAINING.
All peace officers shall have received the minimum training required by law at
an approved law enforcement training school within one year of employment.
Peace officers shall also meet the minimum in-service training as required by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 80B.11[2])
(501 IAC 3 and 8)
30.05   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department are designated by rank and receive such compensation
as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
30.06   POLICE CHIEF APPOINTED.
The Mayor shall appoint and dismiss the Police Chief, subject to the consent of
a majority of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
30.07   POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
The Police Chief has the following powers and duties subject to the approval of
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   General. Perform all duties required of the Police Chief by law or
ordinance.
   2.   Enforce Laws. Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations and bring
all persons committing any offense before the proper court.
   3.   Writs. Execute and return all writs and other processes directed to the
Police Chief.
   4.   Accident Reports. Report all motor vehicle accidents investigated to
the State Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.266)
   5.   Prisoners. Be responsible for the custody of prisoners, including
conveyance to detention facilities as may be required.
   6.   Assist Officials. When requested, provide aid to other City officers,
boards, and commissions in the execution of their official duties.
   7.   Investigations. Provide for such investigation as may be necessary for
the prosecution of any person alleged to have violated any law or ordinance.
   8.   Record of Arrests. Keep a record of all arrests made in the City by
showing whether said arrests were made under provisions of State law or City
ordinance, the offense charged, who made the arrest, and the disposition of the
charge.
   9.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report
as well as such other reports as may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
   10.   Command. Be in command of all officers appointed for police work and
be responsible for the care, maintenance, and use of all vehicles, equipment,
and materials of the department.
30.08   DEPARTMENTAL RULES.
The Police Chief shall establish such rules, not in conflict with the Code of
Ordinances, and subject to the approval of the Council, as may be necessary for
the operation of the department.
30.09   SUMMONING AID.
Any peace officer making a legal arrest may orally summon as many persons as
the officer reasonably finds necessary to aid the officer in making the arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.17)
30.10   TAKING WEAPONS.
Any person who makes an arrest may take from the person arrested all items that
are capable of causing bodily harm which the arrested person may have within
such person’s control, to be disposed of according to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 804.18)
30.11   CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
In lieu of the appointment of a Police Chief by the Mayor as provided by
Section 30.06, the Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other
qualified lawful entity to provide law enforcement services within the City and
in such event the Sheriff or such other entity shall have and exercise the
powers and duties of the Police Chief as provided herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 28E.30)
CHAPTER 31
RESERVE PEACE OFFICERS
 
31.01 Establishment of Force     31.07 No Reduction of Regular Force
31.02 Training                   31.08 Compensation
31.03 Status of Reserve Officers 31.09 Benefits When Injured
31.04 Carrying Weapons           31.10 Liability and False Arrest Insurance
31.05 Supplementary Capacity     31.11 No Participation in Pension Fund or
                                 Retirement System
31.06 Supervision of Officers     
 
31.01   ESTABLISHMENT OF FORCE.
A force of reserve peace officers is hereby established. A reserve peace
officer is a volunteer, non-regular, sworn member of the Police Department who
will serve with or without compensation and has regular police powers while
functioning as the Police Department’s representative, and will participate on
a regular basis in the agency’s activities, including those of crime prevention
and control, preservation of the peace, and enforcement of the law.
31.02   TRAINING.
Training for individuals appointed as reserve peace officers shall be provided
by instructors in a community college or other facility, including a law
enforcement agency, selected by the individual and approved by the law
enforcement agency and the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy. All standards and
training required under Chapter 80D of the Code of Iowa constitute the minimum
standards for reserve peace officers. Upon satisfactory completion of training,
the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy shall certify the individual as a reserve
peace officer. There shall be no exemptions from the personal and training
standards provided for in this chapter.
31.03   STATUS OF RESERVE OFFICERS.
Reserve peace officers shall serve as peace officers on the orders and at the
discretion of the Police Chief. While in the actual performance of official
duties, reserve peace officers shall be vested with the same rights,
privileges, obligations, and duties as any other peace officer.
31.04   CARRYING WEAPONS.
A member of the reserve force shall not carry a weapon in the line of duty
until he or she has been approved by the Council and certified by the Iowa Law
Enforcement Academy Council. After approval and certification, a reserve peace
officer may carry a weapon in the line of duty only when authorized by the
Police Chief.
31.05   SUPPLEMENTARY CAPACITY.
Reserve peace officers shall act only in a supplementary capacity to the
regular force and shall not assume full-time duties of regular peace officers
without first complying with all the requirements of regular peace officers.
31.06   SUPERVISION OF OFFICERS.
Reserve peace officers shall be subordinate to regular peace officers, shall
not serve as peace officers unless under the direction of regular peace
officers, and shall wear a uniform prescribed by the Police Chief, unless that
superior officer designates alternate apparel for use when engaged in
assignments involving special investigations, civil process, court duties, jail
duties, and the handling of mental patients. The reserve peace officers shall
not wear an insignia of rank.
31.07   NO REDUCTION OF REGULAR FORCE.
There shall be no reduction of the authorized size of the regular law
enforcement department of the City because of the establishment or utilization
of reserve peace officers.
31.08   COMPENSATION.
While performing official duties, each reserve peace officer shall be
considered an employee of the City and shall be paid a minimum of $1.00 per
year. The Council may provide additional monetary assistance for the purchase
and maintenance of uniforms and equipment used by reserve peace officers.
31.09   BENEFITS WHEN INJURED.
Hospital and medical assistance and benefits, as provided in Chapter 85 of the
Code of Iowa, shall be provided by the Council to members of the reserve force
who sustain injury in the course of performing official duties.
31.10   LIABILITY AND FALSE ARREST INSURANCE.
Liability and false arrest insurance shall be provided by the City to members
of the reserve force while performing official duties in the same manner as for
regular peace officers.
31.11   NO PARTICIPATION IN PENSION FUND OR RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
This chapter shall not be construed to authorize or permit a reserve peace
officer to become eligible for participation in a pension fund or retirement
system created by the laws of the State and of which regular peace officers may
become members.
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Liability
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety, and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility for the treatment, removal, and cleanup of
hazardous substance spills within the City limits.
36.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control,
identify, analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove, or dispose of a hazardous
substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
   2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual,
imminent, or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance
onto the land, into a water of the State, or into the atmosphere which creates
an immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
   3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
   4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
36.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection, dumping,
spilling, leaking, or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the hazardous
substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the environment
or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground
waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied by a
cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety, and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
36.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
   1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
   2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
   3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of,
or loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction, or loss.
   4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents
of the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused
by that person.
36.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
   1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing
of a hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources
and the Sheriff’s Department/County Office of Emergency Management of the
occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as possible but not later than six
hours after the onset of the hazardous condition or discovery of the hazardous
condition. The Sheriff’s Department/County Office of Emergency Management shall
immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources.
   2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
Sheriff’s Department/County Office of Emergency Management, which shall then
notify the Department of Natural Resources.
36.06   POLICE AUTHORITY.
If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or an
authorized representative may:
   1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
   2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
   No person shall disobey an order of any peace officer issued under this
section.
36.07   LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries, or
losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 37
VOLUNTEER FIRE AND EMERGENCY SERVICES DEPARTMENT
37.01 Establishment and      37.09 EMS - First Responders’ Duties
Purpose
37.02 Training               37.10 Volunteer First Responders
37.03 Election of Fire Chief 37.11 EMS - First Responders’ Association
37.04 Fire Chief’s Duties  37.12 Worker’s Compensation and Hospitalization
                             Insurance
37.05 Volunteer Firefighters 37.13 Liability Insurance
37.06 Firefighters’ Duties 37.14 Fire Service Fees and Charges
37.07 Fires Outside City      
Limits
37.08 Firefighters’         
Association
 
37.01   ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
A Volunteer Fire and Emergency Response Department is hereby established to
prevent and extinguish fire and to protect lives and property against fires, to
promote fire prevention and fire safety, and to respond to other emergencies as
listed in the department's standard operating procedures. An EMS emergency
response department is also established by this chapter.
37.02   TRAINING.
All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])
37.03   ELECTION OF FIRE CHIEF.
The Fire Department may elect the Fire Chief, subject to approval of the
Council for a term of two years or to fill a vacancy. The Council shall be
furnished the department's attendance records for drill, meetings, and fires,
and shall give due consideration to such records in approving the appointment
of a Fire Chief. The Council may remove, suspend, or demote the Fire Chief for
neglect of duty, disobedience, misconduct, or failure to properly perform the
duties of Chief by written order specifying the reasons for removal,
suspension, or demotion, which shall be filed with the City Administrator/
Clerk. Upon request in writing filed with the City Administrator/Clerk by the
Chief, the Council shall hold a public hearing on proposed action set forth in
the written order.
37.04   FIRE CHIEF’S DUTIES.
The Fire Chief shall command all operations of the department, and be
responsible for the care, maintenance and use of all vehicles and equipment of
the department. Subject to Council approval, the Chief shall establish and
maintain departmental rules and standard operating procedures to implement the
requirements of this chapter. The Chief shall provide every firefighter with a
written copy of these rules and procedures. With the approval of the Council,
the Chief shall appoint carefully selected volunteer firefighters, fill
vacancies among them, and may discharge them. The Chief shall keep a record of
the names, ages, and residences of the firefighters and be responsible for
their training and supervision, and shall maintain attendance records for drill
meetings and fires. The Chief shall investigate the cause, origin, and
circumstances of each fire by which property has been destroyed or damaged or
which results in bodily injury to any person. Whenever death, serious bodily
injury to any person, or property damage in excess of $200,000.00 has occurred
as a result of fire, or if arson is suspected, the Chief shall notify the State
Fire Marshal’s division immediately. The Chief shall report other fire
incidents within 10 days following each month to the State Fire Marshal in
accordance with law. The Chief has the authority to enter and inspect any
building or premises in the performance of duties and shall make written orders
to correct any conditions that are likely to cause fire or endanger other
buildings and property.
37.05   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS.
The Chief shall appoint volunteer firefighters with the approval of the
Council, in accordance with established criteria to serve as a volunteer
firefighter.
37.06   FIREFIGHTERS’ DUTIES.
When called, all firefighters shall report for duty immediately in the manner
directed by the Chief. They shall be subject to call at any time. They shall
obey strictly the commands of any other firefighter who has been appointed by
the Chief to be in command temporarily. Firefighters shall report to the Chief
in advance if they expect to be absent from the City for 12 hours or more.
Firefighters shall report for training as ordered by the Chief.
37.07   FIRES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
City limits if the Fire Chief or the Chief's designee determines that such
emergency exists and that such action will not endanger persons and property
within the City limits and subject to mutual aid or contract agreements.
37.08   FIREFIGHTERS’ ASSOCIATION.
Volunteer firefighters may form an association to promote the welfare of
firefighters and fire prevention and firefighting capabilities.
37.09   EMS - FIRST RESPONDERS’ DUTIES.
The first responders shall have a person in command of all operations of the
department, and be responsible for the care, maintenance and use of all
vehicles and equipment of the department. Subject to Council approval, the
person in charge shall establish and maintain departmental rules and standard
operating procedures to implement the requirements of this chapter. The person
in charge shall provide every first responder with a written copy of these
rules and procedures. With the approval of the Council, the person in charge
shall appoint carefully selected volunteer first responders, fill vacancies
among them, and may discharge them. The person in charge shall keep a record of
the names, ages, and residences of the first responders and be responsible for
their training and supervision, and shall maintain attendance records for
meetings, training, and responses.
37.10   VOLUNTEER FIRST RESPONDERS.
The person in charge shall appoint first responders with the approval of the
Council, in accordance with established criteria to serve as first responders.
37.11   EMS - FIRST RESPONDERS’ ASSOCIATION.
Volunteer first responders may form an association to promote the welfare of
first responders and their capabilities.
37.12   WORKER’S COMPENSATION AND HOSPITALIZATION INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to provide insurance for worker's compensation and
to provide insurance for the costs of hospitalization, nursing, and medical
attention for volunteer firefighters and first responders injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters and first responders. All volunteer
firefighters and first responders shall be covered by the contract.
37.13   LIABILITY INSURANCE.
The Council shall provide insurance to insure against liability of the members
of the departments for injuries, death or property damage arising out of and
resulting from the performance of department duties.
37.14   FIRE SERVICE FEES AND CHARGES.
   1.   Service Charges. All users of fire services shall be charged a fee for
such services rendered by the Fire Department in responding to a vehicular
accident or fire. For the purposes of this section the word “users” shall be
defined as all those people who have requested or who are lawfully responsible
for requesting such services.
   2.   Fees for Service. The amount of fees for use of the Fire Department and
to whom those fees shall be charged shall be set by Council resolution. All
Fire Department fees and charges are due upon presentation of a statement for
said fees and charges and shall be paid to the City Administrator/Clerk.
Actions for collection of same shall be brought in the name of the municipality
and in the same manner as other actions at law.
   3.   Billing. Invoices shall be issued by the Fire Chief and City
Administrator/Clerk. Fees collected will be deposited in the City’s Fire
Department equipment fund. Such funds shall be used to purchase equipment,
training, services, and supplies for the Fire Department.
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE
 
40.01 Assault    40.03 Disorderly Conduct
40.02 Harassment 40.04 Failure to Disperse
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
   1.   Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to cause pain or injury to
another or that is intended to result in physical contact that will be
insulting or offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute
the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[1])
   2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act that is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1[2])
An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
No person shall commit harassment.
   1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy, or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
      A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing, or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
      D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law
enforcement authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing
that the information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal
act, knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No person shall do any of the following:
   1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or
in or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in
athletic contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that
sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1a])
   2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which intentionally or recklessly causes unreasonable distress
to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1b])
   3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening
gesture that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a
violent reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1c])
   4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of
authority, disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct
intended to disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1d])
   5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate
a report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such
report to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1e])
   6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1f])
      A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
      B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
      C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
      D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
      E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
      F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
   7.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
      A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
      B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the
person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction
by another.
      C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral
procession, or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral,
memorial service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
                                                         41.08 Abandoned or
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  Unattended
                                                         Refrigerators
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.09 Antenna and
Safety Entities                                          Radio Wires
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.10 Barbed Wire and
                                                         Electric Fences
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.14 Fireworks
Device
                                                        41.15 Failure to
                                                         Assist
                                                         
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any corrosive,
caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person delivers such
into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes reasonable precautions
that the substance will not be taken by children or animals from the place
where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
   1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department,
a law enforcement authority, or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
   2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or
she is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
   3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be a
peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A of
the Code of Iowa, medical examiner, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer,
or a person performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the
Code of Iowa, in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the
lawful duty or authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care
provider, medical examiner, or firefighter, or person performing bailiff
duties, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution by any
authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any court. The
terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do not include verbal
harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by a present ability and
apparent intention to execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires, or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground, or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.10   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns, or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
   2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks, or missiles of any kind or
to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, BB guns, or
other dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway,
sidewalk, public way, public ground, or public building, without written
consent of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
41.13   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building, including
but not limited to the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway, doorway, or
window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14   FIREWORKS.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
   1.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
      A.   “Consumer fireworks” means the following fireworks, as described in
Chapter 3 of the American Pyrotechnics Association (“APA”) Standard 87-1:
         (1)   First-class consumer fireworks:
            a.   Aerial shell kits and reloadable tubes;
            b.   Chasers;
            c.   Helicopters and aerial spinners;
            d.   Firecrackers;
            e.   Mine and shell devices;
            f.   Missile-type rockets;
            g.   Roman candles;
            h.   Sky rockets and bottle rockets;
            i.   Multiple tube devices under this paragraph which are
manufactured in accordance with APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5.
         (2)   Second-class consumer fireworks:
            a.   Cone fountains;
            b.   Cylindrical fountains;
            c.   Flitter sparklers;
            d.   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices, including multiple
tube ground and hand-held sparkling devices that are manufactured in accordance
with APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.5;
            e.   Ground spinners;
            f.   Illuminating torches;
            g.   Toy smoke devices that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2;
            h.   Wheels;
            i.   Wire or dipped sparklers that are not classified as novelties
pursuant to APA Standard 87-1, Section 3.2.
      B.   “Display fireworks” includes any explosive composition, or
combination of explosive substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration,
or detonation, and includes fireworks containing any explosive or flammable
compound, or other device containing any explosive substance. “Display
fireworks” does not include novelties or consumer fireworks enumerated in
Chapter 3 of the APA Standard 87-1.
      C.   “Novelties” includes all novelties enumerated in Chapter 3 of the
APA Standard 87-1, and that comply with the labeling regulations promulgated by
the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission.
   2.   Display Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode any
display fireworks; provided, the City Council may, upon application in writing,
grant a permit for the display of display fireworks by municipalities, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of individuals
approved by the City when the display fireworks will be handled by a competent
operator, but no such permit shall be required for the display of display
fireworks at the Iowa State Fairgrounds by the Iowa State Fair Board, at
incorporated county fairs, or at district fairs receiving State aid.. No permit
shall be granted hereunder unless the operator or sponsoring organization has
filed with the City evidence of insurance in the following amounts:
      A.   Personal Injury:      $250,000.00 per person
      B.   Property Damage:      $50,000.00
      C.   Total Exposure:      $1,000,000.00
   3.   Consumer Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode
consumer fireworks within the City.
   4.   Novelties. This section does not apply to novelties.
41.15   FAILURE TO ASSIST.
A person who reasonably believes another person is suffering from a risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death shall, if the person is able,
attempt to contact local law enforcement or local emergency response
authorities, if doing so does not place the person or other person at risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death. No person shall without
lawful cause violate the provisions of this section. A person shall not be
required to contact local law enforcement or emergency response authorities if
the person knows or reasonably believes that the other person is not in need of
help or assistance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.12)
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Other Public Property Offenses
42.04 Unauthorized Entry                 
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
   1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
   2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
      A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance,
vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or
privately owned.
      B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of
the Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of
the Code of Iowa.
      C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
      D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person
owning, leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this
State.
      E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property
owned, leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
      F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
         (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of
the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
         (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
         (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect
of unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
         (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing
therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein
anything animate or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
         (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
         (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
   3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
      A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
      B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter, or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down, or
destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement, or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises, or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06   THEFT.
It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
   1.   
Chapter 22 – Library
      A.   Section
22.10 – Injury to Books or Property
      B.   Section
22.11 – Theft of Library Property
   2.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
      A.   Section
105.07 – Littering Prohibited
   3.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
      A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
      B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
      C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
      D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
      E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
      F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
      G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
   4.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
      A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
      B.   Section
136.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
      C.   Section
136.16 – Defacing
      D.   Section
136.17 – Debris on Sidewalks
      E.   Section
136.18 – Merchandise Display
      F.   Section
136.19 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 43
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
 
43.01 Purpose                      43.04 Determining Factors
43.02 Controlled Substance Defined 43.05 Possession of Drug Paraphernalia
43.03 Drug Paraphernalia Defined   43.06 Manufacture, Delivery, or Offering For
                                   Sale
 
43.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the use, possession with intent to
use, manufacture, and delivery of drug paraphernalia as defined herein.
43.02   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE DEFINED.
The term “controlled substance” as used in this chapter is defined as the term
“controlled substance” is defined in the Uniform Controlled Substance Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, as it now exists or is hereafter amended.
43.03   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA DEFINED.
The term “drug paraphernalia” as used in this chapter means all equipment,
products, and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use, or
designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, concealing, containing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act,
Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa. It includes, but is not limited to:
   1.   Growing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of
plant which is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can
be derived.
   2.   Processing Kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substances.
   3.   Isomerization Devices. Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or
designed for use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a
controlled substance.
   4.   Testing Equipment. Testing equipment used, intended for use, or
designed for use in identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or
purity of controlled substances.
   5.   Scales. Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances.
   6.   Diluents. Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, or lactose, used, intended for use, or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances.
   7.   Separators; Sifters. Separation gins and sifters used, intended for
use, or designed for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise
cleaning or refining marijuana.
   8.   Mixing Devices. Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices
used, intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled
substances.
   9.   Containers. Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances.
   10.   Storage Containers. Containers and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
   11.   Injecting Devices. Hypodermic syringes, needles, and other objects
used, intended for use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting
controlled substances into the human body.
   12.   Ingesting-Inhaling Device. Objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing heroin, marijuana,
cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body, such as:
      A.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with
or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
      B.   Water pipes;
      C.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      D.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      E.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials, such as
a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand;
      F.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
      G.   Chamber pipes;
      H.   Carburetor pipes;
      I.   Electric pipes;
      J.   Air driven pipes;
      K.   Chillums;
      L.   Bongs;
      M.   Ice pipes or chillers.
43.04   DETERMINING FACTORS.
In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia for the purpose of
enforcing this chapter, the following factors should be considered in addition
to all other logically relevant factors:
   1.   Statements. Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the
object concerning its use.
   2.   Prior Convictions. Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone
in control of the object under any State or federal law relating to any
controlled substance.
   3.   Proximity to Violation. The proximity of the object, in time and space,
to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled Substance Act, Chapter 124 of
the Code of Iowa.
   4.   Proximity to Substances. The proximity of the object to controlled
substances.
   5.   Residue. The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object.
   6.   Evidence of Intent. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of
an owner or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom
he or she knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to
facilitate a violation of the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of
the Code of Iowa.
   7.   Innocence of an Owner. The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in
control of the object, as to a direct violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa, should not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   8.   Instructions. Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use.
   9.   Descriptive Materials. Descriptive materials accompanying the object
explaining or depicting its use.
   10.   Advertising. National and local advertising concerning its use.
   11.   Displayed. The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
   12.   Licensed Distributor or Dealer. Whether the owner, or anyone in
control of the object, is a legitimate supplier of like or related items to the
community, such as a licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
   13.   Sales Ratios. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales
of the object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise.
   14.   Legitimate Uses. The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the
object in the community.
   15.   Expert Testimony. Expert testimony concerning its use.
43.05   POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform Controlled
Substance Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
43.06   MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY, OR OFFERING FOR SALE.
It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver,
manufacture with intent to deliver, or offer for sale drug paraphernalia,
intending that the drug paraphernalia will be used, or knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know that it will be used, or knowing
that it is designed for use to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Uniform
Controlled Substances Act, Chapter 124 of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 44
NOISE AND NOISE LIMITS
 
44.01 Definitions                  44.04 Measurement of Noise and Sound
44.02 Noise Disturbance Prohibited 44.05 Permits to Exceed Limits
44.03 Prohibited Sounds            44.06 Other Laws and Ordinances
 
44.01   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Application” means the application submitted to the City requesting a
noise permit.
   2.   “Emergency” means any occurrence or set of circumstances involving
actual or imminent physical or psychological trauma or property damage which
demands immediate action.
   3.   “Emergency work” means any work performed for the purpose of
alleviating or resolving an emergency.
   4.   “Farm equipment” means the implements used in an operation or activity,
or everything except personnel needed for cultivation or production of crops of
any nature, or raising of any type of animal embraced within the term
livestock.
   5.   “Motor vehicle” means every vehicle which is self-propelled. (Note:
includes recreational vehicles such as snowmobiles, minibikes, stock cars, all-
terrain vehicles, and motorboats).
   6.   “Noise disturbance” means any transmission of sound across a real
property boundary from a source specifically limited by this chapter.
   7.   “Official vehicles” means governmental, Police Department, and Fire
Department equipment, public utility company equipment, railroad company
equipment and emergency vehicles such as ambulances and helicopters.
   8.   “Person” means, unless used in such a manner to denote only a human
being, any firm, partnership, domestic, or foreign corporation, association,
joint stock company, trust or other association of entity, City, County, or
State government and subdivisions or agencies thereof, and the federal
government and subdivisions and agencies thereof.
   9.   “Powered model vehicle” means any self-propelled airborne, waterborne,
or land borne model plane, vessel or vehicle which is not designed to carry
persons including, but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car, or
rocket.
   10.   “Public right-of-way” means the traveled portion of any street or
alley or similar place which is owned or controlled by the City or other
governmental entity.
   11.   “Real property boundary” means an imaginary line along the ground
surface, and its vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by
one person from that owned by another person, but not including intra-building
real property divisions.
   12.   “Residential property” or “Residential district” means any property on
which is located a building or structure used wholly or partially for living or
sleeping purposes.
   13.   “Sound” means an oscillation in pressure, particle displacement,
particle velocity or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces
which cause compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of
sound may include any characteristic of sound, including duration, density, and
frequency.
   14.   “Sound equipment” means any radio, record player, tape deck or compact
disc player, loudspeaker, amplifier, soundtrack, or other device for producing,
reproducing, or amplifying sound; except, however, “sound equipment” does not
include sirens and other equipment used to alert persons to the existence of
any emergency; equipment used by law enforcement and other public safety
officials in the performance of their official duties; church carillons, bells
or chimes; mobile radio or telephone signaling devices; or automobile and truck
radios or players of recorded music such as compact discs or tapes or other
such standard equipment used and intended for the use and enjoyment of the
occupants of the vehicle, provided that the sound emitted from the vehicle does
not exceed 75 dB(A) when measured at a distance of 25 feet.
   15.   “Sound level meter” means an instrument used to measure sound
pressure.
44.02   NOISE DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to willfully make, continue, cause, or allow any
noise disturbance within the City limits.
44.03   PROHIBITED SOUNDS.
   1.   “Noise disturbance” means any of the following sounds:
      A.   Alarm Testing. The sound emitted by the intentional sounding
outdoors of any privately owned fire alarm, burglar alarm, siren, whistle, or
similar stationary emergency signaling device for the essential testing of such
device, when conducted between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
      B.   Motor Vehicle Radios. The sound emitted by a radio, tape deck,
electronic player, compact disc player, or other such equipment used and
intended for the use and enjoyment of such vehicle’s occupants or riders while
such vehicle is on the public right-of-way, when the sound emitted from the
vehicle exceeds 80 dB(A) when measured at a distance of 25 feet.
      C.   Chain Saws. The sound emitted by motor powered tree trimming
equipment operated between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      D.   Construction Noise. The sound made by privately owned and operated
tools or equipment in erection, demolition, excavation, drilling, or other such
construction work which is received between the houses of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m.
      E.   Engine Repairs and Testing. The sound made by the repairing,
rebuilding, modifying, or testing a motor vehicle which is received between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. at the real property boundary of residential
property.
      F.   Injurious or Disturbing Sounds Generally. Any sound which endangers
or injures the health, safety, or welfare of a human being, disturbs a
reasonable human being of normal sensitivities, or causes or tends to cause an
adverse physiological or physical effect on human beings, or devalues or
injures property.
      G.   Lawn and Garden Equipment. The sound emitted by motor powered lawn
and garden equipment operated between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      H.   Loading and Unloading. The sound made by outdoor loading, unloading,
opening, closing, or handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials,
trash cans, containers, receptacles, or dumpsters which are received at the
real property boundary of residential property between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m.
      I.   Musical Instruments. The sound made by a drum, horn, reed, or string
instrument, or other musical instrument or device which is received at the real
property boundary of residential property between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m.
      J.   Noisy Exhaust System. The sound made by a motor vehicle or a
recreational vehicle whose exhaust system is defective or has been modified by
the installation of a muffler cutout or bypass.
      K.   Off-Road Motor Vehicle Noise. The sound made on private or City
owned property other than a public right-of-way and received at the real
property boundary of residential property between the house of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m.
      L.   Powered Model Vehicles. The sound made by the operation of a powered
model vehicle which is received at the real property boundary of residential
property between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      M.   Racing. The sound made by a motor vehicle or recreational vehicle on
private property or public right-of-way during any racing event or time trial,
whether organized or unorganized.
      N.   Screeching Tires. The sound made by the intentional screeching or
squealing of the tires of a motor vehicle.
      O.   Sound Equipment. The sound made by sound equipment operated upon the
public right-of-way, in any building or upon any public or private premises
shall be classified as a noise disturbance if either of the following applies:
         (1)   The sound is in excess of the maximum permitted levels shown in
the chart below when measured at the property boundary, or anywhere within the
property, of a receiving land use, or if in a park, approximately 200 feet from
the source of the sound or, when a complaint is received, at the nearest
boundary of the property where the complaining party was disturbed; or
         (2)   The sound is of a nature that cannot accurately be measured by a
sound level meter, and such sound is disturbing to a reasonable human being of
normal sensitivities.
 
Receiving Land Use Maximum dB Permitted
Residential        65 between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
                   55 between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Commercial         70
Industrial         75
Park               65
 
      P.   Wind Energy Systems. The sound made by wind energy systems shall be
classified as a noise disturbance if either of the following apply:
         (1)   The sound is in excess of 55 dB when measured at the property
boundary at the nearest boundary of the property where the complaining party
was disturbed or anywhere within the property of a receiving use; or
         (2)   The sound is of a nature that cannot accurately be measured by a
sound level meter, and such sound is disturbing to a reasonable human being of
normal sensibilities.
   2.   The following sounds are specifically exempted from this chapter:
      A.   Official Vehicles. Governmental, Police Department, and Fire
Department equipment, public utility company equipment, railroad company
equipment and emergency vehicles such as ambulances and helicopters are exempt
from the provisions of this chapter.
      B.   Persons operating the following equipment are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter: farm equipment, snow blowers, and snowplows.
      C.   Portland Cement Concrete Joint Sawing Equipment. A contractor
performing duties in connection with an approved subdivision plan or a City
public improvement project may perform necessary joint sawing of pavement upon
approval of the City Engineer, Public Works Director, or City Administrator/
Clerk and shall be exempt from this chapter.
      D.   Noise Permit. Sound in excess of the maximum permitted levels shall
not be a noise disturbance if such sound is emitted in accordance with a noise
permit issued by the City.
44.04   MEASUREMENT OF NOISE AND SOUND.
The measurement of sound or noise shall be made with a sound level meter and A-
weighting network, such as a, b, or c as specified in American National
Standards Institute Specifications for Sound Level Meters, ANSI S1.4-1971. If
the frequency weighting employed is not indicated, the A-weighting shall apply.
A calibration check shall be made of the system at the time of any noise
measurement. Measurements recorded shall be taken so as to provide a proper
representation of the noise source. The microphone shall be positioned so as
not to create an unnatural enhancement or diminution of the measured noise. A
windscreen for the microphone shall be used when required.
44.05   PERMITS TO EXCEED LIMITS.
The Council, on written application, for good cause shown, may grant a special
permit to exceed the sound and/or time limits established in Section
43.04 for specific activities generally or for limited times and/or dates
provided that the sound level does not exceed 75 dB(A) at the receiving land
use. The Council shall adopt a procedure for such application, including permit
fee and terms and conditions of the issuance of such permit, by resolution.
44.06   OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
No provisions of this chapter should be construed to legalize or permit sounds,
devices or activities made unlawful by other ordinances of the City, State, or
federal statutes.
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.  
   1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence, and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a retail alcohol licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[3])
   2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for
the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from
any retail alcohol licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
   1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
      A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of
Iowa and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
      B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine
to determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using
devices and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      C.   “Peace officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
      D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a
public or private school that provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
   2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer upon
the public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic
liquor in any public place, except premises covered by a retail alcohol
license. A person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine, or beer
on public school property or while attending any public or private school-
related function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
   3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
   4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public
intoxication under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that
the person may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense.
If a device approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample
of a person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section
62.01(50) and (51) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04   SOCIAL HOST.
A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premises shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
18, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47)
CHAPTER 46
MINORS
 
46.01 Curfew                 46.03 Contributing to Delinquency
46.02 Cigarettes and Tobacco
 
46.01   CURFEW.
The Council has determined that a curfew for minors is necessary to promote the
public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the City and specifically
to reinforce the primary authority and responsibility of adults responsible for
minors; to protect the public from the illegal acts of minors committed after
the curfew hour; and to protect minors from improper influences and criminal
activity that prevail in public places after the curfew hour.
   1.   Definitions. For use in this section, the following terms are defined:
      A.   “Emergency errand” means, but is not limited to, an errand relating
to a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any other situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious illness, bodily injury, or loss
of life.
      B.   “Knowingly” means knowledge that a responsible adult should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that
responsible adult’s custody. It is intended to continue to hold the neglectful
or careless adult responsible for a minor to a reasonable standard of adult
responsibility through an objective test. It is therefore no defense that an
adult responsible for a minor was completely indifferent to the activities or
conduct or whereabouts of the minor.
      C.   “Minor” means any unemancipated person under the age of 18 years.
      D.   “Nonsecured custody” means custody in an unlocked multipurpose area,
such as a lobby, office or interrogation room that is not designed, set aside,
or used as a secure detention area, and the person arrested is not physically
secured during the period of custody in the area; the person is physically
accompanied by a law enforcement officer or a person employed by the facility
where the person arrested is being held; and the use of the area is limited to
providing nonsecured custody only while awaiting transfer to an appropriate
juvenile facility or to court, for contacting of and release to the person’s
parents or other responsible adult or for other administrative purposes; but
not for longer than six hours without the oral or written order of a judge or
magistrate authorizing the detention. A judge shall not extend the period of
time in excess of six hours beyond the initial six-hour period.
      E.   “Public place” includes stores, parking lots, parks, playgrounds,
streets, alleys, and sidewalks dedicated to public use and also includes such
parts of buildings and other premises, whether publicly or privately owned,
that are used by the general public or to which the general public is invited
commercially for a fee or otherwise; or in or on which the general public is
permitted without specific invitation; or to which the general public has
access. For purposes of this section, a vehicle or other conveyance is
considered to be a public place when in the areas defined above.
      F.   “Responsible adult” means a parent, guardian or other adult
specifically authorized by law or authorized by a parent or guardian to have
custody or control of a minor.
   2.   Curfew Established. A curfew applicable to minors is established and
shall be enforced as follows: Unless accompanied by a responsible adult, no
minor 17 years of age or younger shall be in any public place during the
following times:
      A.   Sunday through Thursday - 10:30 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
      B.   Friday and Saturday - 12:30 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
   3.   Exceptions. The following are exceptions to the curfew:
      A.   The minor is accompanied by a responsible adult.
      B.   The minor is on the sidewalk or property where the minor resides or
on either side of the place where the minor resides and the adult responsible
for the minor has given permission for the minor to be there.
      C.   The minor is present at or is traveling between home and one of the
following:
         (1)   Minor’s place of employment in a business, trade or occupation
in which the minor is permitted by law to be engaged or, if traveling, within
one hour after the end or before the beginning of work;
         (2)   Minor’s place of religious activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the religious activity;
         (3)   Governmental or political activity or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the activity;
         (4)   School activity or, if traveling, within one hour after the end
or before the beginning of the activity;
         (5)   Assembly such as a march, protest, demonstration, sit-in, or
meeting of an association for the advancement of economic, political,
religious, or cultural matters, or for any other activity protected by the
First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution guarantees of free exercise of
religion, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly or, if traveling, within one
hour after the end or before the beginning of the activity.
         (6)   The minor’s business, trade, or occupation, in which the minor
is permitted by law to be engaged, requires the presence of the minor in the
public place.
      D.   The minor is on an emergency errand for a responsible adult;
      E.   The minor is engaged in interstate travel through the City
beginning, ending, or passing through the City when such travel is by direct
route.
   4.   Responsibility of Adults. It is unlawful for any responsible adult
knowingly to permit or to allow a minor to be in any public place in the City
within the time periods prohibited by this section unless the minor’s presence
falls within one of the above exceptions.
   5.   Enforcement Procedures.
      A.   Determination of Age. In determining the age of the juvenile and in
the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate or driver’s
license, a law enforcement officer on the street shall, in the first instance,
use his or her best judgment in determining age.
      B.   Grounds for Arrest; Conditions of Custody. Grounds for arrest are
that the person refuses to sign the citation without qualification; persists in
violating the ordinance; refuses to provide proper identification or to
identify himself or herself; or constitutes an immediate threat to the person’s
own safety or to the safety of the public. A law enforcement officer who
arrests a minor for a curfew violation may keep the minor in custody either in
a shelter care facility or in any nonsecured setting. The officer shall not
place bodily restraints, such as handcuffs, on the minor unless the minor
physically resists or threatens physical violence when being taken into
custody. A minor shall not be placed in detention following a curfew violation.
      C.   Notification of Responsible Adult. After a minor is taken into
custody, the law enforcement officer shall notify the adult responsible for the
minor as soon as possible. The minor shall be released to the adult responsible
for the minor upon the promise of such person to produce the child in court at
such time as the court may direct.
      D.   Minor Without Adult Supervision. If a law enforcement officer
determines that a minor does not have adult supervision because the law
enforcement officer cannot locate the minor’s parent, guardian or other person
legally responsible for the care of the minor, within a reasonable time, the
law enforcement officer shall attempt to place the minor with an adult relative
of the minor, an adult person who cares for the child or another adult person
who is known to the child.
   6.   Penalties.
      A.   Responsible Adult’s First Violation. In the case of a first
violation by a minor, the law enforcement officer shall, by certified mail,
send to the adult responsible for the minor, written notice of the violation
with a warning that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of
the curfew ordinance against both the responsible adult and minor, with
applicable penalties.
      B.   Responsible Adult’s Second Violation. Any responsible adult as
defined in this section who, following receipt of a warning, knowingly allows
the minor to violate any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
simple misdemeanor.
      C.   Minor’s First Violation. In the case of a first violation by a
minor, the law enforcement officer shall give the minor a written warning,
which states that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of
the curfew ordinance against the responsible adult and the minor, with
applicable penalties, or, at the law enforcement officer’s discretion, may
issue the minor a citation for a first violation.
      D.   Minor’s Second Violation. For the minor’s second and subsequent
violations of any of the provisions of this section, the minor is guilty of a
simple misdemeanor.
      E.   Upon conviction, the person shall be punished by a fine or community
service as ordered by the Court.
   7.   Notice. Notice of the ordinance codified in this section and its
contents may be posted in or about such public or quasi-public places as may be
designated by the Council or the Police Department in order that the public may
be constantly informed of the existence of such ordinance and its regulations.
46.02   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.03   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age to
commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS
 
47.01 Purpose                47.05 Alcoholic Beverages
47.02 Use of Drives Required 47.06 Tobacco Use
47.03 Fires                  47.07 Skateboards
47.04 Littering
 
47.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park facilities
by the general public by establishing rules and regulations governing the use
of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02   USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
No person shall drive any car, cycle or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except by authorization from the City.
47.03   FIRES.
No fires shall be built, except in a place provided therefor, and such fire
shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be immediately
used by some other party.
47.04   LITTERING.
No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter or foreign
substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that purpose.
47.05   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
The use, consumption or possession of alcoholic liquors or beer or wine in a
park shall be permitted only upon approval of the Police Chief.
47.06   TOBACCO USE.
The use of tobacco is not permitted in City parks.
47.07   SKATEBOARD.
Use of skateboards on any area of the City park is prohibited.
CHAPTER 48
COMMUNITY CENTER REGULATIONS
 
48.01 Purpose   48.03 Alcoholic Beverages
48.02 Littering 48.04 Tobacco Use
 
48.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of the Community
Center by the general public by establishing rules and regulations governing
the use of the Community Center facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
48.02   LITTERING.
No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter, or foreign
substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that purpose.
48.03   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
The use, consumption, or possession of beer and wine in the Community Center
shall be permitted subject to conditions of the rental agreement. A person
shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor in the Community Center.
48.04   TOBACCO USE.
The use of tobacco is not permitted in the Community Center.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisance Abatement
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Other Conditions       50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited    
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions that are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
   1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing, or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort, or property
of individuals or the public.
   2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
   3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without
legal authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water.
   4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the
water of any river, stream, or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its
natural course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by
fences, buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, or burying grounds.
   6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards, and advertising signs, whether
erected and constructed on public or private property, that so obstruct and
impair the view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway,
boulevard, or alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render
dangerous the use thereof. (See also Section
62.06) 
   7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk,
such as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also
Chapter 51) 
   8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes, or fly ash.
   9.   Weeds, Brush. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush, or other
vegetation in the City so as to constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard.
(See also
Chapter 52)
   10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch elm disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
   11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within
1,000 feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or
landing place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-
off and landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or
enjoyment of the land on which the same is located.
   12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, or breaches of the peace are carried
on or permitted to the disturbance of others.
   13.   Code of Ordinances. Maintaining any violation of the Code of
Ordinances.
50.03   OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
   1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
   2.   Grass and Weeds (See
Chapter 52)
   3.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
   4.   Dangerous Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
   5.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
50.04   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance, public
or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.07. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall
contain: † 1
  
      A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
      B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
      C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
      D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
      E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or
condition is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within
the time prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the
property owner.
   2.   Method of Service. The notice may be in the form of an ordinance or
sent by certified mail to the property owner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the City Administrator/Clerk
within the time stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that
a nuisance exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before
the Council at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the
Council shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be
ordered abated within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
   4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in Subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
Subsections 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in Subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or
condition neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the
required action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred.
The itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   6.   Collection of Costs. The City Administrator/Clerk shall send a
statement of the total expense incurred by certified mail to the property owner
who has failed to abide by the notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the
statement has not been paid within one month, the City Administrator/Clerk
shall certify the costs to the County Treasurer and such costs shall then be
collected with, and in the same manner as, general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to
abate the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the
assessment to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same
manner and with the same interest rates provided for assessments against
benefited property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
   8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who
shall fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time
required and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
1 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance  
 
51.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery,
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery, or appliances; iron,
steel, or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass,
tinware, plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly
stacked firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
   2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the
County Treasurer or unlicensed and having any of the following characteristics:
      A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield,
window, headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
      B.   Broken, Loose, or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose, or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel, or trunk lid.
      C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle that has become
the habitat for rats, mice, snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
      D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle that contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
      E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle that lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of 30 days or more.
      F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle that, because of
its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to
the public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
   3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, except devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04   EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any junk or a junk vehicle
stored within a garage or other enclosed structure.
51.05   NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section
51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
GRASS AND WEEDS
 
52.01 Purpose                           52.06 Nuisances
52.02 Rules for Removal                 52.07 Enforcement
52.03 Definitions                       52.08 Emergency Control Measures
52.04 Authority for Enforcement         52.09 Control of Weeds or Other
                                        Vegetation
52.05 Interference with Public Official 52.10 Habitual Violators
 
52.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the removal of weeds, vines,
brush, or other growth constituting a health, fire, or safety hazard within the
City, to define the same as nuisances and to provide for their abatement in
order to provide for the safety and preserve the health and welfare of the
citizens of the City.
52.02   RULES FOR REMOVAL.
All weeds, vines, brush or other growth which constitute a health, safety or
fire hazard shall be cut or destroyed by the property owners when and as needed
(as determined by the Council or its authorized representative, if the property
owner fails to do so), but in any event at least once by May 1 of each year and
thereafter by no later than the first day of each succeeding month through and
including October 1 of each year.
52.03   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Noxious weeds” means primary and secondary classes of weeds as defined
by the Code of Iowa, and all additions to this list as so declared by the State
Secretary of Agriculture.
   2.   “Parking” means that part of the street, avenue or highway in the City
not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and curb line; on
unpaved streets, the parking is that part of the street, avenue, or highway
lying between the lot lines and that portion of the street usually traveled by
vehicular traffic.
   3.   “Right-of-way” means the entire width of a platted street or alley in
use or undeveloped.
   4.   “Public official” means the person designated by the Mayor or City
Administrator/Clerk to enforce this chapter.
   5.   “Weeds” means any plants growing uncultivated and out of context with
the surrounding plant life when such plant has a seed head formed or forming
and with a height of eight inches or more, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
52.04   AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
The Mayor or City Administrator/Clerk or any person designated by the Mayor or
City Administrator/Clerk is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter and
shall have all the necessary authority to carry out the enforcement of this
chapter.
52.05   INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC OFFICIAL.
No persons shall interfere with the Mayor, City Administrator/Clerk or designee
or any appointed assistant while engaged in the enforcement of this chapter.
52.06   NUISANCES.
Except as provided elsewhere in this chapter, the following provisions shall
apply:
   1.   Each owner and each person in the possession or control of any land
shall cut or otherwise destroy, in whatever manner prescribed by the Public
Official, all noxious weeds, weeds, vines, brush, or other growth constituting
a health, fire, or safety hazard thereon and shall keep said lands free of such
growth.
   2.   Each owner and each person in possession or control of any property
shall be responsible to keep said lot, including along with parking adjacent
thereto, alleys, public ways, or areas up to the centerline of said ways free
of any noxious weeds and to keep grasses and weeds on said lot mowed so that
grass and weeds are less than eight inches in height. However, grass and weeds
located on undeveloped and unplatted property located more than 100 feet from
developed or platted property shall be mowed so that grass and weeds are less
than 18 inches in height.
   3.   Each owner and each person in the possession or control of any lands
shall not allow any plant growth of any sort to remain in such a manner as to
render the streets, alleys, or public ways adjoining said land unsafe for
public travel or in any manner so as to impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic
upon any public place or way.
   4.   Where waterways or watercourses are found upon any developed or
undeveloped lot, the owner or person in possession or control shall keep the
flat or level part of the bank of said waterway free of any weeds and grasses
more than 18 inches in height. Should such waterways or watercourses be found
within the right-of-way of a street or alley, the adjacent property owner or
person in possession or control shall be responsible to keep the flat or
accessible portion of creek bank free of any weeds or grasses more than 18
inches in height.
   5.   No owner or person in possession or control of any developed or
undeveloped lot shall allow plant growth or the accumulation of plant materials
on such lot to remain in such a state so as to constitute a fire hazard. In no
instance shall cut plant material accumulations be located within 150 feet of a
building, structure, recreation area (not including the width of any
intervening street) or within 125 feet of a street right-of-way.
52.07   ENFORCEMENT.
The Mayor, City Administrator/Clerk, or designee may inspect all areas alleged
to be in violation and, in the case of a founded violation, notify the last
known owner or person in possession (or control) of the area of violation of
this chapter. Said notice shall be by certified mail and allow 72 hours after
mailing said notice as a period of time to eliminate said violations. Return
receipt with signature is not required for said notice. The Mayor, City
Administrator/Clerk or designee shall charge an administrative fee in the
amount of $25.00 for each founded violation. Upon failure of the owner or
person in possession or control to act within the prescribed 72-hour time
period, the City may perform the required action and assess costs against the
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax. In the event such
action is taken, the Mayor, City Administrator/Clerk, or designee may obtain
competitive quotes to have the required action performed. If no quotes are
obtained, the City may have the City personnel perform the required action at
rates which shall be established by resolution of the Council from time to
time, which rates shall constitute costs to be assessed against the property as
provided herein. In addition to the foregoing remedy and other remedies by law,
the Mayor, City Administrator/Clerk, or designee may file misdemeanor charges
against such individuals or municipal infractions.
52.08   EMERGENCY CONTROL MEASURES.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever in the judgment
of the Mayor, City Administrator/Clerk, or designee an emergency exists
creating a health, safety or fire hazard which may require weed or grass
control without prior notice, control measures shall be taken and costs
assessed against the property for collection in the same manner as property
tax. However, prior to such assessment, the City shall give the property owner
notice by certified mail and an opportunity for a hearing before the Council.
52.09   CONTROL OF WEEDS OR OTHER VEGETATION.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall annually on or before May 1 through August 1
of each year publish a Notice to Property Owners generally setting forth the
duty to control weeds and other vegetation which might be a nuisance in
violation of this Code of Ordinances. The Mayor, City Administrator/Clerk or
designee may cause a Notice to Abate Nuisance to be served upon any property
owner who fails to comply with the published notice or any person who at any
other time has weeds or other vegetation in violation of this Code of
Ordinances and shall submit the cost to the Council for assessment as provided
in Section 364.12 of the Code of Iowa. In the event of an emergency as set
forth in Section 364.12 of the Code of Iowa, the notice requirement may be
dispensed with. In abating a nuisance under this Code of Ordinances, the Mayor,
City Administrator/Clerk, or designee are hereby authorized and directed to
employ such persons and rent any and all equipment necessary for the abatement
of the nuisance and the costs thereof shall be assessed.
52.10   HABITUAL VIOLATORS.
If the owner or person in control of any land has previously received a notice
to abate nuisance relating to weeds within the preceding 24 months, then the
notice to abate nuisance may include notice that such owner or person in
control of said property will be considered to be an habitual violator of this
chapter and that if the nuisance is not abated within the allowed time, the
City will consider the property to be subject to having a contract let by the
City for mowing property as needed up to a weekly basis for the next following
24-month period of time and that the full cost of said contract together with
an administrative fee of $250.00 will be assessed against the property.
CHAPTER 53
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
53.01 Purpose                             53.09 Unsafe Structures and Equipment
53.02 Interpretation                      53.10 Means of Appeal
53.03 Abrogation and Greater Restrictions 53.11 Overcrowding
53.04 Definitions                         53.12 Nuisances
53.05 Authority for Enforcement           53.13 Notice to Abate
53.06 Interference with the Propety       53.14 Emergency Abatement Measures
Maintenance Official
53.07 International Property Maintenance  53.15 Code on File
Code, 2024 Edition Adopted
53.08 Amendments to the Property           
Maintenance Code
 
53.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare, esthetics and property values, by establishing minimum standards for
maintenance, appearance, condition, and occupancy, and for essential utilities,
facilities, and other physical components and conditions to make residential
premises fit for human habitation, and to make non-residential premises fit for
use according to the purpose for which they were developed; by fixing certain
responsibilities and duties upon the owners and managers, and distinct and
separate responsibilities and duties upon the occupants; by authorizing and
establishing penalties for violations; and providing for proper repair,
demolition, or vacation premises which do not comply with this chapter.
53.02   INTERPRETATION.
This provision of this chapter shall be interpreted and applied as minimum
requirements, and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal for any other
power granted by the Code of Iowa. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
to abrogate the federal or State Constitutions, nor to grant power to the City
that are otherwise reserved by or for federal and State government.
53.03   ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
It is not the intent of this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, ordinances, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or
issued pursuant to law. Where two or more provisions apply the higher standard
shall prevail.
53.04   DEFINITIONS.
Words used in the chapter shall have the same meaning as that defined by the
Zoning Ordinance, unless otherwise defined by this chapter.
   1.   “Abandoned building” means any building or portion of a building under
construction which has stood with an incomplete exterior shell for more than
one year, or any completed building or portion thereof which has stood
unoccupied for longer than six months, and which is unsecured or has Housing
Code or Building Code violations.
   2.   “Deterioration” means a state of conditions caused by lack of
maintenance or excessive use, characterized by holes, breaks, rot, crumbling,
peeling paint, rusting, or other evidence of physical decay or neglect.
   3.   “Enforcement Officer” means the Mayor, Council, Police Officer, City
Administrator/Clerk, Public Works Director, or other City staff as may be
assigned.
   4.   “Exposed to public view” means any premises or any part thereof which
may be lawfully viewed by the public or from adjoining premises.
   5.   “Exterior” means yards and other open outdoor spaces on premises, and
the external surfaces of any structure.
   6.   “Extermination” means the control and elimination of insects, rodents,
and vermin.
   7.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste, or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or appliances, iron, steel
or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tinware,
plastic or old or discarded household goods or hardware. Neatly stacked
firewood located on a side yard or rear yard is not considered junk.
   8.   “Nuisance” means physical conditions that are dangerous or detrimental
to the health or safety of persons on or near premises where the conditions
exist, or anything that is injurious to the senses or interferes with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
   9.   “Public authority” means any officer or any department or branch of the
City, County, or State charged with regulating health, fire, zoning, building
regulations, public safety, or other activities concerning property in the
City.
   10.   “Refuse” means any material that has lost its value for the original
purpose for which it was created or manufactured, or for its resigned use,
whether putrescible or non-putrescible, combustible or non-combustible, which
is not securely or stored in a building or legal outdoor storage yard for
prompt disposal or resale including, but not limited to, junk paper or
cardboard; plastic, metals; glass; yard clippings, leaves, woody vegetative
trimmings, and other plant wastes which have not been properly composted;
vegetable or animal waste resulting from handling, processing, storage,
preparation, serving or consumption of food crockery; bedding furniture, or
appliances; offal; rubbish; ashes or incinerator residue; construction debris;
accumulation of animal feces; dead animals; or wastes from commercial or
industrial processes.
   11.   “Responsible party” means any person having possession, charge, care,
or control of real or personal property, whether with or without the knowledge
and consent of the owner including, without limitation, any one or more of the
following: owner, agent, property manager, contract purchaser, mortgagee or
vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or tenant, or any
other person, firm or corporation exercising apparent control over a property.
53.05   AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
The City Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for the enforcement of this
chapter and shall have all the necessary authority to carry out such
enforcement. Any person designated by the City Enforcement Officer, Mayor, or
City Council to enforce this chapter shall be known as the Property Maintenance
Official.
53.06   INTERFERENCE WITH THE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE OFFICIAL.
No person shall interfere with the Property Maintenance Official while engaged
in the enforcement of this chapter.
53.07   INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINENANCE CODE, 2024 EDITION ADOPTED.
Except as hereinafter added to, deleted, modified or amended, there is hereby
adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the City of Garnavillo that certain
code known as International Property Maintenance Code, 2024 Edition, First
Printing, including Appendix A, as prepared and edited by the International
Code Council, Inc. and the provisions of said International Property
Maintenance Code shall be controlling in regulating the conditions and
maintenance of all structures and premises and to ensure that structures are
safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and other uses within the corporate
limits of the City and shall be known as the Garnavillo Property Maintenance
Code.
53.08   AMENDMENTS TO THE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
Certain sections and portions of sections of the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2024 Edition, are hereby amended, deleted, modified or added
to as more specifically set forth below and in the following sections of this
chapter.
   1.   Section 101.1 Insert: {'{'}City of Garnavillo, Iowa{'}'}
   2.   Section 103.5 Insert: {'{'}fee schedule as set by Council resolution
{'}'}
   3.   Section 112.4 Insert: {'{'}fine schedule as set by Council resolution
{'}'}
   4.   Section 302.4 Insert: {'{'}8 inches{'}'} (from
52.03 #5 Weeds)
   5.   Section 304.14 Insert: {'{'}April 1, September 30{'}'}
   6.   Section 602.3 Insert: {'{'}October 1, April 30{'}'}
   7.   Section 602.4 Insert: {'{'}October 1, April 30{'}'}
53.09   UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT.
The Garnavillo Property Maintenance Code is hereby amended by repealing Section
108.1 of the International Property Maintenance Code, 2024 Edition, and by
replacing said section with a new section, as follows:
   108.1 General. When a structure or equipment is found by the Code Official
to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, or is
found unlawful, the Code Official shall commence proceedings to cause the
repair, vacation or demolition of the structure and the structure may be
condemned pursuant to the provisions of this code.
53.10   MEANS OF APPEAL.
The Garnavillo Property Maintenance Code is hereby amended by repealing
Sections 111.2 of the International Property Maintenance Code, 2024 Edition,
and by replacing said section with a new section, as follows:
   Section 111.2 Membership of board. The Board of Adjustment shall serve as
the board of appeals. The Code Official shall be an ex-officio member but shall
not vote on any matter before the board.
53.11   OVERCROWDING.
The Garnavillo Property Maintenance Code is hereby amended by adding a new
exception to Section 404.5 of the International Property Maintenance Code, 2024
Edition, as follows:
   Exception: The actual number of persons occupying a dwelling unit shall not
create conditions that, in the opinion of the Code Official, endanger the life,
health, safety, or welfare of the occupants.
53.12   NUISANCES.
A failure to satisfy any of the provisions of the Garnavillo Property
Maintenance Code shall constitute a nuisance.
53.13   NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any violation of the Garnavillo Property Maintenance Code,
the City shall within five (5) days initiate abatement procedures as outlined
in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances, or initiate proceedings for a municipal
infraction, or both.
53.14   EMERGENCY ABATEMENT MEASURES.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever in the judgement
of the Property Maintenance Official any nuisance is an immediate and imminent
threat to life and property, the Property Maintenance Official may, with or
without prior notice as required herein, order the nuisance abated and costs
assessed against the property for collection in the same manner as a property
tax. However, prior to such assessment, the City shall give the property owner
notice as provided by the Code of Iowa and this Code of Ordinances.
53.15   CODE ON FILE.
An official copy of the Garnavillo Property Maintenance Code hereby adopted,
including a certificate by the Clerk as to its adoption and the effective date
thereof, shall be on file in the office of the Clerk in City Hall and online at
the City web page and shall be kept there on file, and copies shall be
available for public inspection.
(Chapter 53 – Ord. 01-2024 – Nov. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL
55.01 Definitions                   55.12 Confinement
55.02 Animal Neglect                55.13 At Large: Impoundment
55.03 Livestock Neglect             55.14 Disposition of Animals
55.04 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs  55.15 Impounding Costs
55.05 Livestock                     55.16 Cleaning Up After Animals
55.06 At Large Prohibited           55.17 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.07 Damage or Interference        55.18 Tampering With A Rabies Vaccination
                                    Tag
55.08 Annoyance or Disturbance      55.19 Tampering With An Electronic Handling
                                    Device
55.09 Dangerous and Vicious Animals 55.20 Dog or Cat License Required
55.10 Rabies Vaccination            55.21 Feeding At Large Pet Animals
55.11 Owner’s Duty                 
 
55.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
   1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium,
including (but not limited to) print, radio, television, sign, display, label,
tag, or articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
   3.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain
dogs or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   4.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the
control of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in
a veterinary hospital or kennel.
   5.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
      A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
      B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
      C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
      D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
   6.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
   7.   “Dangerous animal” means (1) any animal that is not naturally tame or
gentle and which is of a wild nature or disposition, and which is capable of
killing, inflicting serious injury upon, or causing disease among, human beings
or domestic animals and having known tendencies as a species to do so; (2) any
animal that has previously attacked a pet or human; (3) any animal(s) declared
to be dangerous by the Council; (4) the following shall be deemed to be a
“dangerous animal” per se:
      A.   Lions, tigers, jaguars, leopards, cougars, lynx and bobcats;
      B.   Wolves, coyotes and foxes;
      C.   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, skunk and mink;
      D.   Raccoons and opossums;
      E.   Bears;
      F.   Monkey and chimpanzees;
      G.   Bats;
      H.   Alligators and crocodiles;
      I.   Scorpions;
      J.   Snakes that are venomous or constrictors;
      K.   Gila monsters;
      L.   Bees.
   8.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
      A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
      C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
   9.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in
Section 99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   10.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an
animal’s health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or
organ, or the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
   11.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
   12.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring an
animal.
   13.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   14.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   15.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine,
veterinary medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital,
diagnostic or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific
establishment situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or
instruction concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the
cause, prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human
beings or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
   16.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169
of the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
55.02   ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
      A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
      B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably
sufficient to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the
animal’s health or life is endangered.  Access to snow or ice does not satisfy
this requirement.
      C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
      D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate
protection from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age,
species, and physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a
state of good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered. The shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun
and have adequate bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and
dampness. A shelter may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
      E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent
adverse health effects or suffering.
      F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
         (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s
welfare as described in this section.
         (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal
to suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
   2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
         (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part
of the commercial establishment’s operation.
         (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as
described in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care
requirements provided in Section 162.10A[1] of the Code of Iowa, including any
applicable rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
applying to: (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section
162.10A[2a] or [2b] of the Code of Iowa; or (ii) a permittee operating pursuant
to Section 162.10A[2c] of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or
renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa, and performs functions
within the scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the
research facility.
55.03   LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place to
fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices, or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance, or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means that causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04   ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
   1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept
ownership and custody of the cat or dog.
   2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or pound or that has
been issued or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture
and Land Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
55.05   LIVESTOCK.
It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by written
consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations.
55.06   AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.07   DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.08   ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise, or by running after or chasing
persons, bicycles, automobiles, or other vehicles.
55.09   DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS.
It is unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a dangerous or vicious animal
within the City. An animal is deemed vicious when it has attacked or bitten any
person without provocation, or when propensity to attack or bite persons exists
and is known or ought reasonably to be known to the other owner.
55.10   RABIES VACCINATION.
Every owner of a dog or cat shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal.
It is unlawful for any person to own or have a dog or cat in said person’s
possession, six months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against
rabies. Dogs kept in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run
at large are not subject to these vaccination requirements. Veterinarians shall
maintain records and issue tags and certificates as required by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.11   OWNER’S DUTY.
It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal that has bitten or
attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.12   CONFINEMENT.
If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs. If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after 10 days the board may
humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to its owner, the owner
shall pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if a police
service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the
performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.13   AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
   1.   Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded at the impoundment facilities utilized by the City, or at the
discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served a summons to appear
before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
   2.   Pet owners that have their animals seized will be invoiced for charges
in relation to the seizure as follows:
      A.   There will be a $25.00 minimum charge for each seized animal.
      B.   There will be an additional charge of $6.00 per one-fourth hour (15
minutes) from the time it takes to seize the animal(s) and take it to the
impoundment facility until the time City staff reports back to City Hall after
turning the animal over to the impoundment facility.
      C.   Mileage set at the current IRS rate will be charged for all miles
driven to seize the animal, take it to the impoundment facility, and return to
City Hall.
      D.   All animal seizure fees will be sent to the pet owner by regular
mail or delivered by City staff. All fees are due within 30 days of the invoice
date. If fees are not paid within 30 days, the unpaid and delinquent fees shall
constitute a lien upon the pet owner’s property and shall be certified by the
City Administrator/Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same
manner as property taxes.
55.14   DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two days after impoundment, if the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal. Impounded animals may be recovered by
the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if an unvaccinated or
unlicensed dog or cat, by having it immediately vaccinated and licensed. If the
owner fails to redeem the animal within seven days from the date that the
notice is mailed, or if the owner cannot be located within seven days, the
animal shall be disposed of in accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37, 351.41)
55.15   IMPOUNDING COSTS.
Impounding costs are those set by the impoundment facility.
55.16   CLEANING UP AFTER ANIMALS.
It is the duty of every person owning or having custody or control of an animal
to clean up and remove the feces deposited by such animal at all times when
said animal is not on the owner’s premises. Such animal feces shall be disposed
of in a sanitary manner.
55.17   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717E)
   1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
      A.   A prize for participating in a game.
      B.   A prize for participating in a fair.
      C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
      D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract that includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care, or disposition of the pet.
   2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
      A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
      B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting, or fishing, including but not limited to the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.18   TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag
if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies
vaccination tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
      B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.19   TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
   1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
      A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
      B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached
to an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness,
or vest.
   2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
      A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized
to take action by the owner.
      B.   A peace officer.
      C.   A veterinarian.
      D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.20   DOG OR CAT LICENSE REQUIRED.
Every owner of a dog or cat over the age of six months being maintained or
harbored within the corporate limits of the City shall procure a pet license
from the City. Licenses must be applied for within 30 days of the date wherein
such a license would be required. Licenses issued shall be effective for a 1-
to 3 year period, based on the rabies vaccination schedule or certificate of
that dog or cat so produced.
   1.   License Requirements.
      A.   Every dog or cat over six months of age, shall have a current rabies
vaccination pursuant to Section
55.10. The failure to produce such certificate when so requested by the City
Administrator/Clerk shall be prima facie evidence that such animal has not been
vaccinated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
      B.   Payment of the fee, the schedule of licensing fees to be determined
by resolution of the Council.
   2.   License Records. The City Administrator/Clerk or designee shall
maintain a public record of each license issued containing the name of the dog/
cat’s owner, address, and description of the animal.
   3.   Issuance of License. Upon payment of the license fee, the City
Administrator/Clerk or designee shall issue to the owner a license which shall
contain the name of the owner, the owner’s place of residence and a description
of the dog/cat and such other reasonable information.
   4.   License Tags.
      A.   The metal rabies vaccination tag showing the name of the
veterinarian, the tag number, and the year of issuance, as required by State
Law, will serve as the required tag for the City license.
      B.   The license tag issued by the veterinarian shall be securely
fastened to a collar or harness which shall be worn at all times by the dog or
cat for which it was issued unless the animal is kept inside. It shall be
unlawful for any person other than the owner, unless at the request of the
owner, to remove the collar from the dog or cat.
      C.   A license issued for a dog or cat shall not be transferable to
another such animal. Upon the expiration of the license the owner shall remove
said tag from the dog or cat.
      D.   Any dog or cat found running at large without the license tag
attached to its collar or harness shall be deemed unlicensed.
      E.   The City Administrator/Clerk shall be notified immediately of all
lost or reissued tags.
   5.   Enforcement.
      A.   Veterinarians shall in no way be responsible for the enforcement of
the required licensing within the City. Enforcement of this chapter shall be
the responsibility of the City Administrator/Clerk.
      B.   Designated City officials enforcing the provisions of this chapter
relating to vaccination and impoundment of dogs/cats shall not be responsible
for any accident or disease of a dog or cat resulting from the enforcement of
the provisions of said chapter.
      C.   Impoundment and Disposition in regard to Section
55.13 and Section
55.14.
55.21   FEEDING AT LARGE PET ANIMALS
It shall be a violation of this chapter to feed animals which are defined as
pets pursuant to this chapter which are at large.
CHAPTER 56
URBAN CHICKENS
56.01 Purpose                     56.09 Odor and Noise Impacts
56.02 Definitions                 56.10 Predators, Rodents, Insects, and
                                  Parasites
56.03 Permit Required             56.11 Feed and Water
56.04 Issuance of Permit          56.12 Waste Storage and Removal
56.05 Number and Type of Chickens 56.13 Chickens At Large
Allowed
56.06 Tract of Land Allowed       56.14 Unlawful Acts
56.07 Non-Commercial Use Only     56.15 Nuisances
56.08 Enclosures                   
 
56.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to permit urban chickens in the City.
56.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Chicken” means a member of the subspecies Gallus gallus domesticus, a
domesticated fowl.
   2.   “Urban chicken” means a chicken kept on a permitted tract of land
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter.
   3.   “Permitted tract of land” means the tract of land as identified by the
application upon which a permit is granted for keeping chickens pursuant to
this chapter.
   4.   “Permittee” means an applicant who has been granted a permit to raise,
harbor or keep chickens pursuant to this chapter.
56.03   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Permit Required. No person shall raise, harbor, or keep chickens within
the City without a valid permit obtained from the City Administrator/Clerk
under the provisions of this chapter.
   2.   Application. In order to obtain a permit, an applicant must submit a
completed application on forms provided by the City Administrator/Clerk and
payment of all fees required by this chapter.
56.04   ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   1.   Issuance of Permit. If the City Administrator/Clerk concludes as a
result of the information contained in the application that the requirements
for a permit have been met, the City Administrator/Clerk shall issue the
permit.
   2.   Renewal of Permit. A permittee shall apply to renew his permit every 12
months.
   3.   Denial, Suspension, Revocation Non-renewal. The Council’s appointed
designee may deny, suspend, revoke, or decline to renew any permit issued for
any of the following grounds:
      A.   False statements on any application or other information or report
required by this section to be given by the applicants;
      B.   Failure to pay any application, penalty, re-inspection or
reinstatement fee required by this section or City Council resolution;
      C.   Failure to correct deficiencies noted in abatement notices in the
time specified in the notice;
      D.   Failure to comply with the provisions of an approved mitigation/
remediation plan by the City Council;
      E.   Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter.
   4.   Notification. A decision to revoke, suspend, deny, or not renew a
permit shall be in writing, delivered by ordinary mail or in person to the
address indicated on the application. The notification shall specify reason for
action.
   5.   Effect of Revocation. When an application for a permit is denied, or
when a permit is revoked, the applicant may not re-apply for a new permit for a
period of one year from the date of the denial or revocation.
   6.   Appeals. No permit may be denied, suspended, revoked, or not renewed
without notice and an opportunity to be heard is given the applicant or holder
of the permit. In any instance where the Council designee has denied, revoked,
suspended, or not renewed a permit, the applicant or holder of said permit may
appeal the decision to the Council within 10 business days of receipt by the
applicant or holder of the permit of the notice of the decision. The applicant
or holder of the permit will be given an opportunity for a hearing. The
decisions of the Council hearing the appeal, or any decision by the Council
designee which is not appealed in accordance to this chapter shall be deemed
final action.
56.05   NUMBER AND TYPE OF CHICKENS ALLOWED.
   1.   The maximum number of chickens allowed is 15 per tract of land.
   2.   Only female chickens (hens) are allowed.
   3.   In no case shall a permit be granted for greater that 15 chickens.
56.06   TRACT OF LAND ALLOWED.
Permits will be granted only for tracts of land located in residential and
agricultural districts as identified in the Code of Ordinances for the City.
56.07   NON-COMMERCIAL USE ONLY.
A permit shall not allow the permittee to engage in chicken breeding or
fertilizer production for commercial purposes.
56.08   ENCLOSURES.
   1.   Chickens must be kept in an enclosure of sturdy wire fencing at all
times. Chickens shall be secured within a henhouse or chicken tractor during
non-daylight hours.
   2.   Enclosures must be kept in a clean, dry, odor-free, neat, and sanitary
condition at all times.
   3.   Henhouses, chicken tractors and chicken pens must provide adequate
ventilation and adequate sun and shade and must be impermeable to rodents, wild
birds, and predators, including dogs and cats.
      A.   Henhouse and chicken tractors. Henhouses and chicken tractors shall
be designed to provide safe and healthy living conditions for the chickens with
a minimum of four square feet per bird while minimizing adverse impacts to
other residents in the neighborhood.
      B.   A henhouse or chicken tractor shall be enclosed on all sides and
shall have a roof and doors. Access doors must be able to be shut and locked at
night. Opening windows and vents must be covered with predator and bird proof
wire of less than one inch openings.
      C.   The materials used in making a henhouse or chicken tractor shall be
uniform for each element of the structure such that the walls are made of the
same material, the roof has the same shingles or other covering, and any
windows or openings are constructed using the same materials. The use of scrap,
waste board, sheet metal, or similar materials is prohibited. Henhouses and
chicken tractors shall be well maintained.
      D.   Henhouses, chicken tractors and chicken pens shall only be located
in the rear yard required by this Code unless the setback requirements cannot
be met, in which case they may be kept in a side yard but within the required
setbacks. No henhouse, chicken tractor, or chicken pen shall be allowed in any
front yard.
      E.   Henhouses, chicken tractors and chicken pens must conform to the
existing City Code pertaining to structures in the applicable zoned district.
56.09   ODOR AND NOISE IMPACTS.
   1.   Odors from chickens, chicken manure, or other chicken related
substances shall not be perceptible beyond the boundaries of the permitted
tract of land.
   2.   Noise from chickens shall not be loud enough beyond the boundaries of
the permitted tract of land at the property boundaries to disturb persons of
reasonable sensitivity.
56.10   PREDATORS, RODENTS, INSECTS, AND PARASITES.
The permittee shall take necessary action to reduce the attraction of predators
and rodents and the potential infestation of insects and parasites. Chickens
found to be infested with insects and parasites that may result in unhealthy
conditions to human habitation may be removed by a person designated by the
Council with the assistance of City policy, if necessary.
56.11   FEED AND WATER.
Chickens shall be provided with access to feed and clean water at all times.
The feed and water shall not be available to rodents, wild birds, and
predators.
56.12   WASTE STORAGE AND REMOVAL.
The henhouse, chicken tractor, chicken pen, and surrounding area must be kept
free from trash and accumulated droppings. Uneaten feed shall be removed in a
timely manner.
56.13   CHICKENS AT LARGE.
The permittee shall not allow the permittee’s chickens to roam off the
permitted tract of land. No dog, cat, or other domesticated animal which kills
a chicken off the permitted tract of land will, for that reason alone, be
considered a dangerous or aggressive animal or the City’s responsibility to
enforce its animal control provisions.
56.14   UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep chicken in violation of any
provision of this chapter or any other provision of the City Code.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, renter, or lease holder of property
to allow chickens to be kept on the property in violation of the provisions of
this chapter.
   3.   No person shall keep chickens inside a single-family dwelling unit,
multi-family dwelling unit(s), or rental unit.
   4.   No person shall slaughter any chickens within the City.
   5.   No person shall keep a rooster.
   6.   No person shall keep chickens on a vacant or uninhabited tract of land.
56.15   NUISANCES.
Any violation of the terms of this chapter that constitutes a health hazard or
that interferes with the use or enjoyment of neighboring property is a nuisance
and may be abated under the general nuisance abatement provision of Chapter 50
of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic        60.08 Parades Regulated
 
60.01   TITLE.
Chapters
60 through
70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the “Garnavillo Traffic
Code” (and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code”).
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
   1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including the
following designated streets:
Main Street from the northern corporate line to the southern corporate line
   2.   “MPH” means miles per hour.
   3.   “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or vehicles organized
for marching or moving on the streets in an organized fashion or manner or any
march or procession of persons or vehicles represented or advertised to the
public as a parade.
   4.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   5.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   6.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban, or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
   7.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a schoolhouse.
   8.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
   9.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
   10.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   11.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in
the business, school, or residence districts.
   12.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and
devices not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   13.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or
alley.
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the Police Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer or, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the Fire
Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event of an
emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading, or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08   PARADES REGULATED.
No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
   1.   Permit Required. No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining a
written permit from the City and applicable IDOT and County agencies written
permits. Such permit shall state the time and date for the parade to be held
and the streets or general route therefor. Such written permit granted to the
person organizing or sponsoring the parade shall be permission for all
participants therein to parade when such participants have been invited by the
permittee to participate therein.
   2.   Parade Not A Street Obstruction. Any parade for which a permit has been
issued as herein required, and the persons lawfully participating therein,
shall not be deemed an obstruction of the streets notwithstanding the
provisions of any other ordinance to the contrary.
   3.   Control by Police and Firefighters. Persons participating in any parade
shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in the
performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01   INSTALLATION.
The Council shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control devices
when and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or emergency or
temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency or temporary
condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or warn traffic.
The Council shall keep a record of all such traffic control devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02   CROSSWALKS.
The Council is hereby authorized to designate and maintain crosswalks by
appropriate traffic control devices at intersections where, due to traffic
conditions, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street or
roadway, and at such other places as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.03   TRAFFIC LANES.
The Council is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street pavements
at such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with this Traffic
Code. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.04   STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05   COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 and
321.231A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Engine Back-Pressure Brakes Prohibited
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle       
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
   1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
   2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
   3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
   4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
   5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
   6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
   7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
   8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
   9.   Section 321.91 – Limitation on liability; penalty for abandonment.
   10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
   11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
   12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
   13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
   14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed; operation of commercial
vehicles.
   15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicle with expired license.
   16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits, commercial learner’s permits,
and chauffeur’s instruction permits.
   17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged
fourteen through seventeen.
   18.   Section 321.193 – Restrictions on licenses; penalty.
   19.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ licenses.
   20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order;
penalties.
   21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card; penalty.
   22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
   23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
   24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified; penalties.
   25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
   26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
   27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
   28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
   29.   Section 321.223 – Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle
rental.
   30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
   31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
   32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles, highway use.
   33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
   34.   Section 321.235B – Low-speed electric bicycles.
   35.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
   36.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
   37.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
   38.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals;
unlawful possession; traffic signal preemption devices.
   39.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited;
vehicle damage only; removal of vehicles.
   40.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid; leaving scene of personal
injury accident.
   41.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
   42.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
   43.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
   44.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
   45.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while
driving; text-messaging.
   46.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
   47.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
   48.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
   49.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
   50.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles, drivers.
   51.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles, passengers.
   52.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
   53.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
   54.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
   55.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
   56.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
   57.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
   58.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
   59.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
   60.   Section 321.305 – One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands.
   61.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
   62.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
   63.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
   64.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
   65.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
   66.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
   67.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
   68.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
   69.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
   70.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
   71.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
   72.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
   73.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
   74.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
   75.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
   76.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
   77.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
   78.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
   79.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
   80.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
   81.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
   82.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
   83.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
   84.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
   85.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
   86.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
   87.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
   88.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
   89.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
   90.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
   91.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
   92.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
   93.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
   94.   Section 321.364 – Preventing contamination of food by hazardous
material.
   95.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
   96.   Section 321.366 – Acts prohibited on fully-controlled access
facilities.
   97.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
   98.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
   99.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
   100.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
   101.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
   102.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils, stopping requirements;
penalties.
   103.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
   104.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
   105.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
   106.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
   107.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
   108.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
   109.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles, motorized bicycles, and
all-terrain vehicles.
   110.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
   111.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
   112.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
   113.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
   114.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
   115.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
   116.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
   117.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
   118.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
   119.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
   120.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
   121.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
   122.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
   123.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
   124.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
   125.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
   126.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
   127.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
   128.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
   129.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
   130.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
   131.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
   132.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front, rear lights.
   133.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
   134.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
   135.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
   136.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
   137.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, air horns, and bells prohibited.
   138.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
   139.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
   140.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
   141.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
   142.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
   143.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
   144.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
   145.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
   146.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
   147.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
   148.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
   149.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
   150.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
   151.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while
operating a commercial motor vehicle.
   152.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
   153.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
   154.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
   155.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
   156.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
   157.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
   158.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
   159.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
   160.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
   161.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight; exceptions, penalties.
   162.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
   163.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
The Mayor shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play
street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard, or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
62.07   ENGINE BACK-PRESSURE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
No person operating a motor vehicle within the City shall use an engine back-
pressure braking system or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the
braking or deceleration of the motor vehicle. The fine shall be set at $50.00
for first offense and $100.00 for second and each additional offense.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                             63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits             63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries, and Parking Lots
 
 
63.01   GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
   1.   Business District – 20 MPH.
   2.   Residence or School District – 25 MPH.
   3.   Suburban District – 45 MPH.
63.03   PARKS, CEMETERIES, AND PARKING LOTS.
A speed in excess of 15 MPH in any public park, cemetery, or parking lot,
unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
   1.   Special 15 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 15 MPH is unlawful in
the school district when children are present.
   2.   Special 30 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 30 MPH is unlawful on
Main Street north of Watson Street as posted.
63.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Left Turn for Parking
64.02 U-Turns
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
   1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
The Council may cause markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions
require, that a different course from that specified above be traveled by
vehicles turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so
placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons, or signs.
64.02   U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection;
however, U-turns are prohibited within the Business District at the following
designated intersections and at intersections where there are automatic traffic
signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
   1.   Main Street (U.S. No. 52) and its intersection with any street from the
north corporate line to the south corporate line.
64.03   LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
No person shall make a left hand turn, crossing the centerline of the street,
for the purpose of parking on said street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Through Streets             65.05 School Stops
65.02 Stop Required               65.06 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.03 Four-Way Stop Intersections 65.07 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.04 Yield Required              65.08 Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks
 
65.01   THROUGH STREETS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop, unless a yield is permitted by this
chapter, before entering an intersection with the following designated through
streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Centre Street, from Main Street to the westernmost City limits.
   2.   Main Street, from the northernmost City limits to the southernmost City
limits.
   3.   Van Buren Street, from Main Street to the easternmost City limits.
65.02   STOP REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Adams Court. Vehicles traveling south on Adams Court shall stop at
Industrial Road.
   2.   Adams Street. Vehicles traveling north on Adams Street shall stop at
Centre Street.
   3.   Adams Street. Vehicles traveling north on Adams Street shall stop at
Harrison Street.
   4.   Adams Street. Vehicles traveling north on Adams Street shall stop at
Mechanic Street.
   5.   Adams Street. Vehicles traveling north on Adams Street shall stop at
Niagara Street.
   6.   Adams Street. Vehicles traveling north on Adams Street shall stop at
Van Buren Street.
   7.   Adams Street. Vehicles traveling south on Adams Street shall stop at
Centre Street.
   8.   Adams Street. Vehicles traveling north on Adams Street shall stop at
Harrison Street.
   9.   Adams Street. Vehicles traveling north on Adams Street shall stop at
Mechanic Street.
   10.   Adams Street. Vehicles traveling north on Adams Street shall stop at
Niagara Street.
   11.   Adams Street. Vehicles traveling north on Adams Street shall stop at
Van Buren Street.
   12.   Benton Street. Vehicles traveling north on Benton Street shall stop at
Van Buren Street.
   13.   Centre Street. Vehicles traveling south from Middle School shall stop
at Centre Street.
   14.   Centre Street. Vehicles traveling west on Centre Street shall stop at
Roosevelt Street.
   15.   Chestnut Street. Vehicles traveling east on Chestnut Street shall stop
at Adams Street.
   16.   Chestnut Street. Vehicles traveling west on Chestnut Street shall stop
at Adams Street.
   17.   Clayton Street. Vehicles traveling west on Clayton Street shall stop
at Washington Street.
   18.   Houston Street. Vehicles traveling north on Houston Street shall stop
at Van Buren Street.
   19.   Houston Street. Vehicles traveling south on Houston Street shall stop
at Mechanic Street.
   20.   Industrial Park Road. Vehicles traveling south from G and G building
shall stop before going onto Industrial Park Road.
   21.   Lincoln Street. Vehicles traveling north on Lincoln Street shall stop
at Clayton Street.
   22.   Lincoln Street. Vehicles traveling south on Lincoln Street shall stop
at Industrial Road.
   23.   McKinley Street. Vehicles traveling north on McKinley Street shall
stop at Centre Street.
   24.   Mechanic Street. Vehicles traveling west on Mechanic Street shall stop
at Monroe Street.
   25.   Meier Court. Vehicles traveling east on Meier Court shall stop at
Adams Court.
   26.   Monroe Street. Vehicles traveling north on Monroe Street shall stop at
Chestnut Street.
   27.   Monroe Street. Vehicles traveling north on Monroe Street shall stop at
Niagara Street.
   28.   Monroe Street. Vehicles traveling north on Monroe Street shall stop at
Van Buren Street.
   29.   Monroe Street. Vehicles traveling north on Monroe Street shall stop at
Watson Street.
   30.   Monroe Street. Vehicles traveling south on Monroe Street shall stop at
Chestnut Street.
   31.   Monroe Street. Vehicles traveling south on Monroe Street shall stop at
Clayton Street.
   32.   Monroe Street. Vehicles traveling south on Monroe Street shall stop at
Niagara Street.
   33.   Monroe Street. Vehicles traveling south on Monroe Street shall stop at
Van Buren Street.
   34.   Monroe Street. Vehicles traveling south on Monroe Street shall stop at
Watson Street.
   35.   Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling east on Niagara Street shall stop
at Roosevelt Street.
   36.   Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling east on Niagara Street shall stop
at Rutland Street.
   37.   Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling east on Niagara Street shall stop
at Washington Street.
   38.   Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling west on Niagara Street shall stop
at Roosevelt Street.
   39.   Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling west on Niagara Street shall stop
at Rutland Street.
   40.   Niagara Street. Vehicles traveling west on Niagara Street shall stop
at Washington Street.
   41.   Oak Street. Vehicles traveling east on Oak Street shall stop at Monroe
Street.
   42.   Oak Street. Vehicles traveling east on Oak Street shall stop at
Washington Street.
   43.   Oak Street. Vehicles traveling west on Oak Street shall stop at Monroe
Street.
   44.   Oak Street. Vehicles traveling west on Oak Street shall stop at
Washington Street.
   45.   Rolling Hills Court. Vehicles traveling north on Rolling Hills Court
shall stop at South Industrial Park Road eastern intersection.
   46.   Rolling Hills Court. Vehicles traveling north on Rolling Hills Court
shall stop at South Industrial Park Road western intersection.
   47.   Roosevelt Street. Vehicles traveling south on Roosevelt Street shall
stop at Van Buren Street.
   48.   Rutland Street. Vehicles traveling north on Rutland Street shall stop
at Centre Street.
   49.   Rutland Street. Vehicles traveling south on Rutland Street shall stop
at Watson Street.
   50.   Van Buren Street. Vehicles traveling west on Van Buren Street shall
stop at Rutland Street.
   51.   Watson Street. Vehicles traveling east on Watson Street shall stop at
Adams Street.
   52.   Watson Street. Vehicles traveling east on Watson Street shall stop at
Homestead Street.
   53.   Watson Street. Vehicles traveling west on Watson Street shall stop at
Adams Street.
   54.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling north on Washington Street shall
stop at Centre Street.
   55.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling north on Washington Street shall
stop at Chestnut Street.
   56.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling north on Washington Street shall
stop at Harrison Street.
   57.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling north on Washington Street shall
stop at Mechanic Street.
   58.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling north on Washington Street shall
stop at Niagara Street.
   59.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling north on Washington Street shall
stop at Oak Street.
   60.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling north on Washington Street shall
stop at Van Buren Street.
   61.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling south on Washington Street shall
stop at Centre Street.
   62.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling south on Washington Street shall
stop at Chestnut Street.
   63.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling south on Washington Street shall
stop at Harrison Street.
   64.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling south on Washington Street shall
stop at Mechanic Street.
   65.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling south on Washington Street shall
stop at Niagara Street.
   66.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling south on Washington Street shall
stop at Oak Street.
   67.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling south on Washington Street shall
stop at South Industrial Park Road.
   68.   Washington Street. Vehicles traveling south on Washington Street shall
stop at Van Buren Street.
65.03   FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the following designated
four-way stop intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Intersection of Monroe Street and Centre Street.
   2.   Intersection of Watson Street and Roosevelt Street.
   3.   Intersection of Watson Street and Washington Street.
65.04   YIELD REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
   1.   Adams Street. Vehicles traveling south on Adams Street shall yield at
Oak Street.
   2.   Rutland Street. Vehicles traveling north on Rutland Street shall yield
at Harrison Street.
   3.   Rutland Street. Vehicles traveling south on Rutland Street shall yield
at Harrison Street.
   4.   Rutland Street. Vehicles traveling south on Rutland Street shall yield
at Oak Street.
65.05   SCHOOL STOPS.
At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
   1.   Intersection of Centre Street and Washington Street. The sign will be
placed from 7:30 a.m. to 8:15 a.m. and from 3:00 p.m. to 3:45 p.m. These times
may be adjusted for late start and early out scenarios.
   2.   Intersection of Main Street and Centre Street.
   3.   Washington Street between Centre Street and Watson Street will be
closed to traffic from 7:45 a.m. to 8:15 a.m. when school is in session to
allow for loading and unloading of students. These items may be adjusted for
late start and early out scenarios.
65.06   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.07   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.08   YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or
within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.05 Truck Routes
66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets    
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow, or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 and 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The Police Chief may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a
special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the
maximum specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named
in the permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the
City is responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 321E.2)
66.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 475)
- NONE -
66.04   LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than the
maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Police Chief may cause to be posted and maintained signs on said
bridge and at suitable distances ahead of the entrances thereof to warn drivers
of such maximum load limits. No person shall drive upon said bridge any vehicle
weighing, loaded, or unloaded, in excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
66.05   TRUCK ROUTES.
Truck route regulations are hereby established, in accordance with
Chapter 61, as follows:
   1.   Truck Routes Designated. Every motor vehicle weighing five tons or
more, when loaded or empty, having no fixed terminal within the City or making
no scheduled or definite stops within the City for the purpose of loading or
unloading shall travel over or upon those streets within the City designated by
resolution of the Council as truck routes and none other:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   2.   Deliveries Off Truck Route. Any motor vehicle, when loaded or empty,
having a fixed terminal, making a scheduled or definite stop within the City
for the purpose of loading or unloading shall proceed over or upon the
designated routes to the nearest point of its scheduled or definite stop and
shall proceed thereto, load or unload, and return by the most direct route to
its point of departure from said designated route.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   3.   Employer’s Responsibility. The owner, or any other person, employing or
otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle shall not require or knowingly
permit the operation of such vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to
this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473)
   4.   Resident Exception. Residents whose occupation requires the storage of
vehicles weighing over five tons may travel the most direct route to their
property to store their motor vehicle, however, motor vehicles shall be stored
off the City right-of-way, unless special permission has been obtained under
Section 69.10(2) of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking       67.04 Use of Sidewalks
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
67.04   USE OF SIDEWALKS.
Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent street.
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
Upon the following streets and alleys, vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[4])
- NONE -
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb                69.08 No Parking Zones
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets           69.09 All Night Parking Prohibited
69.03 Angle Parking                        69.10 Truck Parking Limited
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking              69.11 Snow Removal
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes Illegal 69.12 School Parking
69.06 Parking Prohibited                   69.13 Daycare Center Parking
69.07 Persons with Disabilities Parking     
 
69.01   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   ANGLE PARKING.
Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
   1.   East side of Rutland Street – Niagara Street to Van Buren Street;
   2.   North side of Niagara Street – Main Street to Washington Street;
   3.   North side of Oak Street – Washington Street to Adams Street;
   4.   North side of West Van Buren Street – Main Street to 1st Alley;
   5.   South side of Centre Street – Main Street to Monroe Street;
   6.   South side of Niagara Street – Adams Street to Rutland Street;
   7.   West side of Adams Street – Niagara Street to Van Buren Street;
   8.   West side of Adams Street – Watson Street to Harrison Street.
   9.   West side of Washington Street – Chestnut Street to Oak Street;
   10.   West side of Washington Street – Oak Street to Clayton Street;
69.04   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets that have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle or the load thereon, when
said vehicle is parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into
the roadway more than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to
the adjacent curb or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 72 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency.
   3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising.
   4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a
duly established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code
of Ordinances.
69.06   PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[5])
   2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox that is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[1])
   5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[2])
   6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an
intersection of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[3])
   7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[4])
   8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[6])
   9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[8])
   10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[9])
   11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[10])
   12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[11])
   13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[13])
   14.   Churches, Nursing Homes, and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is
hereby reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium,
hotel having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab
stand, bus depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people
are being held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor
vehicle shall be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or
discharging passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is
necessary for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
   15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection do not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley that is 18 feet wide
or less, provided that said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
   17.   Area Between Lot Line and Curb Line. That area of the public way not
covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and the curb line, where
curbing has been installed.
   18.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any
part of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.07   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
   1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
   2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4[2])
      A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit.
      B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or
being transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section
321L.8 of the Code of Iowa.
   3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
      A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must
comply with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when
utilizing a wheelchair parking cone.
      B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone that is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08   NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any of the following
specifically designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace
officer or traffic control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Centre Street from Adams Street to west City limits.
   2.   East side of Main Street from the centerline of East Van Buren Street
south 115 feet;
   3.   East side of Main Street from Van Buren Street to Clayton Street;
   4.   East side of Main Street (Highway 52) from centerline of East Van Buren
Street north 70 feet.
   5.   Lincoln Street, the entire length of the street;
   6.   North Main Street from Watson Street north to 409 North Main Street;
   7.   Rolling Hills Court on the right side of the street entering east
entrance and on the left side of the street entering west entrance;
   8.   South Roosevelt Street, both sides from East Van Buren Street to the
north side of East Niagara Street between the hours of 6:00 a.m. until 10:00
p.m. each day.
   9.   Van Buren Street from Monroe Street to Roosevelt Street;
   10.   West side of Main Street from Niagara Street south 54 feet from the
yellow curb marking;
   11.   West side of Main Street from Van Buren Street to Clayton Street;
   12.   West side of Main Street (Highway 52) from centerline of West Van
Buren Street north 70 feet;
69.09   ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
No person, except physicians or other persons on emergency calls, shall park a
vehicle on any of the following named streets between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 7:00 a.m., October 1 to April 1.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Main Street, from Mechanic Street to Watson Street.
69.10   TRUCK PARKING LIMITED.
No person shall park a motor truck, semi-trailer, or other motor vehicle with
trailer attached in violation of the following regulations. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to pick-up, light delivery, or panel delivery
trucks.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   1.   Highway 52. Excepting only when such vehicles are actually engaged in
the delivery or receiving of merchandise or cargo within the prohibited area,
no person shall park or leave unattended such vehicle on Highway 52 and except
for the 30-minute parking area on the south side of the park. When actually
receiving or delivering merchandise or cargo such vehicle shall be stopped or
parked in a manner which will not interfere with other traffic.
   2.   Semi-Tractor Trailers. No person shall park or leave unattended a semi-
tractor or semi-trailer in any area of the City lying outside of Highway 52 for
a period not to exceed 60 minutes, which period may be extended by the express
permission of the Police Chief.
69.11   SNOW REMOVAL.
No person shall park, abandon, or leave unattended any vehicle on any public
street, alley, or City-owned off-street parking area during snow removal
operations unless the snow has been removed or plowed from said street, alley
or parking area and the snow has ceased to fall.
(Code of Iowa, 321.236[1])
69.12   SCHOOL PARKING.
No person shall park any vehicle on the following streets, or parts of streets,
between the hours of 12:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. when school is in session:
   1.   Centre Street, on the north side, from Adams Street to Washington
Street.
69.13   DAYCARE CENTER PARKING.
No person shall park any vehicle on Watson Street in between the posted signs
adjacent to the daycare center for more than 10 minutes on Monday through
Friday each week between 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
   1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate; or
   2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate
a combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner
of Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code that are designated by Section 805.8A of the
Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of those
violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
70.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine payable at the
office of the City Administrator/Clerk. The owner or operator of any vehicle
who received a simple notice of a fine, either personally or by the attaching
of such notice to the vehicle, that the vehicle is in violation of the
ordinances of the City shall pay to the City a fine for such violation as
follows:
   1.   For all violations of designated person with disabilities parking
spaces, the sum of $100.00.
   2.   For all violations of snow removal ordinances as stated in Sections
69.09 and 69.11 of this Code of Ordinances, the sum of $35.00.
   3.   For all other violations, the sum of $15.00.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b] and 321L.4[2])
70.04   PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred shall be raised by proof that:
   1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information
was parked in violation of the Traffic Code; and
   2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   1.   A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed,
a vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot, or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
      A.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
      B.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is
so illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
      C.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban
on parking during snow removal operations.
      D.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for
a continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can
be located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
   2.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or
driver of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and
storage.
CHAPTER 74
GOLF CARTS
 
74.01 Purpose                           74.06 Hours
74.02 Definition                        74.07 Speed
74.03 Operation of Golf Carts Permitted 74.08 Permits
74.04 Prohibited Streets                74.09 Violation and Penalty
74.05 Equipment                         74.10 Revocation of Operating
                                        Privileges
 
74.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to permit the operation of golf carts on certain
streets in the City, as authorized by Section 321.247 of the Code of Iowa, as
amended. This chapter applies whenever a golf cart is operated on any street or
alley, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
74.02   DEFINITION.
“Golf cart” means a three-or four-wheeled recreational vehicle generally used
for transportation of person(s) in the sport of golf, that is limited in engine
displacement of less than 800 cubic centimeters and total dry weight of less
than 800 pounds. This shall not include any class or type of ATV.
74.03   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS PERMITTED.
Golf carts may be operated upon the streets of the City by persons possessing a
valid State operator’s license, and at least 18 years of age, except as
prohibited in Section 74.04 of this chapter.
74.04   PROHIBITED STREETS.
Golf carts shall not be operated upon any City street which is a primary road
extension through the City. However, golf carts may cross such a primary road
extension. All of Highway 52 (Main Street) and Van Buren Street from Main
Street east to the City limits are hereby designated as primary road extensions
in the City.
74.05   EQUIPMENT.
Golf carts operated upon any street shall be equipped with at least the
following:
   1.   A slow-moving vehicle sign.
   2.   A bicycle safety flag, the top of which shall be a minimum of five feet
from ground level.
   3.   Adequate brakes.
74.06   HOURS.
Golf carts may be operated on City streets only between sunrise and sunset.
74.07   SPEED.
No golf carts shall be operated on any City street at a speed in excess of 25
miles per hour.
74.08   PERMITS.
No person shall operate a golf cart on any public street or alley for any
purpose unless the owner of the golf cart has been issued a City permit to
operate the golf cart on City streets, issued by the City Administrator/Clerk.
   1.   Golf cart owners may apply for a permit on forms provided by the City.
   2.   The City Administrator/Clerk shall not issue a permit until the owner/
operator has provided the following:
      A.   Evidence that the operator is at least 18 years of age, and
possesses a valid driver’s license. A copy of applicant’s driver’s license will
be obtained for the file.
      B.   Proof owner/operator has liability insurance covering operation of
golf carts on City streets.
      C.   The owner/operator must bring the golf cart to City Hall to be
inspected.
   3.   All permits shall be issued for a specific golf cart. Permit holders
will be issued a number and will be required to purchase three-inch minimum
reflective numbers to affix to the left side rear fender and left side front
fender.
   4.   The fee for such permits shall be $25.00. Permits will be granted for
one year valid from January 1 through December 31. Permits may be purchased at
any time during the year but will be valid only through December 31.
   5.   The permit may be suspended or revoked upon receipt of sufficient
evidence that the permit holder has violated the conditions of the permit or
has abused the privilege of being a permit holder. There will be no refund of
the permit fee in the event of revocation or suspension.
74.09   VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   1.   Any person guilty of violating the provisions herein shall be guilty of
a simple misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of $100.00 and revocation
of the City permit for a period of two months.
   2.   Any person guilty of violating this chapter two times in a 12-month
period herein shall be guilty of a simple misdemeanor and shall be subject to a
fine of $200.00 and revocation of the City permit for a period of two years.
   3.   Any person guilty of violating this chapter three times in a 12-month
period shall be guilty of a simple misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
of $300.00 and permanent revocation of the City permit.
74.10   REVOCATION OF OPERATING PRIVILEGES.
Any person that has their golf cart operation permit revoked shall turn their
permit into City Hall within five days after receiving the notice of
revocation. Upon revocation, the permit holder shall remove and destroy the
permit identification number stickers on their golf cart and provide proof of
such destruction to the City Administrator/Clerk.
CHAPTER 75
ATVS, UTVS, AND SNOWMOBILES
 
75.01 Purpose                  75.06 Operation of UTVs
75.02 Definitions              75.07 Hours of Operation
75.03 General Regulations      75.08 Speed Limit
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles 75.09 Negligence
75.05 Operation of ATVs        75.10 Accident Reports
 
75.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles, off-road utility vehicles, and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat
or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but which contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” or “UTV” means a motorized vehicle, with not
less than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks,
that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled
by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road
utility vehicle” or “UTV” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
      A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
      B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” includes vehicles, other than
Type 1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of
65 inches or less.
      C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” includes vehicles with a total
dry weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or
both.
   An operator of an UTV is also subject to the provisions of this chapter
governing the operation of ATVs.
   4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000
pounds, that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a
width of 48 inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and
is designed for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-
terrain vehicle that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type
tracks, or treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   1.   No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle, or off-road
utility vehicle within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of
Iowa or a snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter
321G of the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural
Resource Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their
registration, equipment, and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G and Ch. 321I)
   2.   UTVs shall be registered with the Iowa Department of Natural Resources
and may not be operated without a properly displayed registration decal.
   3.   No ATVs, UTVs, or snowmobiles may be operated in violation of the
following:
      A.   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or cause injury or damage thereto.
      B.   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotics or
habit-forming drugs as prescribed under Chapter 3211 of the Code of Iowa.
      C.   Without a lighted headlight, taillight, and turn signals (if so
equipped by the manufacturer) to render clearly discernible persons and
vehicles at a distance of 500 feet ahead and back and have a minimum one mirror
to allow visibility to a minimum distance of 200 feet behind the vehicle.
      D.   Without an approved helmet for riders under the age of 16 years old.
      E.   Without a seatbelt or harness as so equipped by the manufacturer for
the operator and riders of a UTV.
      F.   Without a valid IDNR Certification for Off-Road UTV education court
for operators under the age of 18.
      G.   Any person operating a UTV, ATV, or snowmobile with a firearm in the
operator’s possession, shall abide by any applicable State laws during the time
this ordinance is in effect.
      H.   A person shall not operate a UTV, ATV, or snowmobile with more
persons on the vehicle than it was designated to carry.
75.04   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. Snowmobiles shall be operated upon the following designated
streets:
      A.   Washington Street;
      B.   Monroe Street;
      C.   Harrison Street between Washington Street and Monroe Street, except
on Main Street;
      D.   Centre Street between Main Street and Monroe Street, and Centre
Street between the west City limits and Washington Street;
      E.   Niagara Street between Washington Street and Main Street;
      F.   Clayton Street between Washington Street and Monroe Street, except
on Main Street.
   2.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only
under the following circumstances:
      A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
      B.   Residents. Residents of the City may take the most direct route from
their places of residence to the designated route.
      C.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a
prohibited street provided all of the following occur:
         (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
         (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
         (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
   3.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all ATV or UTV trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f])
   4.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
   5.   Liability Insurance. No person shall operate a snowmobile on City
streets or any other City-owned property unless there is in effect for the
snowmobile an owner’s policy of liability insurance which is issued by an
insurance carrier authorized to do business in the State to, or for the benefit
of, the person named in the policy as insured and the insuring of the person
named as the insured and any person using the snowmobile with the express or
implied permission of the named insured against loss from liability imposed by
law for damages arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or use of an insured
snowmobile in the amounts not less than the minimum limits specified for motor
vehicles in Section 321A.21 of the Code of Iowa. Proof of insurance must be in
possession of the operator of the snowmobile during all times of operation.
75.05   OPERATION OF ATVS.
The operators of ATVs shall comply with the following restrictions as to where
ATVs may be operated within the City:
   1.   Streets. ATVs may be operated on streets only in accordance with
Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa or on such streets as may be designated by
resolution of the Council for the operation of registered ATVs. In designating
such streets, the Council may authorize to stop at service stations or
convenience stores along a designated street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 and 3])
   2.   Trails. ATVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except where
designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
   3.   Railroad Right-of-Way. ATVs shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way. An ATV may be driven directly across a railroad right-
of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other provisions
of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the established crossing
after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])
   4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs shall not be operated in any park,
playground, or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City.
   5.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
   6.   Snow Removal. ATVs shall be allowed on streets and sidewalks when used
for snow removal purposes.
   7.   Liability Insurance. No person shall operate an ATV on City streets or
any other City-owned property unless there is in effect for the ATV an owner’s
policy of liability insurance which is issued by an insurance carrier
authorized to do business in the State to, or for the benefit of, the person
named in the policy as insured and the insuring of the person named as the
insured and any person using the ATV with the express or implied permission of
the named insured against loss from liability imposed by law for damages
arising out of the ownership, maintenance or use of an insured ATV in the
amounts not less than the minimum limits specified for motor vehicles in
Section 321A.21 of the Code of Iowa. Proof of insurance must be in possession
of the operator of the ATV during all times of operation.
75.06   OPERATION OF UTVS.
   1.   The operators of UTVs shall comply with the following restrictions as
to where they may be operated within the City:
      A.   Streets. UTVs may be operated on any public streets within the City
according to the route as allowed by resolution of the Council and where signs
have been erected designating allowable streets along the route. Operation of
UTVs on streets within the City is also subject to the requirements of Section
3211.10 of the Code of Iowa. Crossings of State Highways on the designated
route must receive Iowa Department of Transportation approval prior to such
travel, if required by the Code of Iowa.
      B.   Traffic Laws Applicable. While being operated on City streets, UTVs
are deemed to be motor vehicles subject to all provisions of this Code of
Ordinances relating to the operation of motor vehicles, except as may be
modified by this chapter. No person shall operate a UTV on City streets without
a valid driver’s license (driver’s permits are not sufficient for this
requirement).
      C.   Liability Insurance. No person shall operate a UTV on City streets
or any other City­ owned property unless there is in effect for the UTV an
owner’s policy of liability insurance which is issued by an insurance carrier
authorized to do business in the State to, or for the benefit of, the person
named in the policy as insured and the insuring of the person named as the
insured and any person using the UTV with the express or implied permission of
the named insured against loss from liability imposed by law for damages
arising out of the ownership, maintenance or use of an insured UTV in the
amounts not less than the minimum limits specified for motor vehicles in
Section 321A.21 of the Code of Iowa. Proof of insurance must be in possession
of the operator of the UTV during all times of operation.
      D.   Exceptions. UTVs may be operated on prohibited streets only under
the following circumstances:
         (1)   Direct Crossing. UTVs may make a direct crossing of a prohibited
street provided:
            a.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees
to the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
            b.   The UTV is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
            c.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic
which constitutes an immediate hazard; and
            d.   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 3211.10, 321G.9[2])
      E.   Railroad Right-of-Way. UTVs shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way. A UTV may be driven directly across a railroad right-of-
way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other provisions of
law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the established crossing
after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 3211.10, 321G.13 [lh])
      F.   Trails. UTVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except where
so designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4f and g])
      G.   Parks and Other City Land. UTVs shall not be operated in any park,
playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express permission
of the City.
      H.   Sidewalk or Boulevard. UTVs shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
      I.   Ride to Right. All operators of UTVs shall ride as near the right-
hand side of the traveled portion of the street or alley as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction, and shall ride in the direction of normal traffic.
      J.   Near Church, School, or Funeral Home. Operation is prohibited at any
time in the immediate vicinity of a church or funeral parlor if services are
being held or in the immediate vicinity of a school if school is in session.
75.07   HOURS OF OPERATION.  
No snowmobile, ATV, or UTV shall be operated in the City between the hours of
12:00 a.m. and sunrise as established by the National Weather Service except
for emergency situations, to return to the property of the owner from the trail
by the most direct route or for loading and unloading from a transport trailer.
75.08   SPEED LIMIT.
A snowmobile, ATV, or UTV shall not be operated within the City at a speed in
excess of 15 MPH.
75.09   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile are liable for any injury
or damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile.
The owner of an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or
damage only if the owner was the operator of the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the
time the injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent
to operate the ATV, UTV, or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage
occurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.18 and 321I.19)
75.10   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever an ATV, UTV, or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in
injury or death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more,
either the operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify
a law enforcement officer and shall file an accident report within 48 hours, in
accordance with State law and the requirements of the City as stated herein..
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 and 321I.11)
CHAPTER 76
BICYCLE REGULATIONS
 
76.01 Scope of Regulations            76.08 Riding on Sidewalks
76.02 Traffic Code Applies            76.09 Towing
76.03 Double Riding Restricted        76.10 Improper Riding
76.04 Two Abreast Limit               76.11 Parking
76.05 Speed                           76.12 Equipment Requirements
76.06 Emerging From Alley or Driveway 76.13 Special Penalty
76.07 Carrying Articles                
 
76.01   SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or
upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to
those exceptions stated herein.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.02   TRAFFIC CODE APPLIES.
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
by the laws of the State declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or
by the Traffic Code of the City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to those provisions that by their nature can have no application. Whenever
such person dismounts from a bicycle, the person shall be subject to all
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234)
76.03   DOUBLE RIDING RESTRICTED.
A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons
at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.234[3 and 4])
76.04   TWO ABREAST LIMIT.
Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles. All bicycles ridden on the roadway shall be kept to the right and
shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.05   SPEED.
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.06   EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.07   CARRYING ARTICLES.
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article that
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.08   RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
The following provisions apply to riding bicycles on sidewalks:
   1.   Business District. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the Business District, as defined in Section 60.02(1) of this Code of
Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   2.   Other Locations. When signs are erected on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, no person shall
disobey the signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
   3.   Yield Right-of-Way. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.09   TOWING.
It is unlawful for any person riding a bicycle to be towed or to tow any other
vehicle upon the streets of the City unless the vehicle is manufactured for
such use.
76.10   IMPROPER RIDING.
No person shall ride a bicycle in an irregular or reckless manner such as
zigzagging, stunting, speeding, or otherwise so as to disregard the safety of
the operator or others.
76.11   PARKING.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.12   EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
Every person riding a bicycle shall be responsible for providing and using
equipment as provided herein:
   1.   Lamps Required. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front emitting a white light visible from a
distance of at least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 300 feet to the rear, except
that a red reflector on the rear, of a type that is visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle, may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.397)
   2.   Brakes Required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[10])
76.13   SPECIAL PENALTY.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may, in lieu of the
scheduled fine for bicyclists or standard penalty provided for violations of
this Code of Ordinances, allow the person’s bicycle to be impounded by the City
for not less than five days for the first offense, 10 days for a second
offense, and 30 days for a third offense.
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                       80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of   80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                      Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                    80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Reclamation of Abandoned Vehicles 80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment               
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1] and Sec. 321.90)
   1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
      A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
      B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more
than 24 hours.
      C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property
for more than 24 hours.
      D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
      E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority
to create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
      F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
   2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap, or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
   3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment, and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person in control of
private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to dispose
of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody the
abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
   1.   A police authority or private entity that takes into custody an
abandoned vehicle shall send notice by certified mail that the vehicle has been
taken into custody, no more than 20 days after taking custody of the vehicle.
Notice shall be sent to the last known address of record of the last known
registered owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known
claimant to the vehicle.
   2.   Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice shall include all
of the following:
      A.   A description of the year, make, model and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle.
      B.   The location of the facility where the vehicle is being held.
      C.   Information for the persons receiving the notice of their right to
reclaim the vehicle and personal property contained therein within 10 days
after the effective date of the notice. Persons may reclaim the vehicle or
personal property upon payment of all towing, preservation, and storage charges
resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of
the notice required pursuant to this section.
      D.   A statement that failure of the owner, lienholders, or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders, and claimants
of all right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle or personal property.
      E.   A statement that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property
is deemed consent for the police authority or private entity to sell the
vehicle at a public auction or dispose of the vehicle to a demolisher and to
dispose of the personal property by sale or destruction.
   3.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity
without a police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the
private entity may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90,
Subsection 1, of the Code of Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the
vehicle.
   4.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority
or by a private entity hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that
any person claiming rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who
disputes the planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police
authority or private entity, or of the assessment of fees and charges provided
by this section, may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority
to contest those matters.
   5.   If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing or exercise
their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the 10-day
reclaiming period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer have
any right, title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal
property.
   6.   A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right,
title, claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the
expiration of the 10-day reclaiming period.
   7.   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the
identities and addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders,
notice by one publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area
where the vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of
notice under Subsection 2 of this section. The published notice may contain
multiple listings of abandoned vehicles, but shall be published within the same
time requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed
notice in Subsection 2 of this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3])
80.04   RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
Prior to driving an abandoned vehicle away from the premises, a person who
received (or who is reclaiming the vehicle on behalf of a person who received)
notice under Section 80.03 shall present to the police authority or private
entity, as applicable, the person’s valid driver’s license and proof of
financial liability coverage as provided in Section 321.20B of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder, or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost, or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing, and notification required, in
accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner of the motor
vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited in the
State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize the
amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply for
reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle, or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
90.01 Definitions                   90.11 Installation of Water Service Pipe
90.02 Superintendent’s Duties     90.12 Responsibility for Water Service Pipe
90.03 Mandatory Connections         90.13 Failure to Maintain
90.04 Abandoned Connections         90.14 Curb Valve
90.05 Permit                        90.15 Interior Valve
90.06 Connection Charge             90.16 Inspection and Approval
90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code 90.17 Completion by the City
90.08 Plumber Required              90.18 Shutting Off Water Supply
90.09 Excavations                   90.19 Operation of Curb Valve and Hydrants
90.10 Tapping Mains                  
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
   1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
   2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service
from the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties
the duties, responsibilities, liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed
shall be joint and several.
   3.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of the City water system or
any duly authorized assistant, agent, or representative.
   4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
   5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
   6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for
securing, collecting, storing, pumping, treating, and distributing water.
90.02   SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.
The Superintendent shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and
their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to
water services in the City in accordance with this chapter. This chapter shall
apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to new
ones. The Superintendent shall make such rules, not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of the
water system, subject to the approval of the Council. In the event of an
emergency the Superintendent may make temporary rules for the protection of the
system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
All residences and business establishments within the City limits intended or
used for human habitation, occupancy or use shall be connected to the public
water system, if it is reasonably available and if the building is not
furnished with pure and wholesome water from some other source.
90.04   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned off
at the corporation stop and made absolutely watertight.
90.05   PERMIT.
Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City. The application for the permit shall
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water. If the proposed work meets all the requirements of this chapter
and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid, the permit shall be
issued. Work under any permit must be completed within 60 days after the permit
is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or unfair due to
conditions beyond the control of the person making the application, an
extension of time within which to complete the work may be granted. The permit
may be revoked at any time for any violation of these chapters.
90.06   CONNECTION CHARGE.
There shall be a connection charge in the amount of $100.00 paid before
issuance of a permit to reimburse the City for costs borne by the City in
making water service available to the property served.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural, or enforcement provisions, of the State Plumbing Code.
90.08   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
90.09   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and the
provisions of Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.10   TAPPING MAINS.
All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building, or premises
shall be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained
from the Superintendent and unless provision is made so that each house,
building, or premises may be shut off independently of the other.
   2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter
shall receive no larger than a three-fourths inch tap. All mains of over six
inches in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Superintendent shall order. All taps in the mains shall
be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main shall be
tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
   3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Superintendent, shall be inserted in every tap in the main. The
corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service pipe.
   4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Superintendent in such form as the
Superintendent shall require.
90.11   INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be Type K copper.
The use of any other pipe material for the service line shall first be approved
by the Superintendent. Pipe must be laid sufficiently waving, and to such
depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
90.12   RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the water service pipe from the curb valve at the property line
to the building served shall be borne by the owner. This shall include the
repair of the street if the street has to be torn up for repairs to the water
service pipe. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation or maintenance of
said water service pipe.
90.13   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe which is the responsibility of the
property owner becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance, the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.14   CURB VALVE.
There shall be installed within the public right-of-way a main shut-off valve
on the water service pipe of a pattern approved by the Superintendent. The
shut-off valve shall be constructed to be visible and even with the pavement or
ground.
90.15   INTERIOR VALVE.
There shall be installed a shut-off valve on every service pipe inside the
building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as possible
and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one service
pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall be
separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for one
without interfering with service to the others.
90.16   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Superintendent before they are
covered, and the Superintendent shall keep a record of such approvals. If the
Superintendent refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must
proceed immediately to correct the work. Every person who uses or intends to
use the municipal water system shall permit the Superintendent to enter the
premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable
hours and on proof of authority.
90.17   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours after
the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system, or
should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish or
correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property owner
or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the costs
before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.18   SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
The Superintendent may shut off the supply of water to any customer because of
any violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service System
chapters that is not being contested in good faith. The supply shall not be
turned on again until all violations have been corrected and the Superintendent
has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.19   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
It is unlawful for any person except the Superintendent to turn water on at the
curb valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by the City, shall
open, or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose
whatsoever.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                           91.05 Meter Setting
91.02 Water Use Metered                 91.06 Meter Costs
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems; Exception 91.07 Meter Repairs
91.04 Location of Meters                91.08 Right of Entry
 
91.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02   WATER USE METERED.
All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters
91.03   FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; EXCEPTION.
Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Superintendent. No other
open, unmetered connection shall be incorporated in the system, and there shall
be no valves except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which
must be sealed open.
91.04   LOCATION OF METERS.
All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter readers
and repairmen and protected from freezing.
91.05   METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the meter.
Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent and shall be of
a design and construction approved by the Superintendent.
91.06   METER COSTS.
The full cost of any meter larger than that required for a single-family
residence shall be paid to the City by the property owner or customer prior to
the installation of any such meter by the City, or, at the sole option of the
City, the property owner or customer may be required to purchase and install
such meter in accordance with requirements established by the City.
91.07   METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Superintendent shall have it repaired. If it is found that damage to the meter
has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property
owner, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the property owner shall be
liable for the cost of repairs.
91.08   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent shall be permitted to enter the premises of any customer at
any reasonable time to read, remove, or change a meter.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges           92.06 Lien for Nonpayment
92.02 Rates For Service         92.07 Lien Exemption
92.03 Rates Outside the City    92.08 Lien Notice
92.04 Billing for Water Service 92.09 Customer Deposits
92.05 Service Discontinued      92.10 Temporary Vacancy
 
92.01   SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters described for in Chapter 91. Each location,
building, premises, or connection shall be considered a separate and distinct
customer whether owned or controlled by the same person or not. In the case of
mobile homes that are not converted to real estate and that are located in
mobile home parks or on any lot or group of adjacent lots where two or more
mobile homeowners rent space from the owner of the real estate, there shall be
only a single account and billing for such park, lot, or group of adjacent
lots. In all cases, the owner of the real estate served by each connection,
whether to the property owner or a lessee, shall be responsible for payment for
all water services provided to such real estate. Any such properties existing
prior to the passage of the ordinance codified by this section will not be
required to convert to a single meter unless the Council, at its own
discretion, determines delinquencies occurring at the location warrant the
conversion.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02   RATES FOR SERVICE.
Water service shall be furnished at the following monthly rates within the
City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   0-1,500 Gallons - minimum bill, $42.15 (FY24)
   2.   All gallons over 1,500 shall pay a rate of $0.0057 per gallon (FY24)
   3.   Bulk water purchased directly from the municipal water department shall
be billed at the same rate all consumers pay, see table in Section 92.02(4)
   4.   Water rates shall increase each fiscal year by two percent as shown
below:
 
Fiscal Year Minimum Bill Over 1,500 Gallons
FY25        $42.99       $0.0058
FY26        $43.85       $0.0059
FY27        $44.73       $0.0060
FY28        $45.62       $0.0061
FY29        $46.53       $0.0062
FY30        $47.46       $0.0063
 
92.03   RATES OUTSIDE THE CITY.
Water service shall be provided to any customer located outside the corporate
limits of the City which the City has agreed to serve at rates 150 percent of
the rates provided in Section 92.02. No such customer, however, will be served
unless the customer shall have signed a service contract agreeing to be bound
by the ordinances, rules, and regulations applying to water service established
by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 and 384.84)
92.04   BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Meters Read. Water meters shall be read monthly. The Public Works
Department will read all water meters on or about the 25th of each month.
   2.   Bills Issued. The Billing Clerk shall prepare and issue bills for
combined service accounts on or before the 1st day of the month following the
date of reading.
   3.   Bills Payable. Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable at the office of the City Administrator/Clerk by the 20th day of the
month following the billing period.
   4.   Late Payment Penalty. Charges not paid when due shall be deemed
delinquent and a late penalty of 10 percent shall be added to the amount of the
combined service account bill.
   5.   Rental Properties. Except as provided in this subsection, the owner of
rental property shall be deemed the customer or account holder for water
service billing purposes and all bills for water charges shall be directed to
such owner. In the case of a residential rental property for which the owner
has given notice as provided in Section 92.07, the tenant shall be deemed the
customer or account holder for water service billing purposes.
92.05   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued or disconnected in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Notice. The Billing Clerk shall notify each customer whose account has
not been paid by the due date that service will be discontinued if payment of
the combined service account, including late payment charges, is not received
by the date specified in the notice of delinquency. Such notice shall be sent
by ordinary mail to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were
incurred at least 12 days before the date intended for the service
discontinuance and shall inform the customer of the nature of the delinquency
and afford the customer the opportunity for a hearing before the Water/Sewer
Committee prior to the discontinuance.
   2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
   3.   Hearing. If the customer wishes to appear before the Water and Sewer
Committee, the customer shall notify the City Administrator/Clerk not later
than five full business days (Monday - Friday, excluding holidays) before the
date scheduled for disconnection. At the customer’s request, the Water and
Sewer Committee shall make a determination as to whether the disconnection is
justified. The customer has the right to appeal the committee’s decision to the
Council, and if the Council finds that disconnection is justified, then such
disconnection shall be made, unless payment has been received.
   4.   Fees. A $35.00 disconnection charge and $35.00 reconnection charge
shall be paid before service is restored to a delinquent customer. No fee shall
be charged for the usual or customary trips in the regular changes in
occupancies of property.
92.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the City
Administrator/Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner
as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.07   LIEN EXEMPTION.  
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
   1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
   2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply
to the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, stormwater drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
   3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
   4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for
nonpayment of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section
shall not be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or
manufactured home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is
owned by a tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home
community and the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or
manager is the account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the
tenant is responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed
to the account holder.
92.08   LIEN NOTICE.
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09   CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
There shall be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a $150.00 deposit intended to guarantee the payment of bills for
service.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.10   TEMPORARY VACANCY.
A property owner may request water service be temporarily discontinued and shut
off at the curb valve when the property is expected to be vacant for an
extended period of time. There shall be a $30.00 fee collected for restoring
service. during a period when service is temporarily discontinued as provided
herein there shall be no minimum service charge. The City will not drain pipes
or pull meters for temporary vacancies.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
 
95.01 Purpose               95.06 Sewer Connection Required
95.02 Definitions           95.07 Service Outside the City
95.03 Superintendent        95.08 Right of Entry
95.04 Prohibited Acts       95.09 Use of Easements
95.05 Prohibited Discharges 95.10 Special Penalties
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
   1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20?, expressed in milligrams per liter or
parts per million.
   2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
   4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and
sewage.
   5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial, or industrial waste that is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
   6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
   7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial
manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the
public sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
   9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
   11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution.
   12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories, or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and
industrial waste.
   14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer that carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage.
   17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees
levied against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of
said customers by said sewer system.
   20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste that
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer that carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   22.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of sewage works and/or of
water pollution control of the City or any authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and that are removable
by laboratory filtering.
   24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   SUPERINTENDENT.
The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
   1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
   2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
   3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections, and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
   1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment that is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
   2.   Surface Run-Off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
   4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage
except as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
   6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City,
or in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
The Council finds that the discharge of water from any roof, surface ground,
sump pump, footing tile, or swimming pool or other natural precipitation into
the City sewage system will and has on numerous occasions in the past, flooded
and overloaded the sewage system to such an extent as to cause significant and
grave damage to the property of large number of City residents. This discharge
also affects the sewer plant itself. Such damage is caused by the backup of
sewage into living quarters of residents and in addition to other damages
creates a hazard to health. The Council, therefore, finds it is essential to
the maintenance of health and to minimize damage to property that the
provisions of this subsection be strictly enforced to avoid emergencies in the
future.
   1.   Definition and Method. No water from any roof, surface ground, sump
pump, footing tile, swimming pool or other natural precipitation shall be
discharged into the sanitary sewer system. Dwellings and other buildings and
structures which require, because of the infiltration of water into basements,
crawl spaces and the like, a sump pump system to discharge excess water, shall
have a permanently installed discharge line which shall not at any time
discharge water into the sanitary sewer system. A permanent installation shall
be one which provides for year-round discharge capability to either the outside
of the dwelling, building or structure, or is connected to the City storm
sewer, or discharges through the curb and gutter to the street. It shall
consist of a rigid discharge line, without valving or quick connections for
altering the path of discharge, and if connected to the City storm sewer line
shall include a check valve.
   2.   Disconnection. Any person having a roof, surface ground, sump pump,
footing tile or swimming pool now connected and/or discharging into the
sanitary sewer system shall disconnect and/or remove the same. Any disconnects
or openings in the sanitary sewer shall be closed or repaired in an effective,
workmanlike manner, as approved by the inspector.
   3.   Inspection. If the City has reason to suspect that an illegal
connection may exist in a premises, the owner shall, upon written notice, allow
an employee of the City or any designated representative to inspect the
buildings to confirm that there is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge
into the sanitary sewer system. Any person refusing to allow his or her
property to be inspected shall immediately become subject to the surcharge
hereinafter provided for. Any property owner found to violate this section
shall make the necessary changes to comply with this section and furnish proof
of the necessary changes within 20 days after receiving notice on
noncompliance.
   4.   Penalty. A surcharge of $100.00 per month is hereby imposed and added
to every sewer billing mailed after certified notice that the property owner is
in noncompliance. The surcharge will start on the date specified in the
certified notice and will be added every month until the property is in
compliance. The surcharge shall continue to be levied monthly on properties not
complying with this section.
95.06   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 90 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 100 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
95.07   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system may apply to the Council for
permission to connect to the public sewer upon the terms and conditions
stipulated by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4[2 and 3])
95.08   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.09   USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.10   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
   1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for in Subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation
of this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                  96.06 Interceptors Required
96.02 Connection Charge       96.07 Sewer Tap
96.03 Plumber Required        96.08 Inspection Required
96.04 Excavations             96.09 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.05 Connection Requirements 96.10 Abatement of Violations
 
96.01   PERMIT.  
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the City. The application for the permit shall
set forth the following information:
   1.   The location and description of the property to be connected with the
sewer system.
   2.   The purpose for which the sewer is to be used.
   3.   Plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent.
The permit shall require the owner to complete construction and connection of
the building sewer to the public sewer within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit, except that when a property owner makes sufficient showing that due to
conditions beyond the owner’s control or peculiar hardship, such time period is
inequitable or unfair, an extension of time within which to comply with the
provisions herein may be granted. Any sewer connection permit may be revoked at
any time for a violation of these chapters.
96.02   CONNECTION CHARGE.
There shall be a connection charge in the amount of $250.00 paid before
issuance of a permit to reimburse the City for costs borne by the City in
making sewer service available to the property served.
96.03   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer shall
be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
96.05   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
   1.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted by
the owner and observed by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
   2.   Separate Building Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands
at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or
can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway. In such cases the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   3.   Installation. The installation and connection of the building sewer to
the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code
and applicable rules and regulations of the City. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   4.   Water Lines. When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service. The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer.
   5.   Size. Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
   6.   Alignment and Grade. All building sewers shall be laid to a straight
line to meet the following:
      A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot.
      B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot.
      C.   Minimum velocity of two feet per second with the sewer half full.
      D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the
written approval of the Superintendent and shall be made only with approved
fittings.
   7.   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth of cover above the
sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
   8.   Sewage Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer.
   9.   Pipe Specifications. Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws,
splits, or breaks. Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code
except that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public
sewer, shall comply with the current edition of one of the following:
      A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
      B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74.
      C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
      D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
   10.   Bearing Walls. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within
three feet of any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened.
   11.   Jointing. Fittings, type of joint and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Superintendent. Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
   12.   Unstable Soil. No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is exposed
when crossing any watercourse. Where an old watercourse must of necessity be
crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement, cast iron
soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete shall be
required for such crossings. Such encasement shall extend at least six inches
on all sides of the pipe. The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe shall rest on
firm, solid material at either end.
   13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space. No connection for any
residence, business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made
unless the basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab
or crawl space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to
the foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled. The backfill
shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from the
foundation. Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the first floor
is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the
plug shall be sealed by the Superintendent. Any accumulation of water in any
excavation or basement during construction and prior to connection to the
sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other than draining into the sanitary
sewer.
96.06   INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, sludge, and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and service
stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities when,
in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand, or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required,
such interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
   1.   Design and Location. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
as specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Superintendent,
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight.
   3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at
the owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at
all times.
96.07   SEWER TAP.
Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the “Y”
branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent. The public sewer shall be tapped with
a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer shall be
glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the sewer. At no
time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a manhole unless
special written permission is received from the Superintendent and in
accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is approved.
96.08   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Superintendent. As soon as all pipe
work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and
before any backfilling is done, the Superintendent shall be notified and the
Superintendent shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material;
no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or trenches filled until after
the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Superintendent refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the
work.
96.09   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection and maintenance
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. This shall include repairing
any street if the street has to be torn up for repairs to the building sewer.
The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
96.10   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines, whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date of
official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time, the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Stormwater               97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                               Superintendent
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01   STORMWATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
that are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02   SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where such
discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but any
permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to be
in the best interests of the sewer system.
97.03   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel
oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including but not limited to cyanides (CN) in excess of two milligrams per
liter as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
   3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities
or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
      A.   Any waters or wastes:
         (1)   Having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300
parts per million by weight; or
         (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
         (3)   Having an average daily flow greater than two percent of the
average sewage flow of the City, shall be subject to the review of the
Superintendent.
      B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
         (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight; or
         (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
or
         (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
      C.   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
   1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150° (65°).
   2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
   3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances that may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150° (0° to 65°).
   4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to
such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than
one-half inch in any dimension.
   5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
   6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
   7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste
or odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits that may
be established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-
life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
   9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials that exert or cause:
      A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
      B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
   11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance that, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable
of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
   12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials, or substances that
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration, or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
   13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances that are
not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes
employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage
treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES; POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
   1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
   2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
   3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
   4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling
and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under
the provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06   SPECIAL FACILITIES.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary treatment or
flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner’s expense.
97.07   CONTROL MANHOLES.
When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
97.08   TESTING OF WASTES.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples.)
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.06 Maintenance of System
98.02 When Required               98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.08 Disposal of Septage
98.04 Permit Required             98.09 Minimum Lot Area
98.05 Discharge Restrictions
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(567 IAC 69.1[3 and 4])
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch, stream, pond,
lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the surface of the
ground.
(567 IAC 69.1[3])
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall operate
and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to
the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an on-
site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
98.09   MINIMUM LOT AREA.
No permit shall be issued for any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system employing sub-surface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 40,000 square feet.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
99.01 Purpose                99.09 Responsibility for Increased Costs
99.02 Definitions            99.10 Application
99.03 Use of Funds           99.11 Payment of Bills
99.04 Accounts Designated    99.12 Lien for Nonpayment
99.05 Year-end Balances      99.13 Notification of Rate Change
99.06 Charges Based on Usage 99.14 Special Rates
99.07 Rates For Service      99.15 Private Water Systems
99.08 Surcharge
 
99.01   PURPOSE.
It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the protection
of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the City to collect
charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the City’s treatment works.
The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the purpose of
operating, maintaining, and retiring the debt for such public wastewater
treatment works.
99.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Normal domestic wastewater” means wastewater that has a C.B.O.D.
concentration of not more than 300 mg/l, and a suspended solids concentration
of not more than 350 mg/l.
   2.   “Operation and maintenance” means all expenditures during the useful
life of the wastewater treatment works for materials, labor, utilities and
other items which are necessary for managing and maintaining the treatment
works to achieve the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed.
   3.   “Replacement” means expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful
life of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance”
includes replacement.
   4.   “Residential contributor” means any contributor to the City’s treatment
works whose lot, parcel of real estate or building is used for domestic
dwelling purposes only.
   5.   “Treatment works” means any devices and systems used for the storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or
liquid industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers,
sewage collection systems, individual systems, pumping, power and other
equipment and their appurtenances; extensions, improvement, remodeling,
additions and alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable
recycled supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and
any works, including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part
of the treatment process or used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting
from such treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of
such compost, and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land
treatment systems before land application); or any other method or system for
preventing, abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of
municipal waste, including waste in combined stormwater and sanitary sewer
systems.
   6.   “Useful life” means the estimated period during which a treatment works
will be operated.
   7.   “User charge” means that portion of the total wastewater service charge
which is levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of
operation, maintenance, and replacement of the treatment works.
   8.   “Water meter” means a water volume measuring and recording device,
furnished or installed by the City or furnished or installed by a user and
approved by the City.
99.03   USE OF FUNDS.
The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay costs of
annual operation and maintenance including replacement and costs associated
with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with financing the treatment
works which the City may by ordinance designate to be paid by the user charge
system. That portion of the total user charge which is designated for operation
and maintenance including replacement of the treatment works shall be
established by this chapter.
99.04   ACCOUNTS DESIGNATED.
That portion of the total user charge collected which is designated for
operation and maintenance including replacement purposes as established in this
chapter shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the Sewer
Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund and will be kept in two primary
accounts as follows:
   1.   Operation and Maintenance Account. An account designated for the
specific purpose of defraying operation and maintenance costs (excluding
replacement) of the treatment works.
   2.   Replacement Account. An account designated for the specific purpose of
ensuring replacement needs over the useful life of the treatment works.
Deposits in the Replacement Account shall be made monthly from the Operation,
Maintenance, and Replacement Fund in the amount of $1,800.00.
99.05   YEAR-END BALANCES.
Fiscal year-end balances of revenues in excess of operating and maintenance
expenses in the Operation and Maintenance Account shall be first used to
replace any transfers from other fund sources to meet temporary shortages in
the Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund. Any remaining fund balance in
the Operation and Maintenance Account shall then be transferred to the
Replacement Account for future expenditures.
99.06   CHARGES BASED ON USAGE.
Each user shall pay for the services provided by the City based on said user’s
use of the treatment works as determined by water meters acceptable to the
City.
   1.   Normal Domestic Users. For residential contributors, monthly user
charges will be based on the water usage during the billing period.
   2.   Industrial and Commercial Use. For industrial and commercial
contributors, user charges may be based on water used during the current
billing period. If a commercial or industrial contributor has a consumptive use
of water, or in some other manner uses water which is not returned to the
wastewater collection system, the user charge for that contributor may be based
on a wastewater meter or separate water meter installed and maintained at the
contributor’s expense, and in a manner acceptable to the City.
99.07   RATES FOR SERVICE.
Sewer service will be furnished at the following rates within the City.
   1.   0-1,500 gallons - minimum bill $50.64. (FY24)
   2.   All gallons over 1,500 shall pay a rate of $0.0058 per gallon (FY24)
   3.   Sewer rates shall increase each fiscal year by two percent as shown
below:
 
Fiscal Year Minimum Bill Over 1,500 Gallons
FY25        $51.65       $0.0059
FY26        $52.68       $0.0060
FY27        $53.73       $0.0061
FY28        $54.80       $0.0062
FY29        $55.90       $0.0063
FY30        $57.02       $0.0064
 
99.08   SURCHARGE.
For those contributors who contribute wastewater, the strength of which is
greater than normal domestic sewage, a surcharge in addition to the normal user
charge will be collected. The surcharge for operation and maintenance including
replacement is $0.06 per pound C.B.O.D. and $0.05 per pound SS (suspended
solids).
99.09   RESPONSIBILITY FOR INCREASED COSTS.
Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in the
cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the City’s treatment works or
any user which discharges any substance which singly or by interaction with
other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of operation,
maintenance or replacement of the treatment works shall pay for such increased
costs. The charge to each such user shall be as determined by the responsible
plant operating personnel and approved by the Council.
99.10   APPLICATION.
The user charge rates established in this chapter apply to all users of the
City’s treatment works, regardless of their location.
99.11   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All sewer user charges are due and payable under the same terms and conditions
provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in Section
92.04. Sewer service may be discontinued in accordance with the provisions
contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
99.12   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07, the owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall
be jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises.
Sewer service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien
upon the property or premises served and shall be certified by the City
Administrator/Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner
as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
99.13   NOTIFICATION OF RATE CHANGE.
The City will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with a regular
bill, of the rate being charged for operation and maintenance including
replacement of the treatment works.
99.14   SPECIAL RATES.
Where, in the judgment of the Superintendent and the Council, special
conditions exist to the extent that the application of the sewer user charge
provided in Section
99.07 would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the person required
to pay, a special rate shall be proposed by the Superintendent and submitted to
the Council for approval by resolution.
99.15   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
Persons whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay a user
charge based upon the water used as determined by the Superintendent either by
an estimate agreed to by the person or by metering the water system at the
person’s expense. Any negotiated, or agreed upon sales or user charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
CHAPTER 100
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM UTILITY
 
100.01 Name and Purpose     100.05 Utility Services Discontinued
100.02 District Established 100.06 Lien For Nonpayment
100.03 Fund Established     100.07 Definitions
100.04 Storm Sewer Fee      100.08 Permit Required
 
100.01   NAME AND PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish the City’s “Stormwater Drainage
System Utility.”
100.02   DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
The Stormwater Drainage System Utility District shall include all property and
premises located within the confines of the City limits.
100.03   FUND ESTABLISHED.
A City of Garnavillo Utility Fund is hereby established, to be known as the
Stormwater Drainage System Utility Fund (Storm Sewer Fund) to collect monies
from:
   1.   All customers who are billed for water, sewer, and solid waste services
pursuant to Chapters
90-
92,
95-
99, and
105-
106 of this Code of Ordinances; and,
   2.   The owners of property within the City limits, not otherwise identified
in Subsection 1.
The fund shall be used to pay the expenses of operation and maintenance of the
Stormwater Drainage System Utility and for stormwater drainage projects for the
benefit of the City, as determined by the Council, including, but not limited
to, payments on bonds and debt service thereof.
100.04   STORM SEWER FEE.
There is hereby established a storm sewer fee in the amount of $2.50 per month
for each City residential unit/lot, $6.00 for every commercial/educational/
governmental/religious unit, and $10.00 for every industrial unit to fund the
“Stormwater Drainage System Utility” Fund. The fee shall be:
   1.   Added to the customer’s utility account for those customers identified
in Section
100.03(1), and
   2.   By ordinary mail two times each year, in advance, to the persons
described in Section 100.3(2).
   3.   A residential unit as defined as a single-family unit including single-
family homes, apartment units, and other multi-family living units where a
single family lives. There will be a storm utility charge for each single-
family unit.
   4.   A commercial/educational/governmental/religious unit is defined as any
commercial business, school, educational, government, group home, nursing home,
assisted living center, or religious building. There will be a charge for each
commercial building. There will be no charge for outside fixed equipment on
commercial property (i.e.: storage bins, elevators, small portable sheds).
   5.   An industrial unit is defined as any industrial building. There will be
a charge for each industrial building.
   6.   There will be no charge for vacant lots.
   7.   Property owners will be billed directly for rental properties.
100.05   UTILITY SERVICES DISCONTINUED.
To the extent the storm sewer fee is billed to a property or premises as a
combined service account with any other City utility, all the services may be
discontinued if the account becomes delinquent.
100.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07, the owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall
be jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises.
Stormwater service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a
lien upon the property or premises served and shall be certified by the City
Administrator/Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner
as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
100.07   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Waterway” means the path taken by stormwater runoff as a result of
flows which exceed the capacity of any underground drainage system or for which
there is no underground drainage system in place. This path may include
streets, channels, or drainage ways, and be located on public or private
property.
   2.   “Structure” means any object that may impede the natural flow of water
including, but not limited to, residences, garages, sheds, equipment, dams,
berms, trees, shrubs, and bushes.
   3.   “Adjacent” means within the same City block and on the same side of the
street or alley as the proposed structure or culvert/tube.
   4.   “Properly sized drainage structure or culvert/tube” means the proper
size of any drainage structure or culvert/tube shall be determined by a
licensed engineer, unless adjacent drainage structures or culverts/tubes are in
place upstream from the proposed structure or culvert/tube, in which event the
property owner may install the same size or a larger structure or culvert/tube
as the adjacent upstream culvert/tubes and structures. Example: A property
owner may install a 12-inch or larger driveway culvert in the event an adjacent
upstream property owner has a 12-inch driveway tube/culvert. If there are no
adjacent culverts/tubes or structures upstream to the proposed culvert/tube or
structure, a licensed engineer must approve the size of the culverts/tubes or
structures that will be installed.
100.08   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall maintain or construct any type of structure over, across, under
or through the City Stormwater Drainage System or any other waterway without
having first obtained a Stormwater Drainage System Structure Permit in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   1.   Any person desiring a permit shall make a written application to the
City Administrator/Clerk on forms furnished by the City. The application shall
set forth the name and address of the applicant, the name of the person who
shall perform the work and such other information as the City Administrator/
Clerk may require. At the time of making such application, the applicant shall
agree in writing to indemnify and protect the City, its employees, agents,
assigns, and citizens at all times in connection with the maintenance and/or
construction of the structure. The application shall include detailed plans.
   2.   The City Administrator/Clerk shall approve or deny the application
within 30 days of the date it is submitted. Failure of the City Administrator/
Clerk to approve the application within 30 days shall be deemed denial. Any
person aggrieved by the granting or denial of the application may appeal to the
Council.
   3.   No permit shall be granted except in the following cases:
      A.   For walkways or driveways providing ingress and egress from and to
parcels adjacent, except for the Stormwater Drainage System Structure, and
under the common ownership of the applicant. Properly sized drainage tubes
shall be installed to allow stormwater to flow under the driveway or walkway.
      B.   For walkways or driveways providing ingress and egress from and to
property owned by the applicant and a City right-of-way. Properly sized
drainage tubes shall be installed to allow stormwater to flow under the
driveway or walkway.
      C.   For means of ingress and egress to applicant’s property for
emergency services or freight delivery. Properly sized drainage tubes shall be
installed to allow stormwater to flow under the driveway or walkway.
   4.   Special permits may be issued with Council approval on a case-by-case
basis for storm drainage projects on City owned right-of-way. Consultation will
be held with a stormwater engineer for these types of permit requests.
   5.   Any person aggrieved by the approval or denial of a permit application
may appeal to the Council. The appeal must be taken within 30 days of the City
Administrator/Clerk’s action on the application. The Council shall fix a time
for hearing the appeal, give public notice thereof, and decide the appeal
within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any person may appear in person or by
agent or attorney. A fee of $50.00 shall be paid at the time the notice of
appeal is filed. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed.
   6.   The permit shall be revocable at the discretion of the Council and any
revocation shall require the immediate cessation of use and removal within 30
days of notification. Upon failure of a property owner to secure a permit in
the case of existing structures or upon revocation of a permit, the applicant’s
structure shall be removed at applicant’s cost and if applicant fails to do so
within the 30-day period, then the City shall remove the structure and assess
all costs to the property owner to be levied as taxes upon certification to the
County Treasurer in conformity with the Code of Iowa.
   7.   Any person aggrieved by the approval or denial of a permit application
may appeal to the Council. The appeal must be taken within 30 days of the City
Administrator/Clerk’s action on the application. The Council shall fix a time
for hearing the appeal, give public notice thereof, and decide the appeal
within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any person may appear in person or by
agent or attorney. A fee of $50.00 shall be paid at the time the notice of
appeal is filed. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed.
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
 
105.01 Purpose                           105.07 Littering Prohibited
105.02 Definitions                       105.08 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required        105.09 Waste Storage Containers
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard            105.10 Prohibited Practices
105.05 Open Burning Restricted           105.11 Sanitary Disposal Project
                                         Designated
105.06 Separation of Yard Waste Required  
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety, and welfare as may
result from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste from
public and private places.
   2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit, or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
   3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or
are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing,
serving, and consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all
offal, excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage.
The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
(567 IAC 20.2)
   6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
   7.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person
residing in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating, or transacting business in
any premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities,
liabilities, and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
   8.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including but not
limited to garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste, and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   9.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple-
family dwelling.
   10.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements, but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes, and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(567 IAC 20.2)
   11.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible
and non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   12.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   13.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
(including all real and personal property connected with such facilities) that
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources. “Sanitary disposal project” does not include a pyrolysis or
gasification facility as defined in Section 455B.301 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   14.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar
discarded solid or semisolid materials, including but not limited to such
materials resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic
activities. Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of
the Code of Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
      A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
      B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
      C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
      D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
      E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
      F.   Material that is legitimately recycled pursuant to Section 455D.4A
of the Code of Iowa.
      G.   Post-use polymers or recoverable feedstocks that are any of the
following:
         (1)   Processed at a pyrolysis or gasification facility.
         (2)   Held at a pyrolysis or gasification facility prior to processing
to ensure production is not interrupted.
   15.   “Toxic and hazardous waste” means waste materials, including (but not
limited to) poisons, pesticides, herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological
waste, flammable or explosive materials, and similar harmful waste that
requires special handling and that must be disposed of in such a manner as to
conserve the environment and protect the public health and safety.
(567 IAC 100.2)
   16.   “Yard waste” means any debris such as grass clippings, leaves, garden
waste, brush, and trees. Yard waste does not include tree stumps.
105.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
It is the duty of each owner to provide for the sanitary disposal of all refuse
accumulating on the owner’s premises before it becomes a nuisance. Any such
accumulation remaining on any premises for a period of more than 30 days shall
be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed to abate such nuisances in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in
district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04   HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation, or fire hazard.
105.05   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
No person shall allow, cause, or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(567 IAC 23.2 and 100.2)
   1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape
waste, for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an
officially declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of
any structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“a”)
   2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings
at a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in
compliance with the rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“b”)
   3.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“c”)
   4.   Landscape Waste. The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises shall be limited to areas located at least one-
fourth mile from any building inhabited. However, the burning of landscape
waste produced in clearing, grubbing and construction operations shall be
limited to areas located at least one-fourth mile from any building inhabited
by other than the landowner or tenant conducting the open burning. Rubber tires
shall not be used to ignite landscape waste.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“d”)
   5.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation, and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources and with
the following regulations:
      A.   No material(s) other than wood or charcoal shall be burned in a
recreational fire.
      B.   Recreational fires must be contained in a metal, brick, stone, or
masonry fire ring or pit of not more than four feet in diameter or four feet
square.
      C.   Recreational fires must be no closer than 15 feet from any house or
building measured from the structure’s foundation or base to the edge of the
fire ring or pit.
      D.   Recreational fires must not be left unattended at any time.
   6.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of conducting bona fide
training of public or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided
that the training fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by
the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“g”)
   7.   Pesticide Containers and Seed Corn Bags. The disposal by open burning
of paper or plastic pesticide containers (except those formerly containing
organic forms of beryllium, selenium, mercury, lead, cadmium, or arsenic) and
seed corn bags resulting from farming activities occurring on the premises if
burned in accordance with rules established by the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“h”)
   8.   Agricultural Structures. The open burning of agricultural structures if
in accordance with rules and limitations established by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“i”])
   9.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of
a demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in accordance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[3]“j”)
   10.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 23.2[2])
In no event shall any person burn or cause to be burned any materials on any
public or private land within 200 feet of any magazine or tank used to store
flammable materials of any nature or description or within dangerous proximity
of any building or structure within the City.
105.06   SEPARATION OF YARD WASTE REQUIRED.
All yard waste shall be separated by the owner or occupant from all other solid
waste accumulated on the premises and shall be composted or burned on the
premises (only if one fourth mile or more from a building) or taken to a City
compost site, if available.
105.07   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.08   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources.
(567 IAC 100.2)
(567 IAC 102.13[2] and 400 IAC 27.14[2])
105.09   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   1.   Container Specifications. Waste storage containers shall comply with
the following specifications:
      A.   Residential. Residential solid waste containers shall be provided y
the collector.
      B.   Commercial. Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or
renting any commercial premises where an excessive amount of refuse accumulates
and where its storage in portable containers is impractical, shall maintain
metal bulk storage containers approved by the City.
   2.   Storage of Containers. Residential solid waste containers shall be
stored upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste containers shall
be stored upon private property, unless the owner has been granted written
permission from the City to use public property for such purposes. The storage
site shall be well drained and fully accessible to collection equipment, public
health personnel, and fire inspection personnel. All owners of residential and
commercial premises shall be responsible for proper storage of all garbage and
yard waste to prevent materials from being blown or scattered around
neighboring yards and streets.
   3.   Location of Containers for Collection. Containers for the storage of
solid waste awaiting collection shall be placed outdoors at some easily
accessible place by the owner or occupant of the premises served.
   4.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers that are not
in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
105.10   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
   1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste
containers not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of
such containers.
   2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
   3.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed
for high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid, or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
   4.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste that has been placed out
for collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
105.11   SANITARY DISPOSAL PROJECT DESIGNATED.
The sanitary landfill facilities operated by Winneshiek County are hereby
designated as the official “Public Sanitary Disposal Project” for the disposal
of solid waste produced or originating within the City.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.06 Right of Entry
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.07 Contract Requirements
106.03 Loading                 106.08 Collection Fees
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.09 Lien for Nonpayment
106.05 Bulky Rubbish
 
106.01   COLLECTION SERVICE.
The City shall provide by contract for the collection of solid waste, except
bulky rubbish as provided in Section
106.05, from residential premises only. The owners or operators of commercial,
industrial, or institutional premises shall provide for the collection of solid
waste produced upon such premises.
106.02   COLLECTION VEHICLES.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be cleaned
to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect breeding and shall be maintained in
good repair.
(567 IAC 104.9)
106.03   LOADING.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any solid
waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will not
fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or loss
of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04   FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once each
week and from commercial, industrial, and institutional premises as frequently
as may be necessary, but not less than once each week.
106.05   BULKY RUBBISH.
Bulky rubbish that is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal manner
of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request in
accordance with procedures established by the Council.
106.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste, as required by this chapter; however,
solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other residential
buildings.
106.07   CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing,
or disposing of solid waste from residential premises for the City without
first entering into a contract with the City. This section does not prohibit an
owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises owned, occupied,
or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of properly in an
approved sanitary disposal project. Furthermore, a contract is not required for
the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading or
excavation activities, provided that all such materials are conveyed in tight
vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the
material being transported is spilled upon any public right-of-way.
106.08   COLLECTION FEES.
The collection and disposal of solid waste as provided by this chapter are
declared to be beneficial to the property served or eligible to be served and
there shall be levied and collected fees for the same, in accordance with the
following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449 [Iowa 1970])
   1.   Fee for Collection. The monthly fee for solid waste collection and
disposal service, used or available, for residential properties and small
business premises are as follows:
 
Effective Date Family and Single Rate
10-01-2023     $14.72
10-01-2024     $15.76
 
   2.   Payment of Bills. All fees are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04. Solid waste collection service may be discontinued in accordance with
the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
106.09   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for solid
waste collection and disposal. Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the property or premises served and shall be certified
by the City Administrator/Clerk to the County Treasurer for collection in the
same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
 
110.01 Franchise Granted                           110.08 Relocation of Grantee’s
                                                   Facilities
110.02 Term                                        110.09 Confidential Information
110.03 Franchise Fees or Taxes                     110.10 Force Majeure
110.04 Governing Rules and Regulations             110.11 Hold Harmless
110.05 Provision for Inadequate Energy Supplies    110.12 Successors and Assigns
110.06 Construction and Maintenance of Grantee’s 110.13 No Third-Party
Facilities                                         Beneficiaries
110.07 Extension of Grantee’s Facilities         110.14 Non-waiver
 
110.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
The City of Garnavillo, Iowa (hereinafter referred to as “Grantor”), hereby
grants a non-exclusive franchise to Black Hills/Iowa Gas Utility Company, LLC
d/b/a Black Hills Energy, a Delaware limited liability corporation (hereinafter
called “Grantee”), its lessees, successors, and assigns. Grantee is hereby
granted the right, privilege, franchise, permission and authority to lay,
construct, install, maintain, operate and extend in, along, over, above, or
across the present and future streets, alleys, avenues, bridges, public rights-
of-way, and public easements as are now within the present or future limits of
said Grantor, a natural gas distribution system and all facilities necessary
for the purpose of supplying natural gas or processed gas and other operations
connected therewith or incident thereto for all purposes to the inhabitants of
said Grantor and consumers in the vicinity thereof, and for the distribution of
natural gas from or through said Grantor to points beyond the limits thereof.
Such facilities shall include, but not be limited to, all mains, services,
pipes, poles, communication devices, conduits, and all other apparatus and
appliances necessary or convenient for transporting, distributing, and
supplying natural gas for all purposes for which it may be used, and to do all
other things necessary and proper in providing natural gas service to the
inhabitants of Grantor and in carrying on such business.
110.02   TERM.
The rights and privileges granted hereunder shall remain in effect for a period
of 25 years from the effective date of the ordinance codified by this chapter.†
5
 
Notes
5 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 02-2014, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on July 12, 2014.
110.03   FRANCHISE FEES OR TAXES.
   1.   The City, hereby establishes a franchise fee on every natural gas or
electric company and every other person, firm or corporation, their successors
and assigns, owning, operating, controlling, leasing, or managing a natural gas
or electric plant or system and/or generating, manufacturing, selling,
distributing or transporting natural gas or electric (hereinafter referred to,
collectively, as “Energy Providers,” each, individually, an “Energy Provider”).
Energy Providers shall collect from their customers located within the
corporate limits of the Municipality as depicted on the Map (as defined below)
including the City of City and pay to the City an amount equal to three percent
of gross receipts Energy Providers derive from the sale, distribution, or
transportation of natural gas or electric delivered within the present limits
of the Municipality. Gross receipts as used herein are revenues received from
the sale, distribution, or transportation of natural gas or electric, after
adjustment for the net write-off of uncollectible accounts and corrections of
bills theretofore rendered.
   2.   The amount paid by Energy Providers shall be in lieu of, and Energy
Providers shall be exempt from, all other fees, charges, taxes, or assessments
which the Municipality may impose for the privilege of doing business within
the Municipality, including, without limitation, excise taxes, occupation
taxes, licensing fees, or right-of-way permit fees, and in the event the
Municipality imposes any such fee, charge, tax, or assessment, the payment to
be made by Energy Providers in accordance with this chapter shall be reduced in
an amount equal to any such fee, charge, tax or assessment imposed upon the
Energy Providers. Ad valorem property taxes imposed generally upon all real and
personal property within the Municipality shall not be deemed to affect Energy
Providers’ obligations under this chapter.
   3.   Energy Providers shall report and pay any amount payable under this
chapter on a monthly basis. Such payment shall be made no more than 30 days
following the close of the period for which payment is due. Initial and final
payments shall be prorated for the portions of the periods at the beginning and
end of any franchise granted by the City to an Energy Provider.
   4.   Energy Providers shall list the franchise fee collected from customers
as a separate item on bills for utility service issued to their customers. If
at any time the Iowa Utilities Board or other authority having proper
jurisdiction prohibits such recovery, Energy Providers will no longer be
obligated to collect and pay the franchise fee until an alternate lawful
franchise fee can be negotiated and implemented. In addition, with prior
approval of City, Energy Providers may reduce the franchise fee payable for
natural gas or electric delivered to a specific customer when such reduction is
required to attract or retain the business of that customer.
   5.   Within 10 days of the date of the ordinance codified in this chapter,
the Municipality shall provide the Energy Providers with a map of its corporate
limits (the “Map”). The Map shall be of sufficient detail to assist Energy
Providers in determining whether their customers reside within the
Municipality’s corporate limits. The Map along with Energy Provider’s
Geographic Information System (“GIS”) mapping information shall serve as the
sole basis for determining Energy Provider’s obligation hereunder to collect
and pay the franchise fee from customers; provided, however, that if the
Municipality’s corporate limits are changed by annexation or otherwise, it
shall be the Municipality’s sole responsibility to (a) update the Map so that
such changes are included therein, and (b) provide the updated Map to the
Energy Providers. An Energy Provider’s obligation to collect and pay the
franchise fee from customers within an annexed area shall not commence until
the later: (a) of 60 days after such Energy Provider’s receipt from the
Municipality of an updated Map including such annexed area, or (b) such time
after such Energy Provider’s receipt from the Municipality of an updated Map
including such annexed area as is reasonably necessary for such Energy Provider
to identify the customers in the annexed area obligated to pay the franchise
fee.
   6.   The City shall provide copies of annexation ordinances to Energy
Providers on a timely basis to ensure appropriate franchise fee collection from
customers within the corporate limits of the City as set forth in Subsection 4
above.
   7.   The Municipality shall have access to and the right to examine, during
normal business hours, Energy Provider’s books, receipts, files, records, and
documents as is reasonably necessary to verify the accuracy of payments due
hereunder; provided, that the Municipality shall not exercise such right more
than twice per calendar year. If it is determined that a mistake was made in
the payment of any franchise fee required hereunder, such mistake shall be
corrected promptly upon discovery such that any under-payment by an Energy
Provider shall be paid within 30 days of recalculation of the amount due, and
any over-payment by an Energy Provider shall be deducted from the next payment
of such franchise fee due by such Energy Provider to the Municipality;
provided, that neither party shall have the obligation to correct a mistake
that is discovered more than one year after the occurrence thereof.
110.04   GOVERNING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The franchise granted hereunder is subject to all conditions, limitations, and
immunities now provided for, or as hereafter amended, and applicable to the
operations of a public utility, by State or federal law. The rates to be
charged by Grantee for service within the present or future corporate limits of
Grantor and the rules and regulations regarding the character, quality and
standards of service to be furnished by Grantee, shall be under the
jurisdiction and control of such regulatory body or bodies as may, from time to
time, be vested by law with authority and jurisdiction over the rates,
regulations, and quality and standards of service to be supplied by Grantee.
Provided however, should any judicial, regulatory, or legislative body having
proper jurisdiction take any action that precludes Grantee from recovering from
its customers any cost associated with services provided hereunder, then
Grantee and Grantor shall renegotiate the terms of this franchise in accordance
with the action taken. In determining the rights and duties of the Grantee, the
terms of this franchise shall take precedence over any conflicting terms or
requirements contained in any other ordinance enacted by the Grantor.
110.05   PROVISION FOR INADEQUATE ENERGY SUPPLIES.
If an energy supplier is unable to furnish an adequate supply of energy due to
an emergency, an order or decision of a public regulatory body, or other acts
beyond the control of the Grantee, then the Grantee shall have the right and
authority to adopt reasonable rules and regulations limiting, curtailing, or
allocating extensions of service or supply of energy to any customers or
prospective customers, and withholding the supply of energy to new customers,
provided that such rules and regulations shall be uniform as applied to each
class of customers or prospective customers, and shall be non-discriminatory as
between communities receiving service from the Grantee.
110.06   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF GRANTEE’S FACILITIES.
Any pavements, sidewalks or curbing taken up and any and all excavations made
shall be done in such a manner as to cause only such inconvenience to the
inhabitants of Grantor and the general public as is reasonably necessary, and
repairs and replacements shall be made promptly by Grantee, leaving such
properties in as good as condition as existed immediately prior to excavation.
Grantee agrees that for the term of this franchise, it will use its best
efforts to maintain its facilities and equipment in a condition sufficient to
meet the current and future energy requirements of Grantor, its inhabitants,
and industries. While maintaining its facilities and equipment, Grantee shall
obtain permits as required by ordinance and will fix its excavations within a
commercially reasonable time period, except that in emergency situations
Grantee shall take such immediate unilateral actions as it determines are
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; in which case,
Grantee shall notify Grantor as soon as reasonably possible. Within a
reasonable time thereafter, Grantee shall request and Grantor shall issue any
permits or authorizations required by Grantor for the actions conducted by
Grantee during the emergency situation. Grantor will give Grantee reasonable
notice of plans for street improvements where paving or resurfacing of a
permanent nature is involved that affects Grantee’s facilities. The notice
shall contain the nature and character of the improvements, the rights-of-way
upon which the improvements are to be made, the extent of the improvements, and
the time when the Grantor will start the work, and, if more than one right-of-
way is involved, the order in which the work is to proceed. The notice shall be
given to the Grantee as soon as practical in advance of the actual commencement
of the work, considering seasonable working conditions, to permit the Grantee
to make any additions, alterations, or repairs to its facilities.
110.07   EXTENSION OF GRANTEE’S FACILITIES.
Upon receipt and acceptance of a valid application for service, Grantee shall,
subject to its own economic feasibility criteria as approved by the Iowa
Utilities Board make reasonable extensions of its distribution facilities to
serve customers located within the current or future corporate limits of
Grantor.
110.08   RELOCATION OF GRANTEE’S FACILITIES.
If Grantor elects to change the grade of or otherwise alter any street, alley,
avenue, bridge, public right-of-way, or public place for a public purpose,
unless otherwise reimbursed by federal, State, or local legislative act or
governmental agency, Grantee, upon reasonable notice from Grantor, shall remove
and relocate its facilities or equipment situated in the public rights-of-way,
at the cost and expense of Grantee, if such removal is necessary to prevent
interference with Grantor’s facilities. If Grantor orders or requests Grantee
to relocate its facilities or equipment for the primary benefit of a commercial
or private project, or as a result of the initial request of a commercial or
private developer or other non-public entity, and such removal is necessary to
prevent interference with such project, then Grantee shall receive payment for
the cost of such relocation as a precondition to relocating its facilities or
equipment. Grantor shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its
public works projects and exercising its authority under this section so as not
to arbitrarily cause Grantee unreasonable additional expense. If alternative
public right-of-way space if available, Grantor shall also provide a reasonable
alternative location for Grantee’s facilities. Grantor shall give Grantee
written notice of an order or request to vacate a public right-of-way;
provided, however, that its receipt of such notice shall not deprive Grantee of
its right to operate and maintain its existing facilities in such public right-
of-way until it (a) if applicable, receives the reasonable cost of relocating
the same and (b) obtains a reasonable public right-of-way, dedicated utility
easement, or private easement alternative location for such facilities.
110.09   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
Grantor acknowledges that certain information it might request from Grantee
pursuant to this chapter may be of a proprietary and confidential nature, and
that such requests may be subject to the Homeland Security Act or other
confidentiality protections under State or federal law. If Grantee requests
that any information provided by Grantee to Grantor be kept confidential due to
its proprietary or commercial value, Grantor and its employees, agents and
representatives shall maintain the confidentiality of such information, to the
extent allowed by law. If Grantor is requested or required by legal or
administrative process to disclose any such proprietary or confidential
information, Grantor shall promptly notify Grantee of such request or
requirement so that Grantee may seek an appropriate protective order or other
relief.
110.10   FORCE MAJEURE.
It shall not be a breach or default under this chapter if either party fails to
perform its obligations hereunder due to force majeure. Force majeure shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
   1.   Physical events such as acts of God, landslides, lightning,
earthquakes, fires, freezing, storms, floods, washouts, explosions, breakage,
or accident or necessity of repairs to machinery, equipment or distribution or
transmission lines;
   2.   Acts of others such as strikes, work-force stoppages, riots, sabotage,
insurrections or wars;
   3.   Governmental actions such as necessity for compliance with any court
order, law, statute, ordinance, executive order, or regulation promulgated by a
governmental authority having jurisdiction; and
   4.   Any other causes, whether of the kind herein enumerated or otherwise
not reasonably within the control of the affected party to prevent or overcome.
Each party shall make reasonable efforts to avoid force majeure and to resolve
such event as promptly as reasonably possible once it occurs in order to resume
performance of its obligations hereunder; provided, however, that this
provision shall not obligate a party to settle any labor strike.
110.11   HOLD HARMLESS.
Grantee, during the term of this franchise, agrees to save harmless Grantor
from and against all claims, demands, losses and expenses arising directly out
of the negligence of Grantee, its employees or agents, in constructing,
operating, and maintaining its distribution and transmission facilities or
equipment; provided, however, that Grantee need not save Grantor harmless from
claims, demands, losses and expenses arising out of the negligence of Grantor,
its employees or agents.
110.12   SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.
All rights, privileges and authority granted to Grantee hereunder shall inure
to the benefit of Grantee’s lessees, successors, and assigns, subject to the
terms, provisions and conditions herein contained, and all obligations imposed
upon Grantee hereunder shall be binding upon Grantee’s lessees, successors, and
assigns.
110.13   NO THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARIES.
This chapter constitutes a franchise agreement between the Grantor and Grantee.
No provision of this chapter shall inure to the benefit of any third person,
including the public at large, so as to constitute any such person as a third-
party beneficiary of the agreement or of any one or more of the terms hereof,
or otherwise give rise to any cause of action for any person not a party
hereto.
110.14   NON-WAIVER.
Any waiver of any obligation or default under this chapter shall not be
construed as a waiver of any future defaults, whether of like or different
character.
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
 
111.01 Franchise Granted                111.07 Nonexclusive
111.02 Poles and Wires; Indemnification 111.08 Continuous Service
111.03 Excavations                      111.09 Franchise Fee
111.04 Construction and Maintenance     111.10 Term of Franchise
111.05 Trimming of Trees                111.11 Entire Agreement
111.06 System Requirements               
 
111.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to Interstate Power and Light Company, hereinafter
referred to as the “Company,” its successors and assigns, the right and
franchise to acquire, construct, reconstruct, erect, maintain and operate in
the City, works and plants for the manufacture and generation of electricity
and a distribution system for electric light, heat and power and the right to
erect and maintain the necessary poles, lines, wires, conduits and other
appliances for the distribution of electric current along, under and upon the
streets, alleys and public places in the said City to supply individuals,
corporations, communities, and municipalities both inside and outside of said
City with electric light, heat and power for the period of 25 years; also the
right of eminent domain as provided in Section 364.2 of the Code of Iowa.† 6
 
Notes
6 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 03-2014, adopting an electric franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on July 12, 2014.
111.02   POLES AND WIRES; INDEMNIFICATION.
The poles, lines, wires, circuits, and other appliances shall be placed and
maintained so as not to unnecessarily interfere with the travel on said
streets, alleys, and public places in said City nor unnecessarily interfere
with the proper use of the same, including ordinary drainage, or with the
sewers, underground pipe, and other property of the City. The said Company, its
successors and assigns shall hold the City free and harmless from all damages
to the extent arising from the negligent acts or omissions of the Company in
the erection or maintenance of said system.
111.03   EXCAVATIONS.
In making any excavations in any street, alley, or public place, Company, its
successors and assigns, shall protect the site while work is in progress by
guards, barriers, or signals, shall not unnecessarily obstruct the use of the
streets, and shall back fill all openings in such manner as to prevent settling
or depressions in surface, pavement, or sidewalk of such excavations with same
materials, restoring the condition as nearly as practical. The Company shall
not be required to restore or modify public right-of-way, sidewalks, or other
areas in or adjacent to the Company project to a condition superior to its
immediate previously existing condition.
111.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
The Company shall, at its cost, locate and relocate its existing facilities or
equipment in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the City in such
manner as the City may at any time reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley or any public improvement thereof, in or about any such street
or alley or reasonably promoting the efficient operation of any such
improvement. If the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its
existing facilities or equipment for any reason other than as specified above,
or as the result of the initial request of a commercial or private developer,
the Company shall receive payment for the cost of such relocation as a
precondition to relocating its existing facilities or equipment. The City shall
consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works projects so as
not arbitrarily to cause the Company unreasonable additional expense in
exercising its authority under this section. The City shall also provide a
reasonable alternative location for the Company’s facilities as part of its
relocation request. Prior to the City abandoning or vacating any street,
avenue, alley, or public ground where the Company has electric facilitates, the
City shall grant the Company a utility easement for said facilities. If the
City fails to grant the Company a utility easement for said facilities prior to
abandoning or vacating a street, avenue, alley or public place, the City shall
at its cost and expense obtain easements for existing Company facilities. The
Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense, Company
facilities in the public right-of-way that have been relocated at Company
expense at the direction of the City in the previous 10 years.
111.05   TRIMMING OF TREES.
The Company is authorized and empowered to prune or remove at Company expense
any tree extending into any street, alley, or public grounds to maintain
electric reliability, safety, to restore utility service and to prevent limbs,
branches, or trunks from interfering with the wires and facilities of the
Company. The pruning and removal of trees shall be performed in accordance with
Company’s then current line clearance vegetation plan as filed and approved by
the Iowa Utility Board, as well as all applicable codes and standards
referenced therein.
111.06   SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish electric energy in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board and the
Company’s tariffs. The Company will maintain compliance with Iowa Utilities
Board regulatory standards for reliability.
111.07   NONEXCLUSIVE.
The franchise granted by this chapter shall not be exclusive.
111.08   CONTINUOUS SERVICE.
Service to be rendered by the Company under this franchise shall be continuous
unless prevented from doing so by fire, acts of God, unavoidable accidents or
casualties, or reasonable interruptions necessary to properly service the
Company’s equipment, and in such event service shall be resumed as quickly as
is reasonably possible.
111.09   FRANCHISE FEE.
   1.   In its monthly billing the Company shall include a franchise fee of
three percent on the gross receipts from the sale of electricity to the
Company’s electric customers located within the corporate limits of the City.
   2.   The franchise fee shall be applied to all customers’ bills in
accordance with Chapters 364.2 and 423B.5 of the Code of Iowa. The amount of
the franchise fee shall be shown separately on the utility bill to each
customer.
   3.   The Company will commence collecting franchise fees on or before the
first Company billing cycle of the first calendar month following 90 days of
receipt of information required of the City to implement the franchise fee.
This information shall include, but not be limited to, a copy of the City’s
Revenue Purpose Statement and written proof of legal adoption and publication
of the Revenue Purpose Statement, City’s list of City utility accounts exempt
per Iowa law from the franchise fee, signed Nondisclosure Agreement pertaining
to the protection of the confidentiality of utility service address information
provided by the Company to the City, and the City’s verified utility customer
service address list. The Company shall not commence assessing the franchise
fee until it has received written approval of the amended tax rider tariff from
the Iowa Utilities Board.
   4.   The City recognizes that the costs of franchise fee administration are
not charged directly to the City and the City and Company agree that the
Company may only charge such administrative fees as are provided for in State
statute.
   5.   Upon receipt of a final and unappealable order or approval authorizing
annexation, or changes in the corporate limits of said City, the City
Administrator/Clerk shall provide written notification by certified mail to an
officer of Company of such annexation or change in the limits of said City, and
the Company shall apply the franchise fee to its customers who are affected by
the annexation or change in the corporate limits of the City, commencing on an
agreed upon date which is not less than 90 days from receipt of the information
required of the City to implement the franchise fee. The Company shall have no
obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in any annexed area until
and unless the following have all been provided to the Company by certified
mail: such final and unappealable orders or approvals, the City’s list of City
utility accounts exempt from the franchise fee in the annexed area, and the
City’s verified utility customer service address list for the annexed area.
   6.   The City shall indemnify the Company from claims of any nature arising
out of or related to the imposition and collection of the franchise fee. In
addition, the Company shall not be liable for collecting franchise fees from
any customer originally or subsequently identified, or incorrectly identified,
by the City as being subject to the franchise fee or being exempt from the
imposition of franchise fees.
   7.   The Company shall remit franchise fee receipts to the City no more
frequently than on or before the last business day of the month following each
calendar year quarter. Company shall notify City at least 30 days in advance of
any changes made in this collection schedule, including any alterations in the
calendar quarters or any other changes in the remittance periods.
   8.   The City shall give the Company a minimum six-month notice prior to the
request to implement any adjustment in the percentage of franchise fee to be
collected pursuant to Subsection 1 hereof. The City agrees to modify the level
of franchise fees imposed only once in any 24-month period. When any such
ordinance increasing, decreasing, modifying, or eliminating the franchise fee
shall become effective, billings reflecting the change shall commence on an
agreed upon date which is not less than 90 days following written notice to the
Company by certified mail. The Company shall not be required to implement such
new percentage unless and until it determines that it has received appropriate
official documentation of final action by the Council. In no event may the
percentage of franchise fee exceed the statutory amount authorized by Iowa law.
   9.   The City shall be solely responsible for the proper use of any amounts
collected as franchise fees, and shall only use such fees as collected for a
purpose as allowed by applicable law.
   10.   The Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return
or refund any franchise fees that have been collected from City customers and
remitted to the City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or
information in defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the
Company is required to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating
any franchise fee refunds for groups of customers or individual customers, the
City shall reimburse the Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to
provide such data or information.
   11.   Collection of the franchise fee shall cease at the earlier of the
modification or repeal of the franchise fee or the end of the franchise term.
      A.   The obligation to collect and remit the fee imposed by this chapter
is modified if:
         (1)   Any other person is authorized to sell electricity to customers
within the corporate limits of the City and the City imposes a franchise fee or
its lawful equivalent at zero or a lesser rate than provided in this chapter,
in which case the obligation of Company to collect and remit franchise fee
shall be modified to zero or the lesser rate; or
         (2)   The City adds additional territory by annexation or
consolidation and is unable or unwilling to impose the franchise fee upon all
persons selling electricity to consumers within the additional territory, in
which case the franchise fee imposed on the revenue from sales by Company in
the additional territory shall be three percent or equal to that of the lowest
fee being paid by any other retail seller of electricity within the City; or
         (3)   The Iowa General Assembly enacts legislation, or any State court
issues a final judicial decision regarding franchise fees, or the Iowa
Utilities Board issues a final nonappealable order (collectively, “Final
Franchise Fee Action”) that modifies, but does not repeal, the ability of the
City to impose a franchise fee or the ability of Company to collect from City
customers and remit franchise fees to City. Within 60 days of Final Franchise
Fee Action, the City shall notify Company and the parties shall meet to
determine whether this chapter can be revised, and, if so, how to revise the
franchise fee on a continuing basis to meet revised legal requirements. After
Final Franchise Fee Action and until passage by the City of revisions to the
franchise fee ordinance, Company may temporarily discontinue collection and
remittance of the franchise fee if, in its sole opinion, it believes it is
required to do so in order to comply with revised legal requirements.
      B.   The obligation to collect and remit the fee imposed by this chapter
is repealed, effective as of the date specified in the franchise ordinance with
no liability therefor, if:
         (1)   Any of the imposition, collection or remittance of a franchise
fee is ruled to be unlawful by the Supreme Court of Iowa, effective as of the
date of such ruling or as may be specified by that Court; or
         (2)   The Iowa General Assembly enacts legislation making imposition,
collection, or remittance of a franchise fee unlawful, effective as of the date
lawfully specified by the General Assembly; or
         (3)   The Iowa Utilities Board, or any successor agency, denies the
Company the right to impose, collect or remit a franchise fee provided such
denial is affirmed by the Supreme Court of Iowa, effective as of the date of
the final agency order from which the appeal is taken.
   12.   The franchise fee shall be in lieu of any other payments to the City
for the Company’s use of streets, alleys, and public places in the said City
and other administrative or regulatory costs with regard to said franchise; and
said poles, lines, wires, conduits, and other appliances for the distribution
of electric current along, under and upon the streets, alleys, and public
places in the said City to supply individuals, corporations, communities, and
municipalities both inside and outside of said City with electric light, heat,
and power shall be exempt from any special tax, assessment, license, or rental
charge during the entire term of this franchise.
   13.   The City shall not, pursuant to Chapter 480A.6 of the Code of Iowa,
impose or charge right-of-way management fees upon the Company or fees for
permits for Company construction, maintenance, repairs, excavation, pavement
cutting, or inspections of Company work sites and projects or related matters.
111.10   TERM OF FRANCHISE.
The term of the franchise granted by the ordinance codified by this chapter and
the rights granted thereunder shall continue for the period of 25 years from
and after its acceptance by the said Company.
111.11   ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
This chapter sets forth and constitutes the entire agreement between the
Company and the City with respect to the rights contained herein, and may not
be supplemented, superseded, modified, or otherwise amended without the
approval and acceptance of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no
event shall the City enact any ordinance or place any limitations, either
operationally or through the assessment of fees other than those approved and
accepted by the Company within this chapter, that create additional burdens
upon the Company, or which delay utility operations.
CHAPTER 113
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE REGULATIONS
113.01 Definitions                        113.33 Identification of Employees
113.02 Franchise Required                 113.34 System Design and Equipment
                                          Requirements
113.03 Grant of Franchise                 113.35 Franchise Fee
113.04 Length of Franchise                113.36 Rates and Charges
113.05 Significance of Franchise          113.37 Franchise Renewal
113.06 Rights Reserved to the City        113.38 Conditions of Sale
113.07 Application For Franchise          113.39 Transfer of Franchise
113.08 Acceptance and Effective Date of   113.40 Right of Inspection of
Franchise                                 Construction
113.09 Geographical Coverage              113.41 New Developments
113.10 Conditions of Street Occupancy     113.42 Testing For Compliance
113.11 Restoration of Public Ways         113.43 Books and Records
113.12 Relocation at Request of City      113.44 Communications with Regulatory
                                          Agencies
113.13 Safety Requirements                113.45 Complaint Records
113.14 Underground and Overground         113.46 City Role in Complaints
Installation
Requirements                              113.47 Performance Testing
113.15 Extension of Service               113.48 Review Sessions
113.16 Service to Public Buildings        113.49 Regulatory Responsibility
113.17 Customer Service Standards – FCC 113.50 Annual Report
Model
113.18 Local Payment Center               113.51 Insurance and Indemnification
113.19 Deposits                           113.52 Foreclosure
113.20 Subscribers’ Antennas            113.53 Receivership
113.21 Disconnection                      113.54 Continuity of Service
113.22 Reconnections                      113.55 Franchise Processing Costs
113.23 Downgrades                         113.56 Taxes
113.24 Termination of Service             113.57 Enforcement and Termination of
                                          Franchise
113.25 Notification to City of Service    113.58 Security Fund
Interruptions
113.26 Subscriber Credit For Service      113.59 Faithful Performance Bond
Interruptions
113.27 Service Repair Standards           113.60 Violations and Penalties
113.28 Refunds To Subscribers             113.61 Actions of Parties
113.29 Channel Card                       113.62 Equal Protection
113.30 Customer Handbook                  113.63 Notices
113.31 Subscriber Privacy                 113.64 Waiver or Exemption
113.32 Discriminatory or Preferential      
Practices
 
113.01   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Basic cable” means the lowest priced tier of service that includes the
retransmission of local broadcast television signals and any public,
educational, and governmental access channels.
   2.   “Cable Act” means collectively the Cable Communications Policy Act of
1984 and the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992,
as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
   3.   “Cable operator” means as defined in the Cable Act.
   4.   “Cable service” means as defined in the Cable Act.
   5.   “Cable system” means as defined in the Cable Act.
   6.   “FCC” means Federal Communications Commission or successor governmental
entity thereto.
   7.   “Franchise” means the initial authorization or renewal thereof, issued
by the City, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit,
license, resolution, contract, certificate, or otherwise, which authorizes
construction and operation of the cable system.
   8.   “Grantee” means any person, firm, corporation, or other entity granted
a franchise hereunder, or the lawful successor, transferee, or assignee
thereof.
   9.   “Gross revenues” means any and all revenue received by the Grantee from
the operation of the cable system to provide cable service to subscribers in
the service area, provided, however, that such phrase does not include any fees
or franchise fees or taxes which are imposed directly or indirectly on any
subscriber thereof by any governmental unit or agency, and which are collected
by the Grantee on behalf of such governmental unit or agency.
   10.   “Headend” means the land, electronic processing equipment, antennas,
tower, building and other appurtenances normally associated with and located at
the starting point of a cable system.
   11.   “House drop” or “drop” means a cable that connects each building or
home to the nearest feeder line of the cable network.
   12.   “Normal business hours” means those hours during which most similar
businesses in the community are open to serve subscribers. In all cases,
“normal business hours,” at a minimum, means those hours when the City Hall is
open to serve citizens.
   13.   “Normal operating conditions” means those service conditions which are
within the control of the Grantee. Those conditions which are not within the
control of the Grantee include (but are not limited to) natural disasters,
strikes, civil disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages and
severe or unusual weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily
within the control of the Grantee include (but are not limited to) special
promotions, pay-per-view events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal
demand periods and maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
   14.   “Outlet” means the point of connection of the cable or wire to a
television.
   15.   “Person” means an individual, partnership, association, joint stock
company, trust corporation or governmental entity.
   16.   “Private property” means all property, real, personal, or mixed, owned
by a private person, including property owned by a public utility not owned or
operated by the City.
   17.   “Property of the Grantee” means all property, real, personal, or
mixed, owned or used by the Grantee however arising from or related to or
connected with the franchise.
   18.   “Public access channel” means channel capacity designated for non-
commercial public access use.
   19.   “Public property” means all property, real or personal or mixed, owned
or used by the City, including property owned or used by a public utility owned
or operated by the City.
   20.   “Public way” means the surface of, and the space above and below any
public street, highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard,
sidewalk, parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle or other public right-
of-way, including, but not limited to, public utility easements, dedicated
utility strips or rights-of-way dedicated for compatible uses and any temporary
or permanent fixtures or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by
the City in the service area which shall entitle the City and the Grantee to
the use thereof for the purpose of installing, operating, repairing and
maintaining the cable system. “Public way” also means any easement now or
hereafter held by the City within the service area for the purpose of public
travel, or for utility or public service use dedicated for compatible uses, and
includes other easements or rights-of-way as shall within their proper use and
meaning entitle the City and the Grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of
installing and operating the Grantee’s cable system over poles, wires, cables,
conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances,
attachments, and other property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to
the cable system.
   21.   “Service area” means the present municipal boundaries of the City.
   22.   “Service interruption” means the loss of video or audio on one or more
channels.
   23.   “Service tier” means a category of cable service or other services
provided by a cable operator and for which a separate rate is charged by the
cable operator.
   24.   “Subscriber” means a person who lawfully receives services of the
cable system with the Grantee’s express permission.
113.02   FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
Subject to federal and State law, no person shall construct, install, maintain,
or operate within any public street in the City, or within any other public
property of the City, any equipment or facilities for the distribution of
television signals over a cable system to any subscriber, unless a franchise
authorizing the use of the streets or properties or areas has first been
obtained pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and unless such franchise
is in full force and effect.
113.03   GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
The purpose of this chapter is to specify requirements for the establishment,
construction, operation, and maintenance of a cable system in the City pursuant
to Chapter 364, Code of Iowa, and applicable federal law. If a new applicant
submits a proposal acceptable to the City, meets the requirements of this
chapter, the requirements of the FCC and applicable State law, the City may
then proceed to enter into a nonexclusive franchise agreement with such
prospective Grantee, subject to the provisions of this chapter. If the
incumbent operator submits a proposal acceptable under the terms of the Cable
Act, and meets the requirements of the FCC, the City shall proceed to fulfill
its obligations under Section 626 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
113.04   LENGTH OF FRANCHISE.
The term of a franchise and all rights, privileges, obligations, and
restrictions pertaining thereto shall be determined by the City in the
Franchise Agreement.
113.05   SIGNIFICANCE OF FRANCHISE.
   1.   Franchise Nonexclusive. Any franchise granted hereunder by the City
shall not be exclusive and the City reserves the right to grant a similar
franchise to any qualified person at any time.
   2.   Privileges Must Be Specified. No privilege of exemption shall be
inferred from the granting of any franchise, unless it is specifically
prescribed.
   3.   Authority Granted. Any franchise granted hereunder shall give to the
Grantee the right and privilege to construct, erect, operate, modify and
maintain in, upon, along, above, over and under streets and public ways, as
defined in Section
113.01 herein, which have been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public
use in the City, towers, antennas, poles, cables, electronic equipment, and
other network appurtenances necessary for the operation of a cable system in
the City, subject to the requirements of this chapter.
   4.   Subject to Other Regulatory Agencies’ Rules and Regulations. The
Grantee shall at all times during the life of any franchise granted hereunder
be subject to all generally applicable ordinances promulgated pursuant to the
lawful exercise of the police power by the City.
   5.   Pole Use Agreements Required. Any franchise granted hereunder shall not
relieve the Grantee of any obligation involved in obtaining pole or conduit-use
agreements from the gas, electric and the telephone companies or others
maintaining poles or conduits in the streets of the City.
   6.   Ordinance Revisions. Any franchises granted under this chapter are made
subject to the lawful revisions of this chapter and this Code of Ordinances,
provided that such revisions do not materially alter or impair the rights or
the obligations of Grantee set forth in any Franchise Agreement and are
mutually agreed to by the City and Grantees.
113.06   RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE CITY.
   1.   Right of Amendment Reserved to City. The City may from time to time add
to, modify, or delete provisions of this chapter as it shall deem necessary in
the exercise of its lawful police powers and as may be mutually agreed to by
the City and Grantee. Such additions or revisions shall be made only after a
public hearing for which the Grantee shall have received written notice at
least 30 days prior to such hearing.
   2.   No Impairment of City’s Rights. Nothing herein shall be deemed or
construed to impair or affect in any way to any extent any right of the City
pursuant to Iowa law.
   3.   Grantee Agrees to City’s Rights. The City reserves every right and
power which is required to be reserved or provided by an ordinance of the City,
and the Grantee, by its acceptance of the franchise, agrees to be bound thereby
and to comply with any action or requirements of the City in its exercise of
such rights or powers which have been or will be enacted or established subject
to the provisions of subsection 1 of this section.
   4.   Police Powers of the City. Neither the granting of any franchise nor
any provision governing the franchise shall constitute a waiver of any lawful
governmental right or power of the City.
   5.   City Transfer of Functions. Any administrative right or power in or
administrative duty imposed upon any elected official of the City shall be
subject to transfer by the City to any other elected official, officer,
employee, department, or board.
   6.   City Right of Inspection. The City reserves the right, during the life
of any franchise granted hereunder, to inspect and oversee all construction or
installation work performed in the public right-of-way.
   7.   City Right of Network Installation. The City reserves the right during
the life of any franchise granted hereunder to install and maintain for a
reasonable charge upon or in the poles and conduits of the Grantee and pole
fixtures necessary for municipal networks on the condition that such
installation and maintenance thereof does not interfere with the operation of
the Grantee. The Grantee agrees that such compensation or charge shall not
exceed those paid by it to public utilities pursuant to the applicable pole
attachment agreement or other authorization relating to the service area and
such use shall be non-commercial and may not be supplied for any municipal use
directly competing with the Grantee.
113.07   APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE.
No initial franchise may be granted unless the applicant has successfully
completed the application procedure in accordance with the following filing
instructions promulgated by the City:
   1.   Filing Fee. Payment of a non-refundable filing fee to the City of
$100.00, which sum shall be due and payable at the time with the submission of
the application.
   2.   Content. All applicants must complete an application which shall
include (but not be limited to) the following:
      A.   Name and Address of Applicant. The name and business address of the
applicant, date of application, and signature of applicant or appropriate
corporate officer(s).
      B.   Description of Proposed Operation. A general description of the
applicant’s proposed operation, including but not limited to business hours,
operating staff, maintenance procedures beyond those required in the chapter,
management and marketing staff policies and procedures, and, if available, the
rules of operation for public access.
      C.   Signal Carriage. A statement of the television and radio services to
be provided, including both off-the-air and locally originated signals.
      D.   Special Services. A statement setting forth a description of the
automated services proposed as well as a description of the production
facilities to be made available by the Grantee for the public, governmental and
educational channels required to be made available by the provisions of this
chapter.
      E.   Corporate Organization. A statement detailing the corporation
organization of the applicant, if any, including the names and addresses of its
officers and directors and the number of shares held by each officer and
director.
      F.   Stockholders. A statement identifying the number of authorized
outstanding shares of applicant’s stock including a current list of the names
and current addresses of its shareholders holding five percent or more of the
applicant’s outstanding stock.
      G.   Inter-Company Relationships. A statement describing all inter-
company relationships of the applicant, including parent, subsidiary, or
affiliated companies.
      H.   Agreements and Understandings. A statement setting forth all
agreements and understandings, whether written or oral, existing between the
applicant and any other person with respect to any franchise awarded hereunder
and the conduct of the operation thereof existing at the time of proposal
submittal.
      I.   Financial Statement. A copy of the financial statements for the two
previous fiscal years.
      J.   Financial Projection. A five-year operation pro forma which shall
include the initial and continuing plant investment, annual profit and loss
statements detailing income and expenses, annual balance sheets, and annual
levels of subscriber penetration. Costs and revenues anticipated for voluntary
services shall, if presented, be incorporated in the pro forma as required in
this chapter, but shall be separately identified in the pro forma.
      K.   Financial Support. Suitable written evidence from a recognized
financial institution addressing applicant’s financial ability and planned
operation, and confirming that the financing institution is prepared to make
the required funds available to applicant if it is awarded a franchise. If the
planned operation is to be internally financed, a board resolution shall be
supplied authorizing the obtainment and expenditure of such funds as are
required to construct, install, and operate the cable television system
contemplated hereunder.
      L.   Construction Timetable. A description of system construction
including the timetable for provision and extension of service to different
parts of the City.
      M.   Technical Description. A technical description of the type of system
proposed by the applicant, including but not limited to system configuration
(i.e., hub, dual cable), system capacity, two-way capability, etc.
      N.   Existing Franchises. A statement of existing franchises held by the
applicant indicating when the franchises were issued and when the cable systems
were constructed and the present state of the cable systems in each respective
governmental unit, together with the name and address and phone number of a
responsible governmental official knowledgeable of the applicant.
      O.   Convictions. A statement as to whether the applicant or any of its
officers or directors or holders of five percent or more of its voting stock
has in the past 10 years been convicted of or has any charges pending for any
crime other than a routine traffic offense and the disposition of each such
case.
      P.   Operating Experience. A statement detailing the prior cable
television experience of the applicant, including that of the applicant’s
officers, management, and staff to be associated, where known, with the
proposed franchise.
      Q.   Supplementation to Applications. The City reserves the right to
require such supplementary, additional, or other information that the City
deems reasonably necessary for its determinations. Such modifications,
deletions, additions, or amendments to the application shall be considered only
if specifically requested by the City.
      R.   Incorporation of Proposals. The Grantee, by the acceptance of any
initial franchise awarded hereunder, agrees that the matters contained in the
Grantee’s application for franchise, except as inconsistent with the FCC rules
and regulations, law, or ordinance, shall be incorporated into the franchise as
though set out verbatim.
      S.   Forfeiture of Proposal Bond. Should the Grantee fail to comply with
the requirements of this section, it shall acquire no rights, privileges, or
authority under this chapter whatever, and the amount of the proposal bond or
certified check in lieu thereof, submitted with its application, shall be
forfeited in full to the City as liquidated damages.
113.08   ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE.
   1.   Franchise Acceptance; Procedures. Any initial franchise awarded
hereunder or franchise renewal and the rights, privileges and authority granted
thereby shall take effect and be in force from and after the award thereof,
provided that the Grantee shall file with the City the following:
      A.   A statement by the Grantee of the unconditional acceptance of the
franchise;
      B.   A certificate of insurance as set forth in Section
113.51;
      C.   Reimbursement to the City for the costs of publication of the
franchise ordinance and the holding of the election connected therewith, if
required by law.
   2.   Grantee to Have No Recourse. In accordance with Section 635A of the
Cable Act, the Grantee shall have no monetary recourse whatsoever against the
City for any loss, cost, expense, or damage arising out of any provision or
requirement of this chapter or its regulation. This shall not include negligent
acts of the City, its agents or employees which are performed outside the
regulatory or franchise awarding authority hereunder.
   3.   Acceptance of Power and Authority of City. The Grantee expressly
acknowledges that in accepting any franchise awarded hereunder, it has relied
upon its own investigation and understanding of the power and authority of the
City to grant this franchise.
   4.   Inducements Not Offered. The Grantee, by acceptance of any franchise
awarded hereunder, acknowledges that it has not been induced to enter into this
franchise by any understanding or promise or other statement, whether verbal or
written, by or in behalf of the City concerning any term or condition of this
franchise that is not included in this chapter and Franchise Agreement.
   5.   Grantee Accepts Terms of Franchise. The Grantee acknowledges by the
acceptance of the franchise and the terms herein that it has carefully read
said terms and conditions and it is willing to and does accept all other
obligations of such terms and conditions and further agrees that it will not
claim that any provision of this chapter, or any franchise granted hereunder,
is unreasonable or arbitrary.
113.09   GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE.
The Grantee shall provide a cable system in such manner as to pass and provide
adequate tap off facilities for every single family dwelling unit, multiple
dwelling unit or other residential unit within the service area, subject to the
provisions of the Franchise Agreement.
113.10   CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
All transmission and distribution structures, poles, other lines, and equipment
installed or erected by the Grantee pursuant to the terms hereof shall be
located so as to cause a minimum of interference with the proper use of public
ways and with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who own
property that adjoins any of such public ways. A Grantee shall first obtain a
permit from the City prior to commencing construction on the streets, alleys,
public grounds, or places and shall be on a form provided by the City. A
Grantee shall not open or disturb the surface of any street, sidewalk,
driveway, or public place for any purpose without having first obtained a
permit to do so in the manner provided by ordinance. All excavation shall be
coordinated with other utility excavation or construction so as to minimize
disruption to the public.
113.11   RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
If, during the course of the Grantee’s construction, operation, or maintenance
of the cable system, there occurs a disturbance of any public way by the
Grantee, it shall, at its expense, replace and restore such public way to a
condition reasonably comparable to the condition of the public way existing
immediately prior to such disturbance.
113.12   RELOCATION AT REQUEST OF CITY.
Upon its receipt of reasonable advance notice, not to be less than 10 business
days, the Grantee shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in the public way, or remove from the public way, any
property of the Grantee when lawfully required by the City by reason of traffic
conditions, public safety, street abandonment, freeway, and street
construction, change, or establishment of street grade, installation of sewers,
drains, gas, or water pipes, or any other type of structures or improvements by
the City; however, the Grantee shall in all cases have the right of abandonment
of its property. If public funds are available to any person using such street,
easement, or right-of-way for the purpose of defraying the cost of any of the
foregoing, the City shall provide notice to the Grantee of the City’s
application for such funds and shall allow the Grantee to apply on its own
behalf for such funds.
113.13   SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
Construction, installation, and maintenance of the system shall be performed in
an orderly and worker-like manner. All such work shall be performed in
substantial accordance with applicable FCC or other federal, State, and local
regulations and the National Electric Safety Code. The cable system shall not
unreasonably endanger or interfere with the safety of persons or property in
the service area.
113.14   UNDERGROUND AND OVERGROUND INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Pole Agreements. The Grantee may lease, rent, or in any other manner by
mutual agreement obtain the use of towers, poles, lines, cables, and other
equipment and facilities from utility companies operating within the City, and
use towers, poles, lines, cables, and other equipment and facilities for the
system. When and where practicable, the poles used by the Grantee’s
distribution system shall be those erected and maintained by such utility
companies operating within the City, provided mutually satisfactory rental
agreements can be reached. It is the City’s desire that all holders of public
franchises in the City cooperate with the Grantee and allow the Grantee the use
of their poles and pole line facilities whenever possible so that the number of
new or additional poles installed in the City may be minimized.
   2.   Grantee’s Poles. The Grantee shall have the right to erect, install,
and maintain its own towers, poles, guys, anchors, underground conduits, and
manholes as may be necessary for the proper construction and maintenance of the
antenna site, headend, and distribution system, providing that the Grantee has
at the worksite the necessary City permit or copy thereof, for scheduled work,
obtained in advance from the appropriate department of the City.
   3.   Rent of Grantee’s Poles. A Grantee shall have the right to establish
terms, conditions, and specifications governing the form, type, size, quantity,
and location of equipment of others on its poles, and shall have the further
right to charge a fair rental for attachment space or spaces occupied by the
said equipment and plant of others, except that no rent shall be paid by the
City for its attachment to the Grantee’s poles and such use shall be non-
commercial and may not be supplied for any municipal use directly competing
with the Grantee. The City shall pay any costs incurred by a Grantee in
providing space for a City’s attachments, including any necessary
rearrangements of a Grantee’s equipment and plant to provide room for City’s
attachments. Upon expiration, termination, or revocation of a franchise, or
should a Grantee wish to dispose of any of its poles, conduit or manholes being
used by the City, the City shall have the option to purchase them in place for
their fair market value.
   4.   Underground Facilities. In those areas of the City where transmission
or distribution facilities of both telephone and power companies are
underground or hereafter may be placed underground, the Grantee shall likewise
construct, operate, and maintain all of its transmission and distribution
facilities underground to the maximum extent the then existing technology
permits, in accordance with the most recent National Electrical Code, and its
successor document, as well as in conformance with all applicable State and
municipal ordinances and codes. If and when necessary, amplifiers and/or
transformers in the Grantee’s transmission and distribution lines shall be in
appropriate housings on the surface of the ground. The Grantee shall obtain a
permit from the City for such underground construction of all work required or
pursuant to this section. Even when not required, underground installation is
preferable to the placing of additional poles.
   5.   Compliance with Codes. All transmission and distribution structures,
lines, and equipment erected by the Grantee in the City shall be located so as
not to endanger or interfere with the normal use of streets, alleys, or other
public ways and places so as to cause minimum interference with the rights or
reasonable convenience of the general public and adjoining property owners and
so as not to interfere with existing public utility installations and so as to
comply with the most recent National Electrical Code, as amended, as well as in
conformance with all applicable State and municipal ordinances and codes of
general applicability. In the case of any disturbance by the Grantee or its
equipment of pavement, sidewalks, driveway, lawn, or other surfacing the
Grantee shall, at its expense and in the manner required by the City, promptly
replace and restore all such surfacing to a reasonably comparable condition.
The construction, installation, operation, maintenance and/or removal of the
cable communications system shall meet all of the following safety,
construction, and technical specifications and codes and standards:
      A.   Occupational Safety and Health Administration Regulations (OSHA)
      B.   National Electric Code
      C.   National Electrical Safety Code (NESC)
      D.   All Federal, State and Municipal Construction Requirements,
including FCC Rules and Regulations
      E.   All Building and Zoning Codes, as the same exist or may be amended
hereafter
      F.   City Standard Specifications
   6.   Interference with Other Utilities. The Grantee shall not place poles,
conduits, or other fixtures above or below ground where the same shall
interfere with any prior placement of gas, electric, telephone fixtures, water
hydrant, or other utilities, and all such poles, conduits, or other fixtures
above or below ground shall be so placed as to comply with all the lawful
requirements of the City.
   7.   Moving Permits. The Grantee shall, on request of any persons holding a
moving permit issued by the City, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to
permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal shall be
paid in advance by the person requesting the same, and the Grantee shall be
given not less than seven business days’ advance notice to arrange for such
temporary changes.
   8.   Authority to Trim Trees and Shrubbery. The Grantee shall have the
authority under the supervision and direction of the City to trim trees or
other natural growth overhanging any of its cable system in the street or alley
right-of-way so as to prevent branches from coming in contact with the
Grantee’s wires, cables, or other equipment. The Grantee shall reasonably
compensate the City or property owner for any damages caused by such trimming,
or shall, in its sole discretion, and at its own cost and expense, reasonably
replace all trees or shrubs damaged as a result of any construction of the
cable system undertaken by Grantee. Such replacement shall satisfy any and all
obligations Grantee may have to the City pursuant to the terms of this section.
   9.   Service Area. The Grantee shall design and construct the cable system
in such a manner as to pass by and provide adequate tap-off facilities for
every single-family dwelling, multiple-family dwelling, apartment, school, and
government building located within the City limits, based upon the corporate
boundaries at the time of the granting of the franchise, provided that such
locations meet the density requirements pursuant to Section
113.15 - Extension of Service.
   10.   Underground Construction. Grantee shall participate in and use Iowa
One Call and ensure that cable is buried pursuant to standards established by
Iowa One Call or any state mandated successor agency.
   11.   Temporary Drops. Temporary drops shall be buried within two months of
installation, except during the winter months which shall be defined as
November 15 to April 1. In the event that the Grantee fails to bury any cable
drops, within the two-month period, the Grantee shall provide basic and
expanded basic cable service without charge to the affected cable subscriber
from the last date that the drop was to have been buried to that actual date
that it is buried.
   12.   Closing of Streets. The Grantee shall not be entitled to damages from
the City sustained by the virtue of the closing, vacation, or relocation of any
streets or alleys.
   13.   Private Easements. No cable, line, wire, amplifier, converter, or
other pieces of equipment owned by the Grantee shall be installed by the
Grantee within private easements without first securing the written permission
of the owner, lessee, or tenant of the property involved, unless a private
easement is determined to be available for use by the Grantee in accordance
with applicable law.
113.15   EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall require that a Grantee, at
its expense, promptly extend its system to have service available to all
potential subscribers of:
   1.   The corporate limits of the City and newly annexed areas to the City,
not then served by a cable system, where the average density is at least six
potential subscribers per lineal one-quarter mile of the proposed trunk and
feeder cable route; and
   2.   Any new single family dwelling unit, commercial establishment, or
potential subscriber within 300 feet of the existing distribution system in the
City, upon request of the potential subscriber.
No customer shall be refused service arbitrarily. However, for unusual
circumstances, such as: (i) existence of more than 300 feet of distance from
the distribution cable to the connection point of service to the customers; or
(ii) a density of less than six potential subscribers per 1320 feet of trunk or
distribution cable, service may be made available on the basis of a capital
contribution in aid of construction, including cost of material, labor, and
easements. For the purpose of determining the amount of capital contribution in
the aid of construction to be borne by the Grantee and the customers in the
area in which service may be expanded, the Grantee will contribute an amount
equal to the construction and other costs per one-quarter mile, multiplied by a
fraction whose numerator equals the actual number of residences per 1320 cable-
bearing strand feet of its trunks or distribution cable, and whose denominator
equals six potential subscribers. Customers who request service hereunder will
bear the remainder of the construction and other costs on a pro rata basis. The
Grantee may require that the payment of the capital contribution in aid of the
construction borne by such potential customers be paid in advance.
113.16   SERVICE TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
Any Grantee shall upon request, provide without charge, one outlet of basic
service and expanded basic service to those public buildings identified in the
franchise agreement in accordance with the terms set forth in the franchise
agreement.
113.17   CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS - FCC MODEL.
Any Grantee shall adhere to the FCC’s customer service standards. A copy of
such standards effective as of the date of the passage of the ordinance
codified in this chapter is on file at City Hall.
113.18   LOCAL PAYMENT CENTER.
A Grantee shall establish a payment drop box center located at City Hall, which
shall be open during normal business hours.
113.19   DEPOSITS.
If required by Federal law, a Grantee shall bear interest at the minimum
lending rate required by law on any subscriber deposit or a rate equal to that
paid by the City for electric deposits.
113.20   SUBSCRIBERS’ ANTENNAS.
A Grantee shall not require the removal of any potential or existing
subscriber’s antenna as a condition of provision of service, except with the
consent of the cable subscriber.
113.21   DISCONNECTION.
There shall be no charge for a disconnection of cable service. If any
subscriber fails to pay a fee or charge, a Grantee may disconnect the
subscriber’s service. Such disconnection shall not be effected until the
subscriber has been given 10 days’ advance written notice of the intention to
disconnect. After disconnection, upon payment of any required delinquent fee or
reconnection charge, the Grantee shall reinstate the subscriber’s service.
113.22   RECONNECTIONS.
A Grantee shall restore service to customers wishing restoration of service,
provided customer shall first satisfy any previous obligations owed.
113.23   DOWNGRADES.
Subscribers shall have the right to have cable service disconnected or
downgraded in accordance with FCC rules. The reduced billing for such service
will be in accordance with the Grantee’s policies communicated with
subscribers, but not in excess of seven days, and such disconnection or
downgrade shall be made as soon as practicable. A refund of unused service
charges shall be paid to the customer within 30 days from the date of
termination of service.
113.24   TERMINATION OF SERVICE
Within 30 days of termination of service to any subscriber for any reason, a
Grantee may, upon the subscriber’s written request, promptly remove all its
aerial facilities and equipment from the subscriber’s premises, pursuant to FCC
rules and regulations.
113.25   NOTIFICATION TO CITY OF SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS.
A Grantee shall promptly notify the City, in writing, or, if appropriate, by
oral communication, of any significant interruption in the operation of the
system. For the purposes of this section, a “significant interruption in the
operation of the system” means any interruption of audio or video on one or
more channels for a duration of at least one hour to at least 50 percent of the
subscribers, or an interruption of audio or video on at least one or more
channels initiated by the Grantee of at least six hours to any single
subscriber. The Grantee shall not be required to provide specific notice to the
City of service interruptions in the case of a cable system upgrade.
113.26   SUBSCRIBER CREDIT FOR SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS.
Upon service interruption of subscriber’s cable service, the following shall
apply:
   1.   For service interruptions of over four hours and up to seven days, the
Grantee shall provide, at the subscriber’s verbal or written request, a credit
of 1/30 of one month’s fees for affected services for each 24-hour period
service is interrupted for four or more hours for all affected subscribers.
   2.   For interruptions of 15 days or more in one month, the Grantee shall
provide, at the subscriber’s request, a full month’s credit for affected
services for all affected subscribers.
113.27   SERVICE REPAIR STANDARDS.
A Grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly, and interrupt
service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible. Scheduled
service interruptions, insofar as possible, shall occur during periods of
minimum use of the cable system. A written log or an equivalent stored in
computer memory and capable of access and reproduction, shall be maintained for
all service interruptions, as required by this chapter.
113.28   REFUNDS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
   1.   If a Grantee fails to provide any material service requested by a
subscriber in accordance with the current FCC standards, the Grantee shall,
after adequate notification and being afforded the opportunity to provide the
service, promptly refund all deposits or advance charges paid for the service
in question by the subscriber.
   2.   If any subscriber terminates for any other reason, a Grantee shall
refund the unused portion of any prepaid subscriber service fee on a daily pro
rata basis. The effective date used to pro rate such refunds shall be the date
that the subscriber contacts the Grantee or a mutually agreed upon date
consistent with communicated customer policies printed on the cable rate cards
provided by the Grantee.
   3.   Any disputes arising under this section shall be resolved in accordance
with Section
113.46 of this chapter.
113.29   CHANNEL CARD.
The Grantee shall distribute to all subscribers via direct mail or bill
stuffers no less than annually an accurate and up-to-date channel card listing
the cable channels and services available over the cable system. A revised
channel card shall be distributed via a newspaper of record within 30 days
after a change or addition in channels or services offered affecting two or
fewer channels. Whenever changes in channels or services have affected three or
more channels since the last channel card distributed via direct mail or bill
stuffers, then a new channel card shall be distributed to every subscriber
within 30 days via direct mail or bill stuffers.
113.30   CUSTOMER HANDBOOK.
A Grantee shall provide written customer policies or a handbook to all new
subscribers, and thereafter, upon request. Grantee’s written customer policies
or handbook shall, at a minimum, comply with all notice requirements in this
chapter and those promulgated by the FCC.
If Grantee’s operating rules are changed, subscribers shall be notified in a
timely manner.
113.31   SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY.
A Grantee shall abide by current Federal law and FCC regulations and Section
631 of the Cable Act regarding protection of subscriber privacy.
113.32   DISCRIMINATORY OR PREFERENTIAL PRACTICES.
A Grantee shall not, in making available the services or facilities of its
cable system, or in its rules or regulations, or in any other manner, make or
grant preferences or advantages to any subscriber or potential subscriber, or
to any user or potential user, and shall not subject any person to any
prejudice or disadvantage, based on their race, color, national origin or
gender. This provision shall not prohibit promotional campaigns to stimulate
subscriptions to the cable system or other legitimate uses thereof, nor the
establishment of a graduated scale of charges and classified rate schedules to
which any subscriber coming within such classification shall be entitled.
113.33   IDENTIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES.
Every field service and installation employee of the Grantee shall be clearly
identified by an identification card, badge, or uniform shirt. All employees of
Grantee shall display proper identification upon request of a subscriber,
provided that the City requires all utilities operating in the City to do the
same. Every field service and installation vehicle of the Grantee shall be
clearly marked by logo or decals.
113.34   SYSTEM DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Switching Device. A Grantee, upon request from any subscriber, shall
install at a reasonable charge a switching device to permit a subscriber to
continue to utilize the subscriber’s television antenna. The Grantee shall not
require the removal, or offer to remove, any subscriber’s antenna lead-in wire.
   2.   Parental Control Devices. Upon request, and within 120 days, Grantee
shall provide at a reasonable charge to subscribers, parental control devices
that allow any channel or channels to be locked out. Such devices shall block
both the video and the audio portion of such channels to the extent that both
are unintelligible. The lockout device described herein shall be made available
to all subscribers requesting it beginning on the first day that any cable
service is provided.
   3.   Public, Educational, and Governmental Channels. The Grantee shall
provide specially dedicated, non-commercial education and government channel
capacity, as specified in the franchise agreement, to be made available to the
public, groups, and individuals on a first-come, non-discriminatory basis. Such
channels shall be operated in accord with FCC rules and regulations. The
Grantee shall make no charge for use of such channel. The City or its designee
shall exercise sole control over the operation and shall establish rules
providing for access to the education and government channel.
   4.   Access Equipment and Facilities Fee. If authorized by the City, and
after 60 days’ notice from the City to a Grantee, a Grantee shall provide
ongoing support for public, educational, and governmental access equipment and
facilities in the amount of not to exceed $1.00 per subscriber per month for
the entire term of the franchise, payable in the same manner as the franchise
fee payment pursuant to Section
113.35 hereof. The City acknowledges that this amount shall not be considered
gross revenues subject to the payment of franchise fees pursuant to Section
113.35 hereof. Furthermore, payments of this ongoing support shall not be
deemed to be “franchise fees” within the meaning of Section 622 of the Cable
Act and such payment shall not be deemed to be “payments-in-kind” or any
involuntary payments chargeable against the compensation to be paid to the City
by a Grantee pursuant to Section
113.35 hereof. A Grantee shall be allowed to collect such fee as a pass through
to cable subscribers. This fee shall be revised on an annual basis in
accordance with the Consumer Price Index.
   5.   Leased Access Channels. Any Grantee shall make a portion of the
remaining unused channels available for lease as required by Section 612 of the
Cable Act.
   6.   Interference. The Grantee’s cable system shall be designed, engineered,
and maintained so as not to interfere with the television and radio reception
of residents of the City who are not subscribers on the cable system.
   7.   Additional Services. The Grantee is encouraged to make available such
additional video, audio, radio, digital, point-to-point service, and other
services as are requested by subscribers and programmers who are willing to pay
for such services, provided that such services are technologically and
economically feasible. If no applicable rate exists when such a service is
requested, the rate change procedures established in Section
113.36 shall be followed.
   8.   Technical Standards. The cable system shall be operated and maintained
in compliance with FCC Rules and Regulations Technical Standards K of Part 76
of Chapter 1 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as revised or
amended from time to time and on file at City Hall. FCC proof of performance
test results shall be delivered to the City annually or upon written request of
the City. Grantee shall file a copy of test results performed by the FCC or
other governmental regulatory agencies on the cable system with the City.
   9.   Filing of Maps. Upon request of the City, the Grantee shall file with
the City strand maps, showing the location of all property and facilities of
the Grantee within the City. All maps supplied by the Grantee shall be
considered confidential and proprietary.
113.35   FRANCHISE FEE.
   1.   Franchise Fee Payment. In consideration for the use of the streets and
public ways of the City for the construction, operation, maintenance, and
reconstruction of a cable system within the City, the Grantee shall pay to the
City an annual amount equal to three percent of the Grantee’s gross revenues as
defined in Section
113.01 of this chapter.
   2.   Quarterly Payments. Payment due to the City under the franchise
agreement shall be made quarterly at the City Administrator/Clerk’s office not
later than 45 days following March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31
of each year. Any fee not paid when due shall bear interest at a rate of one
and one-half percent per month from the date due. Each payment shall be
accompanied with a detailed report, the form of which is on file at City Hall,
showing the basis for the computation, and shall include (but not be limited
to) a specific breakdown of the following items: basic tier service charges,
expanded basic service charges, installation charges, reconnection fees,
premium channel revenues, revenue from other sources such as contracted or
subleased cable services, pay per view, miscellaneous revenue, and such other
relevant facts, as may be required by the City, necessary to determine the
accuracy of the franchise payment as specified in this chapter. The acceptance
of any payment shall not be construed as an accord that the amount paid is, in
fact, the correct amount; nor shall such acceptance of payment be construed as
a release of any claim the City may have for additional sums payable by the
Grantee. All amounts paid shall be subject to audit and recomputation by the
City. The Grantee shall permit the City, upon request with reasonable notice,
to review at Grantee’s local office its gross revenue records as may be
necessary to monitor compliance with Section
113.35 of this chapter.
   3.   Franchise Fee Audit. A Grantee will fully cooperate with a franchise
fee audit performed by a professional firm that is chosen by the City. The
costs associated with the audit will be paid for by the City, except that the
Grantee shall pay for the costs if the audit shows an underpayment of franchise
fees in excess of five percent or more for a reporting period.
   4.   Franchise Fee Increases. The City may request an increase in franchise
fees at any time during the term of the franchise, equal to the maximum
percentage allowed by Federal law. However, such request shall be made in
writing and the Grantee will not be liable for said increase until proper
notice, as defined by Federal law, is given to its subscriber. Prior to making
a final decision regarding an increase in franchise fees, the City shall
conduct a public hearing and shall grant an opportunity to the Grantee to
discuss the proposed increase in franchise fee.
   5.   Limitation on Franchise Fee Actions. The period of limitation for
recovery of any franchise fee payable hereunder shall be five years from the
date on which payment by a Grantee is due.
113.36   RATES AND CHARGES.
The City may regulate rates for the provision of basic cable and equipment as
permitted by the Cable Act. Any rate adjustments shall be filed with the City
Administrator/Clerk not later than 30 days prior to the implementation of the
adjustment.
113.37   FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
Any proceedings undertaken by the City that relate to the renewal of a
Grantee’s franchise shall be governed by and comply with the provisions of
Section 626 of the Cable Act, as amended, unless the procedures and substantive
protections set forth therein shall be deemed to be preempted and superseded by
the provisions of any subsequent provision of federal or State law.
113.38   CONDITIONS OF SALE.
If a renewal or extension of a Grantee’s franchise is denied or the franchise
is lawfully terminated, and the City either lawfully acquires ownership of the
cable system or by its actions lawfully effects a transfer of ownership of the
cable system to another person, any such acquisition or transfer shall be at a
price determined pursuant to the provisions set forth in Section 627 of the
Cable Act. In the case of a final determination of a lawful revocation of the
franchise, at the Grantee’s request, which shall be made in its sole
discretion, the Grantee shall be given a reasonable opportunity to effectuate a
transfer of its system to a qualified third party. During such a period of time
the City shall authorize the Grantee to continue to operate pursuant to the
terms of its prior franchise. However, in no event shall such authorization
exceed a period of time greater than six months from the effective date of such
revocation. If, at the end of that time, the Grantee is unsuccessful in
procuring a qualified transferee or assignee of its system which is reasonably
acceptable to the City, the Grantee and the City may avail themselves of any
rights they may have pursuant to federal or State law. The Grantee may continue
to operate its system during the six-month period and it shall not be deemed to
be a waiver or extinguishment of any right of either the City or the Grantee.
113.39   TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   1.   Transfer of Franchise. Any franchise granted under this chapter shall
be a privilege to be held for the benefit of the public. Any franchise so
granted cannot, in any event, be sold, transferred, leased, assigned, or
disposed of, including, but not limited to, by forced or voluntary sale, except
to an entity controlling, controlled by or under common control with the
Grantee, without the prior written consent of the City. Such consent shall be
given or denied no later than 120 days following any request and shall not be
unreasonably withheld. Prior consent shall not be required when transferring
the franchise between wholly owned subsidiaries of the same entity. Nor shall
such consent be required for a transfer in trust, by mortgage, by other
hypothecation, or assignment of any rights, title, or interest of the Grantee
in the cable system in order to secure indebtedness.
   2.   Ownership or Control. In the event that the Grantee sells or otherwise
transfers ownership in the cable system, such sale or transfer shall conform to
Section 617 of the Cable Act. For the purpose of determining whether it shall
consent to such change, transfer or acquisition of control, the City may in
accordance with Section 617 of the Cable Act, inquire into the qualifications
of the prospective controlling party, and the Grantee shall assist the City in
any such inquiry. In seeking the City’s consent to any change in ownership or
control, the transferee shall have the responsibility:
      A.   To show to the satisfaction of the City whether the proposed
purchaser, transferee, or assignee (the “proposed transferee), which in the
case of a corporation shall include all directors and all persons having a
legal or equitable interest of 50 percent or more of the voting stock:
         (1)   Has ever been convicted or held liable for acts involving moral
turpitude including, but not limited to, any violation of Federal, State or
local law or regulations, or is presently under an indictment, investigation or
complaint charging such acts;
         (2)   Has ever had a judgment in an action for fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation entered against it, her, him, or them by any court of
competent jurisdiction; or
         (3)   Has pending any legal claim, lawsuit or administrative
proceeding arising out of or involving a cable system.
The City retains the right to withhold approval of the transfer until the
transferee has provided the information required in this subsection.
      B.   To establish the financial solvency of the proposed transferee by
submitting all current financial data for the proposed transferee and such
other data to determine the legal, financial, and technical qualification of
the transferee.
      C.   To establish that the technical capability of the proposed
transferee is such as shall enable it to maintain and operate the cable system
for the remaining term of the franchise under the existing franchise terms.
   3.   Any financial institution having a pledge of the franchise or its
assets for the advancement of money for the construction and/or operation of
the franchise shall have the right to notify the City that the financial
institution, or its designee, as approved in writing by the City, shall take
control and operate the cable system in the event of a Grantee default in its
financial obligations. Further, said financial institution shall also submit a
plan for such operation that will ensure continued service and compliance with
all franchise requirements during the term the financial institution exercises
control over the system. The financial institution shall not exercise control
over the cable system for a period exceeding one year, unless extended by the
City at its discretion, but during said period of time it shall have the right
to petition the City to transfer the franchise to another Grantee. Except
insofar as the enforceability of this subsection may be limited by applicable
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting
creditors rights generally, and further subject to applicable federal, State,
or local law, if the City finds that such transfer, after considering the
legal, financial, character, technical and other public interest qualities of
the proposed transferee, is satisfactory, the City shall transfer and assign
the right and obligations of such franchise as in the public interest.
   4.   The consent or approval of the City to any transfer by the Grantee
shall not constitute a waiver or release of the rights of the City in and to
the streets, and any transfer shall, by its terms, be expressly subject to the
terms and conditions of any franchise.
   5.   In no event shall a transfer of ownership or control be approved
without the successor in interest becoming a signatory of the City.
   6.   The City may approve the transfer or deny the transfer pursuant to
Section 617 of the Cable Act.
   7.   When the City approves a transfer under this section, the new Grantee
shall indicate acceptance of the franchise as specified in Section 113.08,
including the filing of all necessary bonds, funds, proofs of insurance and
certifications.
   8.   The restrictions of this section shall be effective immediately upon
execution of a franchise agreement.
113.40   RIGHT OF INSPECTION OF CONSTRUCTION.
The City shall have the right to visually inspect all construction or
installation work performed subject to the provisions of this chapter and to
make such visual inspections as it shall find necessary to ensure compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other pertinent provision of law.
113.41   NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
The Grantee is encouraged to upgrade its facilities, equipment, and service so
that its cable system is as advanced as the current state of production
technology will allow. New developments shall be a topic of discussion at all
review sessions and shall be a factor to be considered in connection with
requests for rate adjustments, pursuant to FCC rules and regulations.
113.42   TESTING FOR COMPLIANCE.
The Grantee shall meet or exceed all FCC minimum performance and technical
standards. The City shall have the right to compel the Grantee to provide
results of Grantee’s testing of the cable system. In the event that the City
has evidence of non-compliance, the City may also perform technical tests of
the cable system during reasonable times and in a manner which does not
unreasonably interfere with the normal business operations of the Grantee or
the cable system in order to determine whether or not the Grantee is in
compliance with the terms hereof and applicable State or federal laws. Such
tests may be undertaken only after giving the Grantee reasonable notice
thereof, not to be less than ten business days, and providing a representative
of the Grantee has an opportunity to be present during such tests. In the event
that such testing demonstrates that the Grantee has substantially failed to
comply with a material requirement hereof, the reasonable costs of such tests
shall be borne by the Grantee. In the event that such testing demonstrates that
the Grantee has substantially complied with such material provisions hereof,
the cost of such testing shall be borne by the City. Except in emergency
circumstances, the City agrees that such testing shall be undertaken no more
than once a year, and that the results thereof shall be made available to the
Grantee. Any such special performance tests or measurements required by the
City shall be reported to the City within 14 business days after such test or
measurements are performed. Such report shall include the following
information: the nature of the complaint which precipitated the special tests;
what system component was tested, the equipment used, and procedures employed
in said testing; the results of such tests; and the method in which such
complaints were resolved. Any other information pertinent to the special test
shall be recorded.
113.43   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
The City or its certified public accountant upon reasonable notice to the
Grantee may review such of its books and records at the Grantee’s business
office, during normal business hours and on a non-disruptive basis, as is
reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with the terms hereof. Such records
shall include, but shall not be limited to, any public records required to be
kept by the Grantee pursuant to the rules and regulations of the FCC.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, the Grantee shall
not be required to disclose information which it reasonably deems to be
proprietary or confidential in nature under State and federal rules of
evidence. The City agrees to treat any information disclosed by the Grantee as
confidential and only to disclose it to employees, representatives, and agents
thereof that have a need to know, or in order to enforce the provisions hereof.
The Grantee shall not be required to provide subscriber information in
violation of Section 631 of the Cable Act.
113.44   COMMUNICATIONS WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES.
Copies of all petitions, applications, communications, reports, and all other
documents pertaining to the cable system and franchise submitted by the Grantee
or its parent companies to the FCC, Securities Exchange Commission, or any
other federal or State regulatory commission or agency shall be made available
to the City upon written request to the Grantee.
113.45   COMPLAINT RECORDS.
A written log or an equivalent stored in computer memory and capable of access
and reproduction, shall be maintained for all service interruptions or
complaints regarding system service problems. The Grantee shall maintain
detailed logs setting forth the date and substance of each service interruption
or complaint regarding the system service problems received by phone, mail or
other means during the preceding calendar month, and the date and nature of
action taken by the Grantee to respond to such complaints, or, if still
pending, the status thereof. Such logs shall be available to the City for
review for two years thereafter. A “complaint” as used herein shall be a
written complaint from a subscriber regarding signal quality or service, but
not regarding programming or rates which, in the case of oral complaints is not
resolved within the original telephone call or visit from the subscriber.
113.46   CITY ROLE IN COMPLAINTS.
Unresolved complaints concerning the system or its operation or maintenance may
be directed to the City Administrator/Clerk. The procedure to handle complaints
shall be as follows:
   1.   Within 30 days from the occurrence of the facts and circumstances
giving rise to a complaint or grievance, the complainant shall state the
complaint or grievance to the Grantee in writing. In the event such a complaint
or grievance is received by the City, the same shall be forwarded to Grantee in
writing.
   2.   Within five business days from the receipt by the Grantee of a
complaint from the City, the Grantee shall state to complainant its intentions
with respect to the complaint in writing.
   3.   Unresolved complaints concerning the system or its operation or
maintenance shall be directed to the City. The City shall promptly forward the
complaint to the Grantee or shall take the question up by correspondence with
the Grantee. Within such time as may be reasonably prescribed by the City, the
Grantee shall resolve the complaint or advise the City of its refusal or
inability to do so. When the Grantee resolves the complaint, it shall so notify
the City. If a complaint has not been resolved, the City may take any
appropriate action authorized by this chapter.
   4.   All subscribers shall be notified by the Grantee of the City’s role as
the regulatory authority on the monthly cable bills.
   5.   Nothing herein shall limit or alter the requirement or requirements
contained in this chapter for customer service standards on file in City Hall.
   6.   The City shall be notified of action taken to resolve grievances or
complaints, if the complaint was referred by the City under this section.
113.47   PERFORMANCE TESTING.
Grantee shall perform all cable system tests and maintenance procedures as
required by the FCC and this chapter.
113.48   REVIEW SESSIONS.
   1.   Purpose of Review Sessions. In recognition of the fact that a great
many technical, financial, marketing, and legal uncertainties are associated
with all aspects of cable communications at the present time, it is the intent
of the City to provide for a maximum feasible degree of flexibility in a
franchise throughout its term to achieve an advanced and modem cable system for
the City. The principal means for accomplishing this flexibility will be the
scheduled review sessions provided for in this chapter. It is intended that
such review sessions will serve as a means of cooperatively working out
solutions to problems that develop. Furthermore, such review sessions shall be
two-way processes. For example, if either party has perceived that some major
problem has developed, the session shall be devoted primarily to working out
solutions acceptable to both parties.
   2.   Topics to be Covered. The City and the Grantee shall hold scheduled
review sessions on the third, sixth, and ninth anniversary dates of the
effective date of the franchise agreement. All such review sessions shall be
open to the public and notice thereof shall be published once, not less than
four days or more than 20 days before each review session, as provided by law.
The published notice shall specify the topics to be discussed. The review
sessions may be canceled by mutual agreement of the City and Grantee. The
following topics may be discussed at every scheduled review session:
      A.   Recent and developing judicial and federal communications rulings
service rate structures.
      B.   Free and discounted services.
      C.   Application of new technology or new developments cable system
performance.
      D.   Cable system extension policy.
      E.   Services provided.
      F.   Programming offered.
      G.   Customer complaints review.
      H.   Community development and education interconnection.
      I.   New services.
      J.   Subscriber privacy abuse issues new developments.
      K.   Franchise fees.
Other topics, in addition to those listed, may be added by either party.
Members of the general public may also request additional topics.
113.49   REGULATORY RESPONSIBILITY.
The City, acting alone or acting jointly with other franchising authorities,
may exercise or delegate the following responsibilities:
   1.   Administering the provision of a cable system franchise,
   2.   Coordinating the operation of a local access channel and facilities,
   3.   Providing technical, programming, and operational support to public
agency users, such as government departments, schools, and health care
institutions,
   4.   Establishing jointly with a Grantee, or as otherwise specified in the
franchise agreement, procedures, and standards for use of channels dedicated to
public use and the sharing of public facilities, if provided for in any
franchise agreement,
   5.   Planning the expansion and growth of public benefit cable services,
   6.   Analyzing the possibility of integrating cable systems with other
local, regional, or national telecommunications networks,
   7.   Formulating and recommending long-range telecommunications policy.
113.50   ANNUAL REPORT.
No later than 90 days after the close of a Grantee’s fiscal year, and upon
written request, the Grantee shall submit a detailed written informative report
to the City, including the following information:
   1.   A summary of the previous year’s activities in development of the cable
system, including, but not limited to, services begun or dropped and newly
served geographic areas within the City limits.
   2.   A summary of complaints, identifying the number and specific nature of
complaints and their disposition.
   3.   A list of key management for the Garnavillo franchise along with their
addresses and job titles.
   4.   The annual report of the parent company, if a public corporation. Such
report shall be construed to mean the report of the previous year.
   5.   The total estimated annual value of the potential revenue from cable
services provided in the service area without charge or provided under a barter
arrangement, along with the total estimated number of persons who are provided
cable services in the service area without charge or under a barter agreement.
113.51   INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   1.   Indemnification. Any Grantee shall defend, indemnify, protect, and hold
harmless the City from and against any and all liability, losses, and damage to
property or bodily injury or death to any person, including payments made under
workmen’s compensation laws, which may arise out of or be caused by the
erection, construction, replacement, removal, maintenance, or operation of
Grantee’s cable system and caused by any act or failure to act on the part of
the Grantee, its agents, officers, servants, or employees. The City shall give
the Grantee written notice of its obligation to indemnify, within 30 days
following service of a petition or other similar pleading. If the City
determines that it is necessary for it to employ separate counsel, the costs
for such separate counsel shall be the responsibility of the City.
   2.   Insurance Coverage and Notifications. A Grantee shall maintain
insurance in such amounts and kinds of coverage as may be specified by the City
in the franchise agreement. Such coverage may be reasonably adjusted by the
City with ninety-day notification, provided that the City demonstrates the need
for increases in coverage. The Grantee shall maintain such insurance with
insurance underwriters authorized to do business in the State of Iowa. All
policies shall name the City, its employees, servants, agents, and officers as
additional insured parties. Each policy shall provide that it may not be
canceled nor the amount of coverage altered until 30 days after receipt by the
City Administrator/Clerk of a registered mail notice of such intent to cancel
or alter coverage. The Grantee shall provide a certificate of insurance
designating the City as an “additional insured.” The Grantee shall maintain and
provide to the City proof of public liability insurance for not less than the
amounts specified in the franchise agreement.
   3.   Insurance for Contractors and Subcontractors. Any Grantee shall provide
coverage for any contractor or subcontractor involved in the construction,
installation, maintenance, or operation of its cable system by either obtaining
the necessary endorsements to its insurance policies or requiring such
contractor or subcontractor to obtain appropriate insurance coverage consistent
with this section and appropriate to the extent of its involvement in the
construction, installation, maintenance, or operation of the Grantee’s cable
system.
113.52   FORECLOSURE.
A foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or part of the system shall be
treated as a change in control of the Grantee and the provision of Section
113.57(7) of this chapter shall apply.
113.53   RECEIVERSHIP.
The City shall have the right to cancel this franchise 120 days after the
appointment of a receiver or trustee, to take over and conduct the business of
the Grantee, whether in receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy, or other
action or proceedings, unless such receivership or trusteeship shall have been
vacated prior to the expiration of said 120 days, or less:
   1.   Within 120 days after being elected or appointed, such receiver or
trustee shall have fully complied with all provisions of this chapter and
remedied all defaults thereunder; and
   2.   Shall have executed an agreement, approved by the court having
jurisdiction, whereby such receiver or trustee agrees to be bound by this
chapter and the franchise granted to the Grantee.
113.54   CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.
   1.   Right to Continuous Service. It shall be the right of all subscribers
to continue receiving service insofar as their financial and other obligations
to the Grantee are honored. In the event that the Grantee elects to rebuild,
modify, or sell the cable system, or the City gives notice in accordance with
the franchise or this chapter of intent to terminate or fails to renew this
franchise, the Grantee shall act so as to ensure that all subscribers receive
continuous, uninterrupted service for six months. In the event of a change of
Grantee, or in the event a new operator acquires the cable system, the original
Grantee shall cooperate with the City, new Grantee or operator in maintaining
continuity of service to all subscribers. During such period, Grantee shall be
entitled to the revenue for any period during which it operates the cable
system, and shall be entitled to reasonable costs for its services when it no
longer operates the cable system.
   2.   Right of City to Operate Cable System. In the event Grantee fails to
operate the system for seven consecutive days without prior approval of the
City or without just cause, the City may, working in conjunction with any
financial institution having a pledge of the franchise or its assets for the
advancement of money for the construction and/or operation of the franchise,
operate the system or designate an operator until such time as Grantee restores
service under conditions acceptable to the City or a permanent operator is
selected. If the City is required to fulfill this obligation for the Grantee,
then during such period as the City fulfills such obligation, the City shall be
entitled to a reasonable management fee.
113.55   FRANCHISE PROCESSING COSTS.
   1.   Initial Franchises. For an initial franchise awarded, the costs to be
borne by the Grantee shall include (but shall not be limited to) all costs of
publication of notices prior to any public meeting, publication of relevant
ordinances and franchise agreements, incurred by the City.
   2.   Franchise Renewal. For a franchise renewal, the Grantee shall reimburse
the City the cost of publication of notices, publication of relevant
ordinances, and publication of franchise agreements.
   3.   Franchise Transfer. For a franchise transfer, the transferee shall
reimburse the City the cost of publication of notices, publication of relevant
ordinances and publication of franchise agreements. The City reserves the right
to withhold approval of such transfer until all costs have been reimbursed by
the transferee.
   4.   Other Costs. The publication costs provided for in this section shall
be in addition to any other inspection or permit fee or other fees due to City
under any other ordinance of general applicability.
113.56   TAXES.
Subject to federal and State law, the Grantee shall pay all real estate taxes,
special assessments, personal property taxes, license fees, permit fees, and
other generally applicable charges of a like nature which may be taxed,
charged, assessed, levied, or imposed upon the property of the Grantee and upon
any services rendered by the Grantee.
113.57   ENFORCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   1.   Notice of Violation. In the event that the City believes that the
Grantee has not complied with the terms of the franchise, it shall notify the
Grantee in writing of the exact nature of the alleged noncompliance.
   2.   Grantee’s Right to Cure or Respond. The Grantee shall have 30 days from
receipt of the notice described in Subsection 1: (a) to respond to the City,
contesting the assertion of noncompliance, or (b) to cure such default, or (c)
in the event that, by the nature of default, such default cannot be cured
within the 30-day period, initiate reasonable steps to remedy such default and
notify the City of the steps being taken and the projected date that they will
be completed.
   3.   Public Hearing. In the event that the Grantee fails to respond to the
notice described in subsection 1 pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Subsection 2, or in the event that the alleged default is not remedied within
30 days or the date projected pursuant to Subsection 2 above, the City shall
schedule a public hearing to investigate the default. The City shall notify the
Grantee in writing of the time and place of such meeting no less than five
business days in advance and provide the Grantee with an opportunity to be
heard.
   4.   Enforcement. Subject to applicable Federal and State law, in the event
the City, after such public hearing, determines that the Grantee is in default
of any provision of the franchise, the City may:
      A.   Seek specific performance of any provision, which reasonably lends
itself to such remedy, as an alternative to damages;
      B.   Commence an action at law for monetary damages or seek other
equitable relief; or
      C.   In the case of a substantial default of a material provision of the
franchise, declare the franchise agreement to be revoked in accordance with the
procedures outlined in this section.
The City shall give written notice to the Grantee of its intent to revoke the
franchise on the basis of noncompliance by the Grantee, including one or more
instances of substantial noncompliance with a material provision of the
franchise. The notice shall set forth the exact nature of the noncompliance.
The Grantee shall have 90 days from such notice to object in writing and to
state its reasons for such objection. In the event the City has not received a
response satisfactory from the Grantee, it may then seek termination of the
franchise at a public meeting. The City shall cause to be served upon the
Grantee, at least 10 days prior to such public meeting, a written notice
specifying the time and place of such meeting and stating its intent to request
such termination. At the designated meeting, the City shall give the Grantee an
opportunity to state its position on the matter, after which it shall determine
whether or not the franchise shall be revoked. The Grantee may appeal such
determination to an appropriate court, which shall have the power to review the
decision of the City de novo and to modify or reverse such decision as justice
may require. Such appeal to the appropriate court must be taken within 60 days
of the issuance of the determination of the City. The City may, at its sole
discretion, take any lawful action which it deems appropriate to enforce the
City’s rights under the franchise in lieu of revocation of the franchise.
   5.   Prompt Compliance. The Grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation
to comply with this chapter by reason of the City’s failure to enforce prompt
compliance.
   6.   Impossibility of Performance. A Grantee shall not be held in default or
noncompliance with the provisions of the franchise, or suffer any enforcement
or penalty relating thereto, where such noncompliance or alleged defaults are
caused by the following circumstances if reasonably beyond its control:
      A.   Necessary utility rearrangements, pole change-outs or obtainment of
easement rights.
      B.   Governmental or regulatory restrictions.
      C.   Lockouts.
      D.   War.
      E.   National emergencies.
      F.   Fire.
      G.   Acts of God.
      H.   Strikes.
   7.   Termination of Franchise.
      A.   Grounds for Revocation. The City reserves the right to revoke any
franchise and rescind all rights and privileges associated with the franchise
in the following circumstances:
         (1)   If the Grantee should default in the performance of any of its
material obligations under this chapter or the franchise and fails to cure the
default within 60 days after receipt of written notice of the default from the
City, or such longer time as specified by the City.
         (2)   If a petition is filed by or against the Grantee under the
Bankruptcy Act or any other insolvency or creditors’ rights law, State, or
federal, and the Grantee shall fail to have it dismissed.
         (3)   If a receiver, trustee, or liquidator of the Grantee is applied
for or appointed for all or part of the Grantee’s assets.
         (4)   If the Grantee makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors.
         (5)   If the Grantee violates any order or ruling of any State or
federal regulatory body having jurisdiction over the Grantee, unless the
Grantee or any party similarly affected is lawfully contesting the legality or
applicability of such order or ruling and has received a stay from a Court of
appropriate jurisdiction.
         (6)   If the Grantee evades any of the provisions of this chapter or
the franchise agreement.
         (7)   If the Grantee practices any intentional fraud or deceit upon
the City or cable subscribers.
         (8)   If the Grantee materially misrepresents facts in the application
for a franchise.
         (9)   If the Grantee ceases to provide services over the cable system
for seven consecutive days for any reason within the control of the Grantee.
      B.   Restoration of Property. In removing its plant, structures and
equipment, the Grantee shall refill at its own expense any excavation that
shall be made by it and shall leave all public ways and places in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to the Grantee’s removal of its equipment
and appliances, without affecting the electric or telephone cables, wires, or
attachments. The City shall inspect and approve the condition of the public
ways and public places and cables, wires, attachments, and poles after removal.
Liability insurance indemnity provided in Section
113.51 and the performance bond in Section
113.59 shall continue in full force and effect during the period of removal.
      C.   Reimbursement of Costs. Pursuant to Subsections l and 2 of this
section, in the event of a failure by the Grantee to complete any work as
required above or any work required by law or ordinance within the time
established and to the reasonable satisfaction of the City, after due notice
and opportunity to cure, the City may cause such work to be done and the
Grantee shall reimburse the City the costs thereof within 30 days after receipt
of an itemized list of such costs or the City may recover such costs as
provided in Section
113.58.
113.58   SECURITY FUND.
   1.   Within 10 days after execution of the franchise agreement, the Grantee
shall deposit with the City Administrator/Clerk, and maintain on deposit
through the term of the franchise, the sum of $10,000.00 as security for the
faithful performance by it of all the provisions of the franchise and
compliance with all orders, permits, and directions of any agency of the City
having jurisdiction over its acts or defaults under the franchise, and the
payment by the Grantee of any claims, liens, and taxes due the City which arise
by reason of the construction, operation, or maintenance of the system.
   2.   Within 10 days after notice that any amount has been withdrawn from the
security fund deposited pursuant to Subsection 1 of this section, the Grantee
shall pay to, or deposit with, the City Administrator/Clerk a sum of money
sufficient to restore such security fund to the original amount of $10,000.00.
   3.   If the Grantee fails to pay to the City any compensation within the
time fixed herein; or fails after 10 days’ notice to pay to the City any taxes
due and unpaid; or fails to repay to the City within such 10 days, any damages,
costs, or expenses which the City shall be compelled to pay by reason of any
act or default of the Grantee in connection with the franchise; or fails after
three days’ notice of such failure by the City to comply with any provision of
the franchise which the City reasonably determines can be remedied by an
expenditure of the security, the City Administrator/Clerk may immediately
withdraw the amount thereof, with interest and any penalties, from the security
fund. Upon such withdrawal, the City Clerk shall notify the company of the
amount and date thereof.
   4.   The security fund deposited pursuant to this section shall become the
property of the City in the event that the franchise is canceled by reason of
the default of the Grantee. The Grantee, however, shall be entitled to the
return of such security fund, or portion thereof, as remains on deposit at the
expiration of the term of the franchise, provided that there is then no
outstanding default on the part of the Grantee. Interest earned by the
investment of the security fund will accrue to the Grantee.
   5.   The rights reserved to the City with respect to the security fund are
in addition to all other rights of the City, whether reserved by the franchise
or authorized by law, and no action, proceeding, or exercise of a right with
respect to such security fund shall affect any other right the City may have.
113.59   FAITHFUL PERFORMANCE BOND.
Upon acceptance of a franchise, the Grantee shall submit and maintain
throughout the term of the franchise, a faithful performance bond in the amount
of $100,000.00. The bond shall insure compliance with all applicable laws,
regulations, ordinances, and provisions of this permit, shall provide for
recoverable loss or damages, compensation, indemnification, reasonable attorney
fees, cost of removal or abandonment of Grantee’s property, and shall cover
penalties of $100.00 per day for failure to meet the construction requirements
of any franchise agreement.
113.60   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
If the Grantee fails to comply with the requirements of this cable franchise
regulatory ordinance, and a cable franchise agreement, then the City may invoke
and secure compliance in accordance with Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances
and as authorized by Section 364.22 of the Code of Iowa.
113.61   ACTIONS OF PARTIES.
In any action by the City or the Grantee that is mandated or permitted under
the terms hereof, such party shall act in a reasonable, expeditious, and timely
manner. Furthermore, in any instance where approval or consent is required
under the terms hereof, such approval or consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
113.62   EQUAL PROTECTION.
In the event the City enters into a franchise, permit, license, authorization,
or other agreement of any kind with any other person or entity other than the
Grantee to enter into the City’s streets and public ways for the purpose of
constructing or operating a cable system or providing cable service to any part
of the service area, the material provisions thereof shall be reasonably
comparable to those contained herein, in order that one operator not be granted
an unfair competitive advantage over another, and to provide all parties equal
protection under the law.
113.63   NOTICES.
Unless expressly otherwise agreed between the parties, every notice or response
required by a franchise to be served upon the City or the Grantee shall be in
writing, and shall be deemed to have been duly given to the required party five
business days after having been posted in a properly sealed and correctly
addressed envelope when hand delivered or sent by certified or registered mail,
postage prepaid, or express mail service.
113.64   WAIVER OR EXEMPTION.
The City reserves the right to waive provisions of this chapter or exempt all
Grantees from meeting provisions of this chapter, if the City determines such
waiver or exemption is in the public interest.
CHAPTER 114
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
114.01 Definitions                   114.10 Franchise Nonexclusive
114.02 Term of Franchise             114.11 Police Powers
114.03 Compliance to Cable Franchise 114.12 Transfer of Franchise
Regulatory Ordinance
114.04 Franchise Fee                 114.13 Emergency Alert System
114.05 System Design                 114.14 Enforcement and Termination of
                                     Franchise
114.06 System Improvements           114.15 Faithful Performance Bond
114.07 Capital Equipment Grant       114.16 Review Sessions
114.08 Activated Channels            114.17 Equal Protection
114.09 Service Area                  114.18 Insurance Coverage
                                    114.19 Notices
 
114.01   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Basic cable” means the lowest priced tier of service that includes the
retransmission of local broadcast television signals and any public,
educational, and governmental access channels.
   2.   “Cable Act” means collectively the Cable Communications Policy Act of
1984 and the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992,
as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
   3.   “Cable operator” means as defined in the Cable Act.
   4.   “Cable service” means as defined in the Cable Act.
   5.   “Cable system” means as defined in the Cable Act.
   6.   “FCC” means Federal Communications Commission or successor governmental
entity thereto.
   7.   “Franchise” means the initial authorization or renewal thereof, issued
by the City, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit,
license, resolution, contract, certificate, or otherwise, which authorizes
construction and operation of the cable system.
   8.   “Grantee” means Mediacom Iowa LLC, or the lawful successor, transferee,
or assignee thereof.
   9.   “Gross revenues” means any and all revenue received by the Grantee from
the operation of the cable system to provide cable service to subscribers in
the service area, provided, however, that such phrase does not include any fees
or franchise fees or taxes which are imposed directly or indirectly on any
subscriber thereof by any governmental unit or agency, and which are collected
by the Grantee on behalf of such governmental unit or agency.
   10.   “Headend” means the land, electronic processing equipment, antennas,
tower, building and other appurtenances normally associated with and located at
the starting point of a cable system.
   11.   “House drop” or “drop” means a cable that connects each building or
home to the nearest feeder line of the cable network.
   12.   “Normal business hours” means those hours during which most similar
businesses in the community are open to serve subscribers. In all cases,
“normal business hours,” at a minimum, means those hours when the City Hall is
open to serve citizens.
   13.   “Normal operating conditions” means those service conditions which are
within the control of the Grantee. Those conditions which are not within the
control of the Grantee include (but are not limited to) natural disasters,
strikes, civil disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages and
severe or unusual weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily
within the control of the Grantee include (but are not limited to) special
promotions, pay-per-view events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal
demand periods and maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
   14.   “Outlet” means the point of connection of the cable or wire to a
television.
   15.   “Person” means an individual, partnership, association, joint stock
company, trust corporation or governmental entity.
   16.   “Private property” means all property, real, personal, or mixed, owned
by a private person, including property owned by a public utility not owned or
operated by the City.
   17.   “Property of the grantee” means all property, real, personal, or
mixed, owned or used by the Grantee however arising from or related to or
connected with the franchise.
   18.   “Public access channel” means channel capacity designated for non-
commercial public access use.
   19.   “Public property” means all property, real or personal or mixed, owned
or used by the City, including property owned or used by a public utility owned
or operated by the City.
   20.   “Public way” means the surface of, and the space above and below any
public street, highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard,
sidewalk, parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle or other public right-
of-way, including, but not limited to, public utility easements, dedicated
utility strips or rights-of-way dedicated for compatible uses and any temporary
or permanent fixtures or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by
the City in the service area which shall entitle the City and the Grantee to
the use thereof for the purpose of installing, operating, repairing and
maintaining the cable system. “Public way” also means any easement now or
hereafter held by the City within the service area for the purpose of public
travel, or for utility or public service use dedicated for compatible uses, and
includes other easements or rights-of-way as shall within their proper use and
meaning entitle the City and the Grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of
installing and operating the Grantee’s cable system over poles, wires, cables,
conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances,
attachments, and other property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to
the cable system.
   21.   “Service area” means the present municipal boundaries of the City.
   22.   “Service interruption” means the loss of video or audio on one or more
channels.
   23.   “Service tier” means a category of cable service or other services
provided by a cable operator and for which a separate rate is charged by the
cable operator.
114.02   TERM OF FRANCHISE.
Mediacom LLC, its successors, and assignees are hereby granted a renewal of
their nonexclusive right, franchise, and authority for a period of 10 years† 7
to erect, maintain, and operate a cable system in the City, and to sell and
supply individuals, firms and corporations within the corporate limits of the
City, cable service and other services in, along, among, upon, across, above,
over, under, or in any manner connected with public ways within the service
areas and for that purpose to erect, install, construct, repair, replace,
reconstruct, maintain or retain in, on, over, under, upon, across, or along any
public way and all extensions thereof and additions thereto, such poles, wires,
cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments, and other related property or equipment as may be
necessary or appurtenant to the cable system, subject to the conditions and
restrictions provided and subject to the Cable Franchise Regulatory Ordinance,
and all applicable laws of the State and United States of America.
 
Notes
7 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 15-2012, adopting a cable television franchise for
  the City, was passed and adopted on October 13, 2012.
114.03   COMPLIANCE TO CABLE FRANCHISE REGULATORY ORDINANCE.
The Grantee shall comply with all of the conditions and provisions of the Cable
Franchise Regulatory Ordinance (
Chapter 113 of this Code of Ordinances), unless an exemption or modification is
so specified in this chapter. In the event of a conflict or ambiguity between
this chapter and such regulatory ordinance, the terms of this chapter shall
control. No future transferees or assigns of the franchise shall be exempt from
the following sections of the Cable Franchise Regulatory Ordinance: Section
113.07 [Application for Franchise]; Section
113.34(4) [Access and Equipment and Facilities Fee]; and Section
113.58 [Security Fund].
114.04   FRANCHISE FEE.
   1.   Franchise Fee Payment. In consideration for the use of the streets and
public ways of the City for the construction, operation, maintenance, and
reconstruction of a cable system within the City, the Grantee shall pay to the
City an annual amount equal to three percent of the Grantee’s gross revenues as
defined in Section
114.01 of this chapter.
   2.   Quarterly Payments. Payment due to the City under this chapter shall be
made quarterly at the City Administrator/Clerk’s office not later than 45 days
following March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year. Any
fee not paid when due shall bear interest at a rate of one and one-half percent
per month from the date due. Each payment shall be accompanied with a detailed
report, on file in City Hall, showing the basis for the computation, and shall
include (but not be limited to) a specific breakdown of the following items:
basic tier service charges; expanded basic service charges; installation
charges; reconnection fees; premium channel revenues; shopping service revenue;
revenue from other sources such as contracted or subleased cable services; pay-
per-view; miscellaneous revenue, and such other relevant facts, as may be
required by the City, necessary to determine the accuracy of the franchise
payment as specified in this chapter. The acceptance of any payment shall not
be construed as an accord that the amount paid is, in fact, the correct amount;
nor shall such acceptance of payment be construed as a release of any claim the
City may have for additional sums payable by the Grantee. All amounts paid
shall be subject to audit and recomputation by the City. The Grantee shall
permit the City, upon request with reasonable notice, to review at Grantee’s
local office its gross revenue records as may be necessary to monitor
compliance with this section.
   3.   Franchise Fee Audit. The Grantee will fully cooperate with a franchise
fee audit performed by a professional firm that is chosen by the City. The
costs associated with the audit will be paid for by the City, except that the
Grantee shall pay for the costs if the audit shows an underpayment of franchise
fees in excess of five percent or more for a reporting period.
   4.   Franchise Fee Increases. The City may request an increase in franchise
fees at any time during the term of the franchise, equal to the maximum
percentage allowed by federal law. However, such request shall be made in
writing and the Grantee will not be liable for said increase until proper
notice, as defined by federal law, is given to its subscriber. Prior to making
a final decision regarding an increase in franchise fees, the City shall
conduct a public hearing and shall grant an opportunity to the Grantee to
discuss the proposed increase in franchise fee.
   5.   Limitation on Franchise Fee Actions. The period of limitation for
recovery of any franchise fee payable hereunder shall be five years from the
date on which payment by a Grantee is due.
   6.   Annual Review. The Grantee agrees to permit the City, upon request with
reasonable notice, to review at Grantee’s local office its gross revenue
records as may be necessary to monitor compliance with this section.
114.05   SYSTEM DESIGN.
   1.   The system will be designed so as to be two-way capable, and will be
constructed in a manner that will meet or exceed FCC specifications.
   2.   The Grantee shall provide for the installation and operation of an
emergency alert override system pursuant to FCC regulations on or before June
1, 2005.
   3.   The Grantee shall upon request, provide without charge, one outlet of
basic service and expanded basic service to the following public buildings in
the City:
      A.   City Hall.
      B.   Fire Station.
      C.   Law Enforcement Center.
      D.   Public Library.
      E.   All Public-School Buildings.
      F.   Civic and Commercial Center.
114.06   SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS.
Grantee shall provide written notice to the City verifying completion of any
system improvements. The cable system shall be constructed in accordance with
performance standards which meet or exceed FCC regulations. The cable system
shall include or provide:
   1.   Pay-per-view capabilities.
   2.   Conversion. Subscribers shall not be charged by Grantee for conversion
from the existing cable system to the new cable system. In the event that
special additional or customized equipment is requested by any subscriber or is
required to provide service to any subscriber, Grantee may charge the
subscriber for such equipment.
   3.   Notification. Grantee will notify subscribers and the public in general
of system improvements, using at least two of the following: bill stuffers,
direct mail, news releases, radio announcements, CSR training, and community
bulletin board announcements.
   4.   Drop Maintenance. Grantee shall maintain and replace subscriber drops
during its normal operation of the cable system that do not meet the standards
of the National Electric Safety Code. The cable system shall be designed to
allow each subscriber drop to provide service to three outlets.
   5.   Penalty. The City may assess against the Grantee a penalty of $100.00
per day for failure to meet the construction requirements of this chapter.
114.07   CAPITAL EQUIPMENT GRANT.
The Grantee shall provide the City with a capital grant for the purchase of
capital equipment and facilities in support of educational and governmental
access programming if so requested to do so by the City. By accepting the
capital grants from the Grantee, the City shall be required to support the
operational costs of educational and government access with funding equal to 60
percent of the franchise fees received from the Grantee. The City shall provide
documentation that this funding requirement has been met upon written request
of the Grantee.
114.08   ACTIVATED CHANNELS.
The Grantee shall provide a minimum of 64 activated channels on the cable
system on the effective date of the franchise.
114.09   SERVICE AREA.
Grantee shall offer cable television residential service to all areas of the
City which are in the corporate limits of the City on the effective date of the
franchise. The Grantee shall, at its expense, promptly extend its system to
have service available to all residents of:
   1.   Newly annexed areas to the City not then served by a cable system where
the average density is at least six dwelling units per quarter lineal mile or
of proposed trunk and feeder cable route.
   2.   New housing areas developed within the City limits, providing the new
areas developed meet the requirements of Subsection 1 of this section.
   3.   Any new single family dwelling unit, multiple dwelling unit or other
residential unit or commercial establishment within 200 feet of existing
distribution system in the City shall be extended cable simultaneously with
electric power and telephone utilities whenever reasonably possible.
114.10   FRANCHISE NONEXCLUSIVE.
Consistent with the requirements of this chapter, the franchise shall not be
construed as any limitation upon the right of the City to grant to other
persons rights, privileges, or authorities similar to the rights, privileges,
and authorities herein set forth, in the same or other streets, alleys, or
other public ways or public places. The City specifically reserves the right to
grant at any time during the term of the franchise or renewal thereof, if any,
such additional franchises for a cable system as it deems appropriate.
114.11   POLICE POWERS.
In accepting the franchise, Grantee acknowledges that its rights hereunder are
subject to the police powers of the City to adopt and enforce general
ordinances necessary for the safety and welfare of the public and it agrees to
comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the City
pursuant to such powers.
114.12   TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
The Grantee’s right, title, or interest in the franchise shall not be sold,
transferred, assigned, or otherwise encumbered, other than to an entity,
controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the Grantee, without
the prior consent of the City. Such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
No such consent shall be required, however, for a transfer in trust, by
mortgage, by other hypothecation, or by assignment of any rights, title, or
interest of the Grantee in the franchise in order to secure indebtedness.
Within 30 days of receiving the request for transfer, the City shall in
accordance with FCC rules and regulations, notify the Grantee in writing of the
information it requires to determine the legal, financial, and technical
qualifications of the transferee.
114.13   EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM.
The Grantee shall, in the case of any emergency or disaster, make its entire
cable system available without charge to the City or to any other governmental
or civil defense agency that the City shall designate. The cable system shall
be engineered to provide an audio and video alert system to allow authorized
officials to automatically override the audio and video signal on all channels
and transmit and report emergency information pursuant to FCC regulations. The
City shall hold the Grantee, its agents, employees, officers, and assigns
hereunder, harmless from any claims arising out of the emergency use of its
facilities by the City, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney’s
fees and costs, provided that the emergency alert system is in good repair and
is operational as required by FCC regulations and the franchise agreement. The
Grantee will install and maintain a backup generator at its headend that will
provide the needed power to generate the headend in the event of a power
outage.
114.14   ENFORCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   1.   Notice of Violation. In the event that the City believes that the
Grantee has not complied with the terms of the franchise, it shall notify the
Grantee in writing of the exact nature of the alleged noncompliance.
   2.   Grantee’s Right to Cure or Respond. The Grantee shall have 30 days from
receipt of the notice described in Subsection 1:
      A.   To respond to the City, contesting the assertion of noncompliance;
or
      B.   To cure such default; or
      C.   In the event that, by the nature of default, such default cannot be
cured within the 30-day period, initiate reasonable steps to remedy such
default and notify the City of the steps being taken and the projected date
that they will be completed.
   3.   Public Hearing. In the event that the Grantee fails to respond to the
notice described in Subsection 1 pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Subsection 2, or in the event that the alleged default is not remedied within
30 days or the date projected pursuant to Subsection 2 above, the City shall
schedule a public hearing to investigate the default. The City shall notify the
Grantee in writing of the time and place of such meeting no less than five
business days in advance and provide the Grantee with an opportunity to be
heard.
   4.   Enforcement. Subject to applicable federal and State law, in the event
the City, after such public hearing, determines that the Grantee is in default
of any provision of the franchise, the City may:
      A.   Seek specific performance of any provision, which reasonably lends
itself to such remedy, as an alternative to damages;
      B.   Commence an action at law for monetary damages or seek other
equitable relief; or
      C.   In the case of a substantial default of a material provision of the
franchise, declare the franchise agreement to be revoked in accordance with the
procedures outlined in this section.
The City shall give written notice to the Grantee of its intent to revoke the
franchise on the basis of noncompliance by the Grantee, including one or more
instances of substantial noncompliance with a material provision of the
franchise. The notice shall set forth the exact nature of the noncompliance.
The Grantee shall have 90 days from such notice to object in writing and to
state its reasons for such objection. In the event the City has not received a
response satisfactory from the Grantee, it may then seek termination of the
franchise at a public meeting. The City shall cause to be served upon the
Grantee, at least 10 days prior to such public meeting, a written notice
specifying the time and place of such meeting and stating its intent to request
such termination. At the designated meeting, the City shall give the Grantee an
opportunity to state its position on the matter, after which it shall determine
whether or not the franchise shall be revoked. The Grantee may appeal such
determination to an appropriate court, which shall have the power to review the
decision of the City de novo, and to modify or reverse such decision as justice
may require. Such appeal to the appropriate court must be taken within 60 days
of the issuance of the determination of the City. The City may, at its sole
discretion, take any lawful action which it deems appropriate to enforce the
City’s rights under the franchise in lieu of revocation of the franchise.
   5.   Termination of Franchise.
      A.   Grounds for Revocation. The City reserves the right to revoke any
franchise and rescind all rights and privileges associated with the franchise
in the following circumstances:
         (1)   If the Grantee should default in the performance of any of its
material obligations under the Cable Franchise Regulatory Ordinance or this
franchise and fails to cure the default within 60 days after receipt of written
notice of the default from the City, or such longer time as specified by the
City.
         (2)   If a petition is filed by or against the Grantee under the
Bankruptcy Act or any other insolvency or creditors’ rights law, State or
federal, and the Grantee shall fail to have it dismissed.
         (3)   If a receiver, trustee, or liquidator of the Grantee is applied
for or appointed for all or part of the Grantee’s assets.
         (4)   If the Grantee makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors.
         (5)   If the Grantee violates any order or ruling of any State or
federal regulatory body having jurisdiction over the Grantee, unless the
Grantee or any party similarly affected is lawfully contesting the legality or
applicability of such order or ruling and has received a stay from a Court of
appropriate jurisdiction.
         (6)   If the Grantee evades any of the provisions of the Cable
Franchise Regulatory Ordinance or this chapter.
         (7)   If the Grantee practices any intentional fraud or deceit upon
the City or cable subscribers.
         (8)   If the Grantee materially misrepresents facts in the application
for a franchise.
         (9)   If the Grantee ceases to provide services over the cable system
for seven consecutive days for any reason within the control of the Grantee.
      B.   Restoration of Property. In removing its plant, structures and
equipment, the Grantee shall refill at its own expense any excavation that
shall be made by it and shall leave all public ways and places in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to the Grantee’s removal of its equipment
and appliances, without affecting the electric or telephone cables, wires, or
attachments. The City shall inspect and approve the condition of the public
ways and public places and cables, wires, attachments, and poles after removal.
Liability insurance indemnity provided in the Regulatory Ordinance and the
performance bond in Section 114.15 shall continue in full force and effect
during the period of the removal.
      C.   Reimbursement of Costs. In the event of a failure by the Grantee to
complete any work as required above or any work required by law or ordinance
within the time established and to the reasonable satisfaction of the City,
after due notice and opportunity to cure, the City may cause such work to be
done and the Grantee shall reimburse the City the costs thereof within 30 days
after receipt of an itemized list of such costs or the City may recover such
costs.
114.15   FAITHFUL PERFORMANCE BOND.
Upon acceptance of a franchise, the Grantee shall submit and maintain
throughout the term of the franchise, a faithful performance bond in the amount
of $100,000.00. The bond shall insure compliance with all applicable laws,
regulations, ordinances, and provisions of this permit, shall provide for
recoverable loss or damages, compensation, indemnification, reasonable attorney
fees, cost of removal or abandonment of Grantee’s property, and shall cover
penalties of $100.00 per day for failure to meet the construction requirements
of any franchise agreement.
114.16   REVIEW SESSIONS.
   1.   Purpose of Review Sessions. In recognition of the fact that a great
many technical, financial, marketing, and legal uncertainties are associated
with all aspects of cable communications at the present time, it is the intent
of the City to provide for a maximum feasible degree of flexibility in a
franchise throughout its term to achieve an advanced and modem cable system for
the City. The principal means for accomplishing this flexibility will be the
scheduled review sessions provided for in this chapter. It is intended that
such review sessions will serve as a means of cooperatively working out
solutions to problems that develop. Furthermore, such review sessions shall be
two-way processes. For example, if either party has perceived that some major
problem has developed, the session shall be devoted primarily to working out
solutions acceptable to both parties.
   2.   Topics to be Covered. The City and the Grantee shall hold scheduled
review sessions on the third, sixth, and ninth anniversary dates of the
effective date of the franchise agreement. All such review sessions shall be
open to the public and notice thereof shall be published once, not less than
four days or more than 20 days before each review session, as provided by law.
The published notice shall specify the topics to be discussed. The review
sessions may be canceled by mutual agreement of the City and Grantee. The
following topics may be discussed at every scheduled review session:
      A.   Recent and developing judicial and Federal communications rulings
service rate structures.
      B.   Free and discounted services.
      C.   Application of new technology or new developments cable system
performance.
      D.   Cable system extension policy.
      E.   Services provided.
      F.   Programming offered.
      G.   Customer complaints review.
      H.   Community development and education interconnection.
      I.   New services.
      J.   Subscriber privacy abuse issues new developments.
      K.   Franchise fees.
Other topics, in addition to those listed, may be added by either party.
Members of the general public may also request additional topics.
114.17   EQUAL PROTECTION.
In the event the City enters into a franchise, permit, license, authorization,
or other agreement of any kind with any other person or entity other than the
Grantee to enter into the City’s streets and public ways for the purpose of
constructing or operating a cable system or providing cable service to any part
of the service area, the material provisions thereof shall be reasonably
comparable to those contained herein, in order that one operator not be granted
an unfair competitive advantage over another, and to provide all parties equal
protection under the law.
114.18   INSURANCE COVERAGE.
The Grantee shall provide a certificate of insurance designating the City as an
“additional insured.” The Grantee shall maintain and provide to the City proof
of public liability insurance for not less than the following amounts:
$2,000,000 - any one occurrence, bodily injury, or property damage
$2,000,000 - products/completed operations annual aggregate liability
$2,000,000 - general aggregate
114.19   NOTICES.
Unless expressly otherwise agreed between the parties, every notice or response
required by this chapter to be served upon the City or the Grantee shall be in
writing, and shall be deemed to have been duly given to the required party five
business days after having been posted in a properly sealed and correctly
addressed envelope when hand delivered or sent by certified or registered mail,
postage prepaid.
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.02 General Prohibition        120.06 Underage Persons
120.03 Investigation              120.07 Amusement Devices
120.04 Action by Council           
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a retail alcohol
license, wine permit, or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale, possess,
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations, and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa,
and a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a retail alcohol license, the City
Administrator/Clerk may forward it to the Police Chief, who shall then conduct
an investigation and submit a written report as to the truth of the facts
averred in the application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to
determine if they conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall
not approve an application for a license for any premises that does not conform
to the applicable law and ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a retail alcohol
license, shall endorse its approval or disapproval on the application, and
shall forward the application with the necessary fee and bond, if required, to
the Iowa Department of Revenue.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person holding a retail alcohol license and the person’s agents or employees
shall not do any of the following:
   1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
   2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and
6:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b])
   3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona
fide credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its
members, to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to
retail sales by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or
events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
   4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold, except as
follows:
      A.   Definitions. For use in this subsection the following terms are
defined as follows:
         (1)   “Bar” means an establishment where one may purchase alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises and in    which the serving of food
is only incidental to the consumption of those beverages.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[1])
         (2)   “Restaurant” means eating establishments, including private and
public school cafeterias, which offer food to the public, guests, or employees,
including the kitchen and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere, and including a bar area within a restaurant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 142D.2[17])
      B.   This subsection shall not apply if the employer has, on file,
written permission from the parent, guardian, or legal custodian of a person 16
or 17 years of age for the person to sell or serve alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises where sold. However, a person 16 or 17 years of age
shall not work in a bar as defined in Paragraph A.
         (1)   The employer shall keep a copy of the written permission on file
until the person is either 18 years of age or no longer engaged in the sale of
or serving alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
         (2)   If written permission is on file in accordance with Paragraph B,
a person 16 or 17 years of age may sell or serve alcoholic beverages in a
restaurant as defined above in Paragraph A during the hours in which the
restaurant serves food.
      C.   A person 16 or 17 years of age shall not sell or serve alcoholic
beverages under this subsection unless at least two employees 18 years of age
or older are physically present in the area where alcoholic beverages are sold
or served.
      D.   If a person employed under this subsection reports an incident of
workplace harassment to the employer or if the employer otherwise becomes aware
of such an incident, the employer shall report the incident to the employee’s
parent, guardian, or legal custodian and to the Iowa Civil Rights Commission,
which shall determine if any action is necessary or appropriate under Chapter
216 of the Code of Iowa.
      E.   An employer that employs a person under this subsection shall
require the person to attend training on prevention and response to sexual
harassment upon commencing employment.
      F.   Prior to a person commencing employment under this subsection, the
employer shall notify the employer’s dramshop liability insurer, in a form and
time period prescribed by the Director, that the employer is employing a person
under this subsection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
   5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the
mixing or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any
other beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
   6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
   7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
   8.   Keep on premises covered by a retail alcohol license any alcoholic
liquor in any container except the original package purchased from the
Alcoholic Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except
mixed drinks or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption.
However, mixed drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the premises and are not
for immediate consumption may be consumed on the licensed premises, subject to
rules adopted by the Alcoholic Beverages Division.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
   9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or
receptacle used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or
adulterate, by the addition of any substance, the contents or remaining
contents of an original package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly
possess any original package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
   10.   Allow any person other than the licensee or employees of the licensee
to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic liquor in any bottle or
other container that is designed for the transporting of such beverages, except
as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
   11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[21])
   12.   Permit or allow any person under 21 years of age to remain upon
licensed premises unless over 50 percent of the dollar volume of the business
establishment comes from the sale and serving of prepared foods. This provision
does not apply to holders of a Class “B” retail alcohol license or an
establishment employee when employed in compliance with State law.
120.06   UNDERAGE PERSONS.
   1.   For purposes of this section, “dispense” means the sale and/or other
providing of alcoholic beverages for consumption on-premises.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age for lawful purchase and/or
possession of alcoholic beverages to enter any premises where alcoholic
beverages are sold and dispensed between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and closing.
This prohibition shall not apply to:
      A.   An underage person who is an employee of the licensee or permittee.
      B.   An underage person who is accompanied on the premises at all times
by a parent, guardian or spouse who is of lawful age of possession and/or
purchase of alcoholic beverages.
      C.   An underage person on the premises during a period of time when the
licensee or permittee, in accordance with a written plan given to and approved
by the Police Chief, has suspended dispensing alcoholic beverages. During such
period of time, the licensee or permittee shall not permit any underage persons
to purchase or possess any alcoholic beverages on the premises. Police officers
shall be admitted to the premises at any time to monitor compliance with all
applicable laws.
      D.   An underage person, 18 years and older, on the premises during a
period of time when the licensee or permittee has not suspended dispensing
alcoholic beverages. During such period of time, the licensee or permittee
shall not permit any underage persons to purchase or possess any alcoholic
beverages on the premises. Police officers shall be admitted to the premises at
any time to monitor compliance with all applicable laws.
   3.   No licensee or permittee, or agent or employee thereof, shall allow any
person under the age for lawful possession and/or purchase of alcoholic
beverages to enter or remain upon the premises between the hours of 9:00 p.m.
and closing where the business conducted includes the sale and dispensing of
alcoholic beverages except as permitted in this section. The licensee or
permittee of any business that sells and dispenses alcoholic beverages for on-
premises consumption shall be required to post in a conspicuous place a note
stating:
NOTICE TO PERSONS UNDER THE LAWFUL AGE FOR POSSESSION AND/OR PURCHASE OF
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A MAXIMUM FINE OF $200.00 FOR BEING ON
THESE PREMISES BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 9:00 P.M. AND CLOSING, UNLESS YOU ARE
ACCOMPANIED BY A PARENT, GUARDIAN, OR SPOUSE WHO IS OF LEGAL AGE FOR THE
PURCHASE AND/OR POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
120.07   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa. (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a retail alcohol license, as
specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
   1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
   2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical
or mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
   4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation
of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under
the age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-Service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration  
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
   1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of
tobacco, or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and
irrespective of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored,
adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper
or cover made of paper or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be
construed to include cigars.
   3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored, or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
   4.   “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes, or offers for
sale for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
   5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement,
or storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of
the product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or
employee of the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access
location.
   6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars;
cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such
manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for
both chewing and smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
   7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
   2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms furnished by the State Department of Revenue
or on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee shall be filed with the City Administrator/Clerk. Renewal
applications shall be filed at least five days prior to the last regular
meeting of the Council in June. If a renewal application is not timely filed,
and a special Council meeting is called to act on the application, the costs of
such special meeting shall be paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:    FEE:
July, August, or September     $ 75.00
October, November, or December $ 56.25
January, February, or March    $ 37.50
April, May, or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Iowa Department of Revenue within 30 days of issuance of a permit.
121.06   REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May, or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
A person shall not sell, give, or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes to any
person under 21 years of age. The provision of this section includes
prohibiting a person under 21 years of age from purchasing tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, and cigarettes from a
vending machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the
provisions of this section, the Council shall, after written notice and
hearing, and in addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation,
assess the following:
   1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty
in the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under
this subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period
of 14 days.
   2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
   3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer
shall be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
   5.   For a fifth violation within a period of four years, the retailer’s
permit shall be revoked.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer
by mailing a copy of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the
application for a permit. The notice shall state the reason for the
contemplated action and the time and place at which the retailer may appear and
be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22, and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The City Administrator/Clerk shall report the revocation or
suspension of a retail permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the
Department of Commerce within 30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                  122.10 Time Restriction
122.02 Definitions              122.11 Revocation of License
122.03 License Required         122.12 Hearing
122.04 Application for License  122.13 Record and Determination
122.05 License Fees             122.14 Appeal
122.06 Bond Required            122.15 Effect of Revocation
122.07 License Issued           122.16 Rebates
122.08 Display of License       122.17 License Exemptions
122.09 License Not Transferable 122.18 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
 
122.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against fraud,
unfair competition, and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by licensing
and regulating peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
122.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
   2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions, or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
   3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases, or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out
of a vehicle that is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader, or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03   LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting, or in the business of a transient
merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein provided is in
violation of this chapter.
122.04   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
An application in writing shall be filed with the City Administrator/Clerk for
a license under this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s
name, permanent and local address, and business address if any. The application
shall also set forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s
address, the nature of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such
business, and the length of time sought to be covered by the license. An
application fee of $10.00 shall be paid at the time of filing such application
to cover the cost of investigating the facts stated therein.
122.05   LICENSE FEES.
In addition to the application fee identified in Section
122.04 of this chapter, the following license fees shall be paid to the City
Administrator/Clerk prior to the issuance of any license.
   1.   Solicitors. In addition to the application fee for each person actually
soliciting (principal or agent), a fee for the principal of $10.00 per year.
   2.   Peddlers or Transient Merchants.
      A.   For one day               $5.00
      B.   For one week            $25.00
      C.   For up to six months         $100.00
      D.   For one year or major part thereof   $175.00
122.06   BOND REQUIRED.
Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the City Administrator/Clerk evidence that the
applicant has filed a bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with
Chapter 9C of the Code of Iowa.
122.07   LICENSE ISSUED.
If the City Administrator/Clerk finds the application is completed in
conformance with the requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are
found to be correct, and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued
immediately.
122.08   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10   TIME RESTRICTION.
All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are in
force and effect only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
122.11   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the City
Administrator/Clerk may revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter for
the following reasons:
   1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in
the application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
   2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has
otherwise conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
   3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health, or Safety. The licensee has
conducted the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare,
safety, order, or morals.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall send the written notice to the licensee at
the licensee’s local address. The notice shall contain particulars of the
complaints against the licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes
allegedly violated, and the date, time, and place for hearing on the matter.
122.12   HEARING.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee
and any complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts
alleged in the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized
representative, fail to appear without good cause, the City Administrator/Clerk
may proceed to a determination of the complaint.
122.13   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and
conclusions of law, and shall revoke a license only when upon review of the
entire record the City Administrator/Clerk finds clear and convincing evidence
of substantial violation of this chapter or State law.
122.14   APPEAL.
If the City Administrator/Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the City
Administrator/Clerk shall make a part of the record the reasons for such
revocation or refusal. The licensee, or the applicant, shall have a right to a
hearing before the Council at its next regular meeting. The Council may
reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the City Administrator/Clerk by a
majority vote of the Council members present and the City Administrator/Clerk
shall carry out the decision of the Council.
122.15   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.16   REBATES.
Any licensee, except in the case of a revoked license, shall be entitled to a
rebate of part of the fee paid if the license is surrendered before it expires.
The amount of the rebate shall be determined by dividing the total license fee
by the number of days for which the license was issued and then multiplying the
result by the number of full days not expired. In all cases, at least $5.00 of
the original fee shall be retained by the City to cover administrative costs.
122.17   LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
   1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for, or selling
subscriptions to newspapers.
   2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America, and similar organizations.
   3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
   4.   Students. Students representing the Clayton Ridge Community School
District conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the
school.
   5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
   6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses
or institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or
institutional use.
   7.   Minor Businesses. An on-site transactional business traditionally
operated exclusively by a person under the age of 18, operated on an occasional
basis for no more than 89 calendar days in a calendar year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[15])
122.18   CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit
money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections
122.04 and
122.05. All such organizations are required to submit to the City
Administrator/Clerk in writing the name and purpose of the cause for which such
activities are sought, names and addresses of the officers and directors of the
organization, the period during which such activities are to be carried on, and
whether any commissions, fees, or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and
the amount thereof. If the City Administrator/Clerk finds that the organization
is a bona fide charity or nonprofit organization, the City Administrator/Clerk
shall issue, free of charge, a license containing the above information to the
applicant. In the event the City Administrator/Clerk denies the exemption, the
authorized representatives of the organization may appeal the decision to the
Council, as provided in Section
122.14 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 123
HOUSE MOVERS
 
123.01 House Mover Defined 123.07 Permit Issued
123.02 Permit Required     123.08 Public Safety
123.03 Application         123.09 Time Limit
123.04 Bond Required       123.10 Removal by City
123.05 Insurance Required  123.11 Protect Pavement
123.06 Permit Fee          123.12 Overhead Wires
 
123.01   HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or similar
structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the building or
structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks, dollies, or
any other specialized moving equipment.
123.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building,
or similar structure to be moved. Buildings of less than 100 square feet are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
123.03   APPLICATION.
Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the City
Administrator/Clerk on a form provided by the City. The application shall
include:
   1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and, if a
corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers.
   2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
   3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the Police Chief, street
superintendent, and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the
shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04   BOND REQUIRED.
The applicant shall post with the City Administrator/Clerk a penal bond in the
minimum sum of $10,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such
bonds in the State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any
damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of moving the building or structure.
123.05   INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration of
the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
   1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
123.06   PERMIT FEE.
A permit fee of $25.00 shall be payable at the time of filing the application
with the City Administrator/Clerk. A separate permit shall be required for each
house, building or similar structure to be moved.
123.07   PERMIT ISSUED.
Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate, and
payment of the required fee, the City Administrator/Clerk shall issue a permit.
123.08   PUBLIC SAFETY.
At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag persons
at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to the
sides, behind, and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind, and ahead of the
building or structure.
123.09   TIME LIMIT.
No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to remain
upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours without
having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.10   REMOVAL BY CITY.
In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section 123.09, the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and
assess the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
123.11   PROTECT PAVEMENT.
It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.12   OVERHEAD WIRES.
The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone, cable
television, and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and
replaced in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.09 Excavations
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.04 Playing In                 135.12 Dumping of Snow
135.05 Traveling On Barricaded    135.13 Driveway Culverts
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.14 Mailboxes
135.07 Washing Vehicles           135.15 Use of Skateboards
135.08 Burning Prohibited          
 
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy, or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard, or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface or injure any street or alley
in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass, or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal, or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled, or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer, or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale, or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street, or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate, or in any manner disturb any street, parking, or
alley except in accordance with the following:
   1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first
obtaining a permit. A written application for such permit shall be filed with
the City and shall contain the following:
      A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
      B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is
to be made;
      C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
      D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
   2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner
that will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutter on the street.
   3.   Barricades, Fencing, and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing, and
warning lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to
protect the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing, or warning lights shall be paid to
the City by the permit holder/property owner.
   4.   Bond Required. The applicant shall post with the City a penal bond in
the minimum sum of $1,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue
such bonds in the State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for
any damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of administration of this section. In lieu
of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $1,000.00 may be filed with the City.
   5.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
      A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
      B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
   6.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
   7.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City.
Backfill shall not be deemed completed, and no resurfacing of any improved
street or alley surface shall begin, until such backfill is inspected and
approved by the City. The permit holder/property owner shall provide the City
with notice at least 24 hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is
desired.
   8.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
for such work to the permit holder/property owner.
   9.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
   10.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
   11.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application and filing of bond and
insurance certificate, a permit shall be issued. A separate permit shall be
required for each excavation.
135.10   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 8
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
8 † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section 136.04 relating to property owner’s
  responsibility for maintenance of sidewalks.
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be thrown,
pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the Business District it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
135.14   MAILBOXES.
Mailboxes may be erected when they are allowed by the Post Office for mail
delivery. The mailboxes must meet the Post Office guidelines and shall not
create a nuisance in the right-of-way.
135.15   USE OF SKATEBOARDS.  
The use of skateboards, rollerblades, and roller skates is not allowed on any
street or highway in the City.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS
136.01 Purpose                               136.12 Awnings
136.02 Definitions                           136.13 Encroaching Steps
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice, and             136.14 Openings and Enclosures
Accumulations
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for 136.15 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                136.16 Defacing
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered         136.17 Debris on Sidewalks
136.07 Permit Required                       136.18 Merchandise Display
136.08 Sidewalk Standards                    136.19 Sales Stands
136.09 Barricades and Warning Lights         136.20 Skateboards, Roller Skates,
                                             and Rollerblades
136.10 Failure to Repair or Barricade        136.21 Golf Carts
136.11 Interference with Sidewalk             
Improvements
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair,
replacement, or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner
and to minimize the liability of the City.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
   2.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
   3.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete
is placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
   4.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
   5.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
   6.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
   7.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement, or removal of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling, or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
   8.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing
the surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, AND ACCUMULATIONS.
The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly
from sidewalks. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice, or accumulations
within a reasonable time, the City may do so and assess the costs against the
property owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove
snow, ice, and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b and e])
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition
any sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines or,
in the absence of a curb, any sidewalk between the property line and that
portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to maintain
the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
136.05   CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d and e])
136.06   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall remove, reconstruct, or install a sidewalk unless such person
has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction, or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work.
136.08   SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks repaired, replaced, or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
   1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the
construction and repair of sidewalks.
   2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
   3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-
drained soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact,
clean, coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage
is to be determined by the City.
   4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
   5.   Length, Width, and Depth. Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
      A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four
inches thick, and each section shall be no more than six feet in length.
      B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to
the curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
      C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
   6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge
(edge nearest the abutting private property) two feet from the property line,
unless the Council establishes a different distance due to special
circumstances.
   7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street,
which is the established grade.
   8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
   9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the
curb.
   10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a broom finish or wood
float finish.
   11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a
street, road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped
area shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street,
road, or highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built
or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed
at each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road.
Curb ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall
be constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.09   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.10   FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar, or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove, or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12   AWNINGS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any awning over any sidewalk
unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least eight feet above the
surface of the sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of duck, canvas or
other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets securely fastened
to the building, without any posts or other device that will obstruct the
sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of pedestrians.
136.13   ENCROACHING STEPS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.14   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
It is unlawful for a person to:
   1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
   2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating, or cover to any vault on
any sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the
public.
   3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings
on or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.15   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.16   DEFACING.
It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing on
any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.17   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal, or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.18   MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case shall
more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for such
purposes.
136.19   SALES STANDS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
136.20   SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, AND ROLLERBLADES.
Skateboards, roller skates, and rollerblades are not allowed on sidewalks in
the business district, as defined in Section 60.02(1) of this Code of
Ordinances. Whenever any person is riding a skateboard, roller skates, or
rollerblades on a sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing.
136.21   GOLF CARTS.
Golf carts are not allowed on any sidewalk in the City.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
 
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council. The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof, or any public grounds shall be vacated
unless the Council finds that:
   1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof, or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
   2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of
property abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 174.15[2] and 364.7[3])
EDITOR’S NOTE
 
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED          ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
16            June 1, 1910                   
17            June 1, 1910                   
33            April 7, 1927                  
46            August 5, 1949                 
47            August 5, 1949                 
48            June 3, 1950                   
56            August 7, 1953                 
57            October 2, 1953                
58            April 2, 1954                  
74            February 5, 1960               
83-1          July 5, 1983                   
88-1          May 2, 1988                    
1-91          March 4, 1991                  
2-96          May 6, 1996                    
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES
 
138.01 Purpose and Definition 138.03 Record Maintained
138.02 Established Grades
 
138.01   PURPOSE AND DEFINITION.
This chapter is designed to meet the requirements of the Code of Iowa for the
establishment of street grades. As used herein, “grade” means the longitudinal
reference lines, as established by ordinance of the Council, which designate
the elevation at which a street or sidewalk is to be built.
138.02   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
The grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance, are hereby confirmed, ratified, and established as
official grades.
138.03   RECORD MAINTAINED.
The City Administrator/Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades
and furnish information concerning such grades upon request.
EDITOR’S NOTE 
 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED      ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
9             May 6, 1908                
37            June 4, 1930               
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
   1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are
natural extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the
existing street.
   2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
   3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred
to the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the City
Administrator/Clerk shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County
Auditor and County Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section 139.04 of the
Code of Ordinances of Garnavillo, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the City Administrator/Clerk.
CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES
 
140.01 Exercise of Police Power 140.03 Right of Access Limited
140.02 Definition               140.04 Access Controls Imposed
 
140.01   EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City under
Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace, health,
and safety and for the promotion of the general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1)
140.02   DEFINITION.
The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street especially
designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of
abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled
right or easement of access, light, air, or view by reason of the fact that
their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for any other
reason.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2)
140.03   RIGHT OF ACCESS LIMITED.
No person has any right of ingress or egress to or from abutting lands onto or
across any controlled access facility, except at such designated points at
which access is permitted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
140.04   ACCESS CONTROLS IMPOSED.
There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities within the
City, described as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3)
   1.   Project No. FN-52-2(2)--21-22. On the Primary Road System extension
improvement, Project No. FN-52-2(2)--21-22, Primary Road No. 52, within the
City, described as follows:
   Beginning at Sta. 1082+52 at the south corporation line, thence along
Primary Road Extension U.S. 52 to Sta. 1131+75 at the north corporation line
regulating access to and from abutting properties along said highway all in
accordance with the plans for such improvement identified as Project No. No.
FN-52-2(2)--21-22, on file in the office of the City Administrator/Clerk.
CHAPTER 141
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
141.01 Legislative Power                141.18  Installation Requirements
141.02 Definitions                      141.19  Inspection
141.03 Administration                   141.20  Work Done Without a Permit
141.04 Registration, Bonding and Right- 141.21  Supplementary Notification
of-Way Occupancy
141.05 Right to Occupy Rights-of-Way;   141.22  Revocation of Permits
Payment of Fees
141.06 Franchise; Franchise Supremacy   141.23  Appeals
141.07 Registration Information         141.24  Mapping Data
141.08 Reporting Obligations            141.25  Location of Equipment
141.09 Permit Requirement               141.26  Relocation of Equipment
141.10 Permit Applications              141.27  Pre-Excavation Equipment
                                        Location
141.11 Issuance of Permit; Conditions   141.28  Damage to Other Equipment
141.12 Permit Fees                      141.29  Right-of-Way Vacation
141.13 Right-of-Way Restoration         141.30  Indemnification and Liability
141.14 Joint Applications               141.31  Future Uses
141.15 Supplementary Applications       141.32  Abandoned and Unusable
                                        Equipment
141.16 Other Obligations                141.33  Reservation of Regulatory and
                                        Police Powers
141.17 Denial of Permit                 141.34  Non-Exclusive Remedy
 
141.01   LEGISLATIVE POWER.
By enactment of this chapter, the Council hereby exercises its lawful police
power and common law authority, and all statutory authority which is available
to it, but not limited to, the powers conferred on it under Iowa Law, including
Sec. 364 of the Code of Iowa, and other provisions of law.
141.02   DEFINITIONS.
The following definitions apply in this chapter of this Code, (hereinafter,
“this chapter”). References hereafter to “sections” are, unless otherwise
specified, references to sections of this chapter. Defined terms remain defined
terms whether or not capitalized.
   1.   “Applicant” means any person requesting permission to excavate or
obstruct a right-of-way.
   2.   “Business district” means any portion of the City zoned for business or
commercial use.
   3.   “City cost” means the actual costs incurred by the City for managing
rights-of-way including, but not limited to, costs associated with registering
of applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way permit
applications; revoking right-of-way permits; inspecting job sites; creating and
updating mapping systems; determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration;
restoring work inadequately performed; maintaining, supporting, protecting or
moving user equipment during right-of-way work; budget analysis; record
keeping; legal assistance; systems analysis; and performing all of the other
tasks required by this chapter, including other costs the City may incur in
managing the provisions of this chapter except as expressly prohibited by law.
   4.   “City inspector” means any person authorized by the City to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this chapter.
   5.   “Degradation” means the accelerated depreciation of the right-of-way
caused by excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the
need to reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the
excavation did not occur.
   6.   “Emergency” means a condition that:
      A.   Poses a clear and immediate danger to life or health, or of a
significant loss of property; or
      B.   Requires immediate repair or replacement in order to restore service
to a customer.
   7.   “Equipment” means any tangible thing located in any right-of-way; but
shall not include plantings or gardens planted or maintained in the right-of-
way between a person’s property and the street curb.
   8.   “Excavate” means to dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb
or penetrate any part of a right-of-way, except horticultural practices or
penetrating the boulevard area to a depth of less than 12 inches.
   9.   “Excavation permit” means the permit which, pursuant to this chapter,
must be obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An excavation
permit allows the holder to excavate that part of a right-of-way described in
such permit.
   10.   “Excavation permit fee” means money paid to the City by an applicant
to cover the costs as provided in Section 141.12.
   11.   “In” means, when used in conjunction with “right-of-way,” over, above,
in, within, on, or under a right-of-way.
   12.   “Local representative” means the person or persons, or designee of
such person of persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to
make decisions for the registrant regarding all matters within the scope of
this chapter.
   13.   “Obstruct” means to place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as
to hinder free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   14.   “Obstruction permit” means the permit which, pursuant to this chapter,
must be obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the
holder to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of a right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way for the
duration specified therein.
   15.   “Obstruction permit fee” means money paid to the City by a registrant
to cover the costs as provided in Section 141.12.
   16.   “Performance and restoration bond” means a performance bond or letter
of credit posted to ensure the availability of sufficient funds to assure that
all obligations pursuant to this chapter, including, but not limited to, right-
of-way excavation and obstruction work, is timely and properly completed.
   17.   “Permittee” means any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct
a right-of-way has been granted by the City under this chapter.
   18.   “Person” means any natural or corporate person, business association,
or other business entity including, but not limited to, a partnership, a sole
proprietorship, a political subdivision, a public or private agency of any
kind, a utility, a successor, or assign of any of the foregoing, or any other
legal entity which has or seeks to have equipment located in any right-of-way.
   19.   “Probation” means the status of a person that has not complied with
the conditions of this chapter.
   20.   “Probation period” means one year from the date that a person has been
notified in writing that they have been put on probation.
   21.   “Registrant” means any person who:
      A.   Has or seeks to have its equipment located in any right-of-way, or
      B.   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or any equipment located in the right-of-way and, accordingly, is
required to register with the City.
   22.   “Restore” or “restoration” means the process by which an excavated or
obstructed right-of-way and surrounding area, including, but not limited to,
pavement and foundation, is returned to the same condition that existed before
the commencement of excavation.
   23.   “Restoration fee” means an amount of money paid to the City by a
permittee to cover the cost of restoration.
   24.   “Right-of-way” means the area on, below or above any real property in
which the City has an interest including, but not limited to, any street, road,
highway, alley, sidewalk, parkway, park, skyway, or any other place, area, or
real property owned by or under the control of the City, including other
dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and utility easements.
   25.   “Right-of-way permit” means either the excavation permit or the
obstruction permit, or both, depending on the context, required by this
chapter.
   26.   “Service” or “utility service” means, but is not limited to,
      A.   Those services provided by a public or private utility; and
      B.   A telecommunications right-of-way user, pipeline, community antenna
television, cable communications systems, fire and alarm communications, water,
electricity, light, heat, cooling energy, or power services.
   27.   “Supplementary application” means an application made to excavate or
obstruct more of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that
had already been issued.
   28.   “Telecommunications right-of-way user” means a person owning or
controlling a facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control the
same, that is used or intended to be used for transporting telecommunication or
other voice or data information.
   29.   “Unusable equipment” means equipment located in the right-of-way which
has remained unused for one year and for which the registrant is unable to
provide proof that it has a plan to begin using it within the next 12 months or
a potential purchaser or user of the equipment.
141.03   ADMINISTRATION.
The City may designate a principal City official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances
related thereto. The City may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
141.04   REGISTRATION, BONDING AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   1.   Each person who occupies, uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or any equipment located in the right-of-way, including by lease,
sublease or assignment, or who has, or seeks to have, equipment located in any
right-of-way must register with the City. Registration will consist of
providing application information to and as required by the City, paying a
registration fee, and posting a performance and restoration bond.
   2.   The performance and restoration bond required in this section, and in
Sections
141.10(2);
141.13(2)(B), and Section
141.32.1(B)(3) shall be in an amount determined in the City’s sole discretion,
sufficient to serve as security for the full and complete performance of the
obligations under this chapter, including any costs, expenses, damages, or loss
the City pays or incurs because of any failure to comply with this chapter or
any other applicable laws, regulations or standards. During periods of
construction, repair or restoration of rights-of-way or equipment in rights-of-
way, the performance and restoration bond shall be in an amount sufficient to
cover 100 percent of the estimated cost of such work, as documented by the
person proposing to perform such work, or in such lesser amount as may be
determined by the City, taking into account the amount of equipment in the
right-of-way, the location and method of installation of the equipment, the
conflict or interference of such equipment with the equipment of other persons,
and the purposes and policies of this chapter. Sixty days after completion of
the work, the performance and restoration bond may be reduced in the sole
determination of the City.
   3.   No person may construct, install, repair, remove, relocate, or perform
any other service on, or use any equipment or any part thereof located in any
right-of-way without first being registered with the City.
   4.   Nothing herein shall be construed to restrict or regulate the planting
or maintaining of plantings or gardens in the area of right-of-way between
property owners and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining plantings
or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and shall not
be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements for
planting or maintaining such plantings or gardens under this chapter.
141.05   RIGHT TO OCCUPY RIGHTS-OF-WAY; PAYMENT OF FEES.
   1.   Any person required to register under Section
141.04, who occupies, uses, or places their equipment in the right-of-way, is
hereby granted a right to do so if and only so long as it:
      A.   Timely pays all fees provided herein; and
      B.   Complies with all other requirements of law.
   2.   The grant of right in Section
141.05(1) is expressly conditioned on, and is subject to, the police powers of
the City, continuing compliance with all provisions of law now or hereinafter
enacted, including this chapter as it may be from time to time amended and,
further, is specifically subject to the obligation to obtain any and all
additional required authorizations, whether from the City or other body or
authority.
141.06   FRANCHISE; FRANCHISE SUPREMACY.
The City may, in addition to the requirements of this chapter, require any
person who has or seeks to have equipment located in any right-of-way to obtain
a franchise to the full extent permitted by law, now or hereinafter enacted.
The terms of any franchise which are in direct conflict with any provision of
this chapter, whether granted prior or subsequent to enactment to this chapter,
shall control and supersede the conflicting terms of this chapter provided;
however, that requirements relating to insurance, bonds, penalties, security
funds, letters of credit, indemnification, or any other security in favor of
the City may be cumulative in the sole determination of the City or unless
otherwise negotiated by the City and the franchise grantee. All other terms of
this chapter shall be fully applicable to all persons.
141.07   REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   1.   The information provided to the City at the time of registration shall
include, but not be limited to:
      A.   The registrant’s name, address, and e-mail address, if applicable,
and telephone and facsimile numbers.
      B.   The name, address, and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      C.   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (1)   Shall be on a form approved by the City,
         (2)   Shall verify that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State or is
covered by self-insurance which the City determines to provide the City with
protections equivalent to that of a State licensed insurance company, legally
independent from registrant,
         (3)   Shall verify that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            a.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and
            b.   Placement and use of equipment in the right-of-way by the
registrant, its officers, agents, employees and permittees, including, but not
limited to, protection against liability arising from completed operations,
damage of underground equipment and collapse of property,
         (4)   Shall name the City as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages,
         (5)   Shall require that the City be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy, and
         (6)   Shall indicate comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage in amounts
established by the City in amounts sufficient to protect the City and carry out
the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      D.   Such other information as the City may require.
   2.   The registrant shall keep all of the information listed above current
at all times by providing the City information of changes within 15 days
following the date on which the registrant has knowledge of any change.
141.08   REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   1.   Operations. Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by
December 1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan with
the City. Registrants must use commercially reasonable efforts to anticipate
and plan for all upcoming projects and include all such projects in a
construction or major maintenance plan. Such plan shall be submitted using a
format designated by the City and shall contain the information determined by
the City to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way.
      A.   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (1)   The specific locations and the estimated beginning and ending
dates of all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this
section, a “next-year project”); and
         (2)   The tentative locations and beginning and ending dates for all
projects contemplated for the five years following the next calendar year (in
this section, a “five-year project).
      B.   The term “project” in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
         (1)   By January 1 of each year the City will have available for
inspection in its offices a composite list of all projects of which it has been
informed in the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for keeping
themselves apprised of the current status of this list.
         (2)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any
project in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the City and all
other registrants of all such changes in said list. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another
registrant that was listed by the other registrant.
   2.   Additional Next-Year Projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City
may, for good cause shown, allow a registrant to submit additional next-year
projects. Good cause includes, but is not limited to, the criteria set forth in
Section 140.17(3) concerning the discretionary issuance of permits.
141.09   PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
Except as otherwise provided in this Code of Ordinances, no person may obstruct
or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the appropriate
right-of-way permit from the City to do so.
   1.   Excavation Permit. An excavation permit is required to allow the holder
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and/or to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by
placing equipment described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
   2.   Obstruction Permit. An obstruction permit is required to allow the
holder to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-
way by placing equipment, vehicles, or other obstructions described therein on
the right-of-way for the duration specified therein.
No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way beyond the date or dates
specified in the permit unless such person (a) makes a supplementary
application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration of the
initial permit, and (b) a new permit or permit extension is granted. Permits
issued under this chapter shall be conspicuously displayed at all times at the
indicated work site and shall be available for inspection by the City inspector
and authorized City personnel.
141.10   PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   1.   Application for a Permit is made to the City. Right-of-way permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with, the requirements of the following provisions:
      A.   Registration with the City pursuant to this chapter.
      B.   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all existing and proposed equipment.
      C.   Payment of all money due to the City for:
         (1)   Permit fees and costs due;
         (2)   Prior obstructions and excavations;
         (3)   Any loss, damage, or expense suffered by the City as a result of
applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way or any
emergency actions taken by the City; and
         (4)   Franchise fees, if applicable.
   2.   When an excavation permit is requested for purposes of installing
additional equipment, and a performance and restoration bond which is in
existence is insufficient with respect to the additional equipment in the sole
determination of the City, the permit applicant may be required by the City to
post an additional performance and restoration bond in accordance with Section
140.04(1).
141.11   ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   1.   If the City determines that the applicant has satisfied the
requirements of this chapter, the City may issue a permit.
   2.   The City may impose any reasonable conditions upon the issuance of a
permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder in order to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare, to ensure the structural integrity of the
right-of-way, to protect the property and safety of other users of the right-
of-way, to minimize the disruption and inconvenience to the traveling public,
and to otherwise efficiently manage use of the right-of-way.
141.12   PERMIT FEES.
   1.   Excavation Permit Fee. The excavation permit fee shall be established
by the City in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      A.   The City cost;
      B.   The degradation of the right-of-way that will result from the
excavation;
      C.   Restoration, if done or caused to be done by the City.
   2.   Obstruction Permit Fee. The obstruction permit fee shall be established
by the City and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the City cost.
   3.   Disruption Fees. The City may establish and impose a disruption fee as
a penalty for unreasonable delays in excavations, obstructions, or restoration.
   4.   Payment of Permit Fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of all fees required prior to the issuance of
such a permit unless the applicant shall agree (in a manner, amount and
substance acceptable to the City) to pay such fees within 30 days of bill
therefore. All permit fees shall be doubled during a probationary period.
Permit fees that were paid for a permit which was revoked for a breach are not
refundable. Any refunded permit fees shall be less all City cost up to and
including the date of refund.
   5.   Use of Permit Fees. All obstruction and excavation permit fees shall be
used solely for City management, construction, maintenance, and restorations
costs of the right-of-way.
141.13   RIGHT-OF-WAY RESTORATION.
   1.   The work to be done under the permit, and the restoration of the right-
of-way as required herein, must be completed within the dates specified in the
permit, increased by as many days as work count not be done because of
circumstances constituting force majeure or when work was prohibited as
unseasonal or unreasonable under Section 140.16(2) all in the sole
determination of the City. In addition to repairing its own work, the permittee
must restore the general area of the work, and the surrounding areas, including
the paving and its foundations, to the same condition that existed before the
commencement of the work and must inspect the area of the work and use
reasonable care to maintain the same condition thereafter.
   2.   In its application for an excavation permit, the permittee may choose
to have the City restore the right-of-way. In any event, the City may determine
to perform the right-of-way restoration and shall require the permittee to a
restoration fee to provide for reimbursement of all costs associated with such
restoration. In the event permittee elects not to perform restoration, City
may, in lieu of performing the restoration itself, impose a fee to fully
compensate for the resultant degradation as well as for any and all additional
City costs associated therewith. Such fee for degradation shall compensate the
City for costs associated with a decrease in the useful life of the right-of-
way caused by excavation and shall include a restoration fee component. Payment
of such fee does not relieve a permittee from any restoration obligation.
      A.   City Restoration. If the City restores a right-of-way, the permitee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, during the 36 months
following such restoration, the right-of-way settles due to permittee’s
excavation or restoration, the permittee shall pay the City, within 30 days of
billing, the cost of repairing said right-of-way.
      B.   Permittee Restoration. If the permittee chooses at the time of
application for an excavation permit to restore the right-of-way itself, such
permittee shall post an additional performance and restoration bond in an
amount determined by the City to be sufficient to cover the cost of restoring
the right-of-way to its pre-excavation condition. If, 36 months after the
completion of the restoration of the right-of-way, the City determines that the
right-of-way has been properly restored, the surety on the performance and
restoration bond posted pursuant to Section 140.13(2)(B) shall be released.
   3.   The permittee shall perform the work according to the standards and
with materials specified by the City. The City shall have the authority to
prescribe the manner and extent of the restoration, and may do so in written
procedures or general application or on a case-by-case basis. The City, in
exercising this authority, shall be guided, but not limited, by the following
standards and considerations:
      A.   The number, size, depth, and duration of the excavations,
disruptions or damage to the right-of-way;
      B.   The traffic volume carried by the right-of-way; the character of the
neighborhood surrounding the right-of-way;
      C.   The pre-excavation condition of the right-of-way; the remaining
life-expectancy of the right-of-way affected by the excavation;
      D.   Whether the relative cost of the method of restoration to the
permittee is in reasonable balance with the prevention of an accelerated
depreciation of the right-of-way that would otherwise result from the
excavation, disturbance, or damage to the right-of-way; and
      E.   The likelihood that the particular method of restoration would be
effective in slowing the depreciation of the right-of-way that would otherwise
take place.
   4.   By choosing to restore the right-of-way itself, the permittee
guarantees its work and shall maintain it for 36 months following its
completion. During this 36-month period it shall, upon notification from the
City, correct all restoration work to the extent necessary, using the method
required by the City. Said work shall be completed within five calendar days of
the receipt of the notice from the City, not including days during which work
cannot be done because of circumstances constituting force majeure or days when
work is prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under Section 141.16(2), all
in the sole determination of the City.
   5.   If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way in the manner and to
the condition required by the City, or fails to satisfactorily and timely
complete all repairs required by the City, the City at its option may perform
or cause to be performed such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the City, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the City may exercise its rights under the
performance and restoration bond.
141.14   JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   1.   Registrants may jointly make applications for permits to excavate or
obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   2.   Registrants who join in during a scheduled obstruction or excavation
performed by the City, whether or not it as a joint application by two or more
registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the obstruction
and degradation portions of the permit fee.
   3.   Registrants who apply for permits for the same obstruction or
excavation, which is not performed by the City, may share in the payment of the
obstruction or excavation permit fee. Registrants must agree among themselves
as to the portion each will pay and indicate the same on their applications.
141.15   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   1.   A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area of the right-of-way
specified in the permit. No permittee may perform any work outside the area
specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any permittee who
determines that an area greater than that specified in the permit must be
obstructed or excavated must, before working in that greater area:
      A.   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
necessitated thereby, and
      B.   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   2.   A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates specified in the
permit. No permittee may begin their work before the permit start date or,
except as provided herein, continue working after the end date. If a permittee
does not finish the work by the permit end date, they must make application for
a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit or an
extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the previous
permit. This supplementary application must be done before the permit end date.
141.16   OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   1.   Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not relieve permittee of their
duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses, franchises, or other
authorizations and to pay all fees required by the City, any other City,
County, State, or federal rules, laws, or regulations. A permittee shall comply
with all requirements of local, State, and federal laws. A permittee shall
perform all work in conformance with all applicable codes and established rules
and regulations, and is responsible for all work done in the right-of-way
pursuant to its permit, regardless of who performs the work.
   2.   Except in the case of an emergency, and with the approval of the City,
no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be performed when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   3.   A permittee shall not so obstruct a right-of-way that the natural free
and clear passage of water through the gutters or other waterways shall be
interfered with.
141.17   DENIAL OF PERMIT.
The City may, deny any application for a permit as provided in this section.
   1.   Mandatory Denial. Except in the case of an emergency, no right-of-way
permit will be granted.
      A.   To any person required by Section
141.04 to be registered who has not done so;
      B.   To any person required by Section
141.08 to file an annual report but has failed to do so;
      C.   For any next-year project not listed in the construction and major
maintenance plan required under Section 141.08 unless the person used
commercially reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project;
      D.   For any project which required the excavation of any portion of a
right-of-way which was constructed or reconstructed within the preceding three
years;
      E.   To any person who has failed within the past three years to comply,
or is presently not in full compliance, with the requirements of this chapter;
      F.   To any person as to who there exists grounds for the revocation of a
permit under Section
141.22; and
      G.   If, in the sole discretion of the City, the issuance of a permit for
the particular date and/or time would cause a conflict or interfere with an
exhibition, celebration, festival, or any other event. The City, in exercising
this discretion, shall be guided by the safety and convenience of ordinary
travel of the public over the right-of-way, and by considerations relating to
the public health, safety, and welfare.
   2.   Permissive Denial. The City may deny a permit in order to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare, to prevent interference with the safety and
convenience of ordinary travel over the right-of-way, or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its users. The City may consider one or more of
the following factors:
      A.   The extent to which right-of-way space where the permit is sought is
available;
      B.   The competing demands for the particular space to the right-of-way;
      C.   The availability of other locations in the right-of-way or in other
rights-of-way for the equipment of the permit applicant;
      D.   The applicability of ordinance or other regulations of the right-of-
way that affect location of equipment in the right-of-way;
      E.   The degree of compliance of the applicant with the terms and
conditions of its franchise, if any, this chapter, and other applicable
ordinances and regulations;
      F.   The degree of disruption to surrounding communities and businesses
that will result from the use of that part of the right-of-way;
      G.   The condition and age of the right-of-way, and whether and when it
is scheduled for total or partial reconstruction; and
      H.   The balancing of the costs of disruption to the public and damage to
the right-of-way, against the benefits to that part of the public served by the
expansion into additional parts of the right-of-way.
   3.   Discretionary Issuance. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
141.17(1)(C-D) above, the City may issue a permit in any case where the permit
is necessary:
      A.   To prevent substantial economic hardship to a customer of the permit
applicant, or
      B.   To allow such customer to materially improve its utility service, or
      C.   To allow a new economic development project; and where the permit
applicant did not have knowledge of the hardship, the plans for improvement of
service, or the development project when said applicant was required to submit
its list of next-year projects.
   4.   Permits for Additional Next-Year Projects. Notwithstanding the
provisions of Section
141.17(1)(C) above, the City may issue a permit to a registrant who was allowed
under Section
141.08(2) to submit an additional next-year project, or in the event the
registrant demonstrates that it used commercially reasonable efforts to
anticipate and plan for the project, such Permit to be subject to all other
conditions and requirements of law, including such conditions as may be imposed
under Section
141.11(2).
141.18   INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
The City may enforce local standards of installation prior to adoption of
mandatory, preemptive statewide standards pursuant to its inherent and
historical police power authority.
141.19   INSPECTION.
   1.   When the work under any permit hereunder is completed, the permittee
shall notify the City.
   2.   The permittee shall make the work-site available to the City inspector
and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable times
during the execution and upon completion of the work.
   3.   At the time of inspection, the City Inspector may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public. The City inspector may issue an order to the
registrant for any work which does not conform to the applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within 10 days after
issuance of the order, the registrant shall present proof to the City that the
violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within the
required time, the City may revoke the permit pursuant to Section
141.22.
141.20   WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   1.   Emergency Situations. Each registrant shall immediately notify the City
or the City’s designee of any event regarding its equipment which it considers
to be an emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are
necessary in order to respond to the emergency. Within three business days
after the occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply for the
necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of
the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter
for the actions it took in response to the emergency.
   2.   In the event that the City becomes aware of an emergency regarding a
registrant’s equipment, the City may attempt to contact the local
representative of each registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the
emergency. In any event, the City may take whatever action it deems necessary
in order to respond to the emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the
registrant whose equipment occasioned the emergency.
   3.   Non-Emergency Situations. Except in the case of an emergency, any
person who, without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs, or
excavates a right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, pay double the
normal fee for said permit, pay double all other fees required by City
ordinance, including, but not limited to, criminal fines and penalties, deposit
with the City the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-way and
comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
141.21   SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or sooner
than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the City of the
accurate information as soon as this information is known.
141.22   REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   1.   Registrants hold permits issued pursuant to this Code of Ordinances as
a privilege and not as a right. The City reserves its right, to revoke any
right-of-way permit, without fee refund, in the event of a substantial breach
of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, or
any condition of the permit. A substantial breach by permittee shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
      A.   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      B.   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the City or its citizens;
      C.   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      D.   The failure to maintain the required bonds and/or insurance;
      E.   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; or
      F.   The failure to correct a condition indicated on an order issued
pursuant to Section 140.19(3).
   2.   If the City determines that the permittee has committed a substantial
breach of a term or condition of any statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, or
any condition of the permit, the City shall make a written demand upon the
permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall state that continued
violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. Further, a substantial
breach, as stated above, will allow the City, at the City’s discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit.
   3.   Within 24 hours of receiving notification of the breach, permittee
shall contact the City with a plan, acceptable to the City inspector, for its
correction. The permittee’s failure to so contact the City inspector, the
permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan, or the permittee’s failure to
reasonably implement the approved plan shall be cause for immediate revocation
of the permit. Further, permittee’s failure to so contact the City inspector,
or the permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan, or the permittee’s
failure to reasonably implement the approved plan shall automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year.
   4.   From time to time, the City may establish a list of conditions of the
permit which, if breached, will automatically place the permittee on probation
for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working out of the allotted
time period or working on right-of-way outside of the permit.
   5.   If a permittee, while on probation, commits a breach as outlined above,
permittee’s permit will automatically be revoked and permittee will not be
allowed further permits for one full year, except for emergency repairs.
   6.   If a permit is revoked, the permittee shall also reimburse the City for
the City’s reasonable costs, including restoration costs and the costs of
collection and reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in connection with such
revocation.
141.23   APPEALS.
   1.   A person that:
      A.   Has been denied registration;
      B.   Has been denied a right-of-way permit;
      C.   Has had its right-of-way permit revoked; or
      D.   Believes that the fees imposed on the user by the City do not
conform to the requirements of law.
may have the denial, revocation, or fee imposition reviewed, upon written
request, by the Council. The Council shall act on a timely written request at
its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision by the Council affirming the
denial, revocation, or fee imposition must be in writing and supported by
written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
   2.   Upon affirmation by the Council of the denial, revocation, or fee
imposition, the telecommunications right-of-way user shall have the right to
have the matter resolved by binding arbitration. Binding arbitration must be
before an arbitrator agreed to by both the City and the person. If the parties
cannot agree on an arbitrator, the matter must be resolved by a three-person
arbitration panel made up of one arbitrator selected by the City, one
arbitrator selected by the person, and one arbitrator selected by the other two
arbitrators. The costs and fees of a single arbitrator shall be borne equally
by the City and the person. In the event there is a third arbitrator, each
party shall bear the expense of its own arbitrator and shall jointly and
equally bear with the other party the expense of the third arbitrator and of
the arbitration.
   3.   Each party to the arbitration shall pay its own costs, disbursements,
and attorney fees.
141.24   MAPPING DATA.
   1.   Except as provided in Subsection 2 of this section, each registrant
shall provide to the City information indicating the horizontal and vertical
location, relative to the boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment
which it owns or over which is has control and which is located in any right-
of-way (“Mapping Data”). Mapping data shall be provided with the specificity
and in the format requested by the City for inclusion in the mapping system
used by the City. Within six months of the acquisitions, installation, or
construction of additional equipment or any relocation, abandonment, or disuse
of existing equipment, each registrant shall supplement the mapping data
required herein. Each registrant shall, within six months after the date of
passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter, submit a plan to the City
specifying in detail the steps it will take to comply with the requirements of
this section. Said plan shall provide for the submission of all mapping data
not later than five years after the date of passage of the ordinance codified
in this chapter.† 9   Notwithstanding the foregoing, mapping data shall be
submitted by all registrants for all equipment which is being installed or
constructed after the date of passage of this ordinance at the time any permits
are sought under this chapter. After six months after the passage of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, a new registrant, or a registrant which has
not submitted a plan as required above, shall submit complete and accurate
mapping data for all its equipment at the time any permits are sought under
this chapter.
   2.   Information regarding equipment of telecommunications right-of-way
users constructed or located prior to January 1, 1997, need only be supplied in
the form maintained, however, all telecommunications right-of-way users must
submit some type of documentary evidence regarding the location of equipment
within the rights-of-way of the City.
   3.   At the request of any registrant, any information requested by the
City, which qualifies as a “trade secret”
 
Notes
9 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 16-2012, adopting right-of-way management
  provisions for the City, was passed and adopted on October 13, 2012.
141.25   LOCATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   1.   Undergrounding. Unless otherwise permitted by an existing franchise or
unless existing above-ground equipment is repaired or replaced, or unless
infeasible such as in the provision of electric service at certain voltages,
new construction, the installation of new equipment, and the replacement of old
equipment shall be done underground or contained within buildings or other
structures in conformity with applicable codes unless otherwise agreed to by
the City in writing, and such agreement is reflected in applicable permits.
   2.   Corridors. The City may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
equipment that is or, pursuant to current technology, the City expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. Excavation, obstruction, or other
permits issued by the City involving the installation or replacement of
equipment may designate the proper corridor for the equipment at issue and such
equipment must be located accordingly.
   3.   Any registrant whose equipment is located prior to the enactment of
this chapter in the right-of-way in a position at variance with the corridors
established by the City shall, no later than at the time of the next
reconstruction or excavation of the area where its equipment is located, move
that equipment to its assigned position within the right-of-way, unless this
requirement is waived by the City for good cause shown, upon consideration of
such factors as the remaining economic life of the facilities, public safety,
customer service needs and hardship to the registrant.
   4.   Nuisance. One year after the passage of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, any equipment found in a right-of-way that has not been registered
shall be deemed to be a nuisance. The City may exercise any remedies or rights
it has at law or in equity, including, but not limited to, abating the
nuisance, or taking possession of the equipment and restoring the right-of-way
to a useable condition.
   5.   Limitation of Space. To protect health, safety, and welfare, the City
shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement or new or additional
equipment within the right-of-way if there is insufficient space to accommodate
all of the requests of registrants or persons to occupy and use the right-of-
way. In making such decisions, the City shall strive to the extent possible to
accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-of-way, but shall be
guided primarily by considerations of the public interest, the public’s needs
for the particular service, the condition of the right-of-way, the time of year
with respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing equipment in
the right-of-way, and future City plans for public improvements and development
projects which have been determined to be in the public interest.
141.26   RELOCATION OF EQUIPMENT.
The person must promptly, and at its own expense, with due regard to seasonal
working conditions, permanently remove and relocate its equipment and
facilities in the right-of-way whenever the City requests such removal and
relocation, and shall restore the right-of-way to the same condition it was in
prior to said removal or relocation. The City may make such requests in order
to prevent interference by the Company’s equipment or facilities with (a) a
present or future City use of the right-of-way, (b) a public improvement
undertaken by the City, (c) and economic development project in which the City
has an interest or investment, (d) when the public health, safety and welfare
requires is, (e) or when necessary to prevent interference with the safety and
convenience of ordinary travel over the right-of-way. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a person shall not be required to remove or relocate its equipment
from any right-of-way which has been vacated in favor of a non-governmental
entity unless and until the reasonable costs thereof are first paid by such
non-governmental entity to the person therefor.
141.27   PRE-EXCAVATION EQUIPMENT LOCATION.
Before the start date of any right-of-way excavation, each registrant who has
equipment located in the area to be excavated shall mark the horizontal and
approximate vertical placement of all said equipment. Any registrant whose
equipment is less than 20 inches below a concrete or asphalt surface shall
notify and work closely with the excavation contractor in an effort to
establish the exact location of its equipment and the best procedure for
excavation.
141.28   DAMAGE TO OTHER EQUIPMENT.
When the City performs work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move a registrant’s equipment in order to protect it, the
City shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible.
The costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be
paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be
responsible for the cost of repairing any equipment in the right-of-way which
it or its equipment damages. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost
of repairing any damage to the equipment of another registrant caused during
the City’s response to an emergency occasioned by the registrant’s equipment.
141.29   RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   1.   If the City vacates a right-of-way which contains the equipment of a
registrant, and if the vacation does not required the relocation of registrant
or permittee equipment, the City shall reserve, to and for itself and all
registrants having equipment in the vacated right-of-way, the right to install,
maintain and operate any equipment in the vacated right-of-way and to enter
upon such right-of-way at any time for the purpose of reconstructing,
inspecting, maintaining, or repairing the same.
   2.   If the vacation requires the relocation of registrant or permittee
equipment and: (a) if the vacation proceedings are initiated by the registrant
or permittee, the registrant or permittee must pay the relocation costs; or (b)
if the vacation proceedings are initiated by the City, the registrant or
permittee must pay the relocation costs unless otherwise agreed to by the City
and the registrant or permittee; or (c) if the vacation proceedings are
initiated by a person or persons other than the registrant or permittee, such
other person or persons must pay the relocation costs.
141.30   INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   1.   By reason of the acceptance of a registration or the grant of a right-
of-way permit, the City does not assume any liability: (a) for injuries to
persons, damage to property, or loss of service claims by parties other than
the registrant or the City; or (b) for claims or penalties of any sort
resulting from the installation, presence, maintenance, or operation of
equipment by registrants or activities of registrants.
   2.   By registering with the City, a registrant agrees, or by accepting a
permit under this chapter, a permittee is required to defend, indemnify, and
hold the City whole and harmless from all costs, liabilities, and claims for
damages of any kind arising out of the construction, presence, installation,
maintenance, repair, or operation of its equipment, or out of any activity
undertaken in or near a right-of-way, whether or not any act or omission
complained of is authorized, allowed, or prohibited by a right-of-way permit.
It further agrees that it will not bring, nor cause to be brought, any action,
suit or other proceeding claiming damages, or seeking any other relief against
the City for any claim nor for any award arising out of the presence,
installation, maintenance, or operation of its equipment, or any activity
undertaken in or near a right-of-way, whether or not the act or omission
complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by a right-of-way permit.
The foregoing does not indemnify the City for its own negligence except for
claims arising out of or alleging the City’s negligence where such negligence
arises out of or is primarily related to the presence, installation,
construction, operation, maintenance, or repair of said equipment by the
registrant or on the registrant’s behalf, including, but not limited to, the
issuance of permits and inspection of plans or work. This section is not, as to
third parties, a waiver of any defense or immunity otherwise available to the
registrant or to the City; and the registrant, in defending any action on
behalf of the City, shall be entitled to assert in any action every defense or
immunity that the City could assert on its own behalf.
141.31   FUTURE USES.
In placing any equipment, or allowing it to be placed, in the right-of-way the
City is not liable for any damages caused thereby to any registrant’s equipment
which is already in place. No registrant is entitled to rely on the provisions
of this chapter, and no special duty is created as to any registrant. This
chapter is enacted to protect the general health, welfare, and safety of the
public at large.
141.32   ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE EQUIPMENT.
   1.   A registrant who has determined to discontinue its operations with
respect to any equipment in any right-of-way, or segment or portion thereof, in
the City must either:
      A.   Provide information satisfactory to the City that the registrant’s
obligations for its equipment in the right-of-way under this chapter have been
lawfully assumed by another registrant; or
      B.   Submit to the City a proposal and instruments for transferring
ownership of its equipment to the City. If a registrant proceeds under this
clause, the City may, at its option:
         (1)   Purchase the equipment, or
         (2)   Require the registrant, at its own expense, to remove it, or
         (3)   Require the registrant to post an additional bond or an
increased bond amount sufficient to reimburse the City for reasonably
anticipated costs to be incurred in removing the equipment.
   2.   Equipment of a registrant which fails to comply with the preceding
paragraph and which, for two years, remains unused shall be deemed to be
abandoned. Abandoned equipment is deemed to be a nuisance. The City may
exercise any remedies of rights it has at law or in equity, including, but not
limited to, (a) abating the nuisance, (b) taking possession of the equipment
and restoring it to useable condition, (c) requiring removal of the equipment
by the registrant or by the registrant’s surety; or (d) exercising its rights
pursuant to the performance and restoration bond.
   3.   Any registrant who has unusable equipment in any right-of-way shall
remove it from that right-of-way during the next scheduled excavation, unless
this requirement is waived by the City.
141.33   RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
The City by granting a right-of-way permit, or by registering a person under
this chapter, does not surrender or to any extent lose, waive, impair, or
lessen the lawful powers and rights, which it now has or may be hereafter
vested in the City under the constitution and statutes of the State (or the
charter of the City) to regulate the use of the right-of-way by the permittee;
and the permittee by its acceptance of a right-of-way permit or of registration
under those ordinances agrees that all lawful powers and rights, regulatory
power, or police power, or otherwise as are or the same may be from time to
time vested in or reserved to the City, shall be in full force and effect and
subject to the exercise thereof by the City at any time. A permittee or
registrant is deemed to acknowledge that its rights are subject to the
regulatory and police powers of the City to adopt and enforce general
ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public and is deemed to
agree to comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the
City pursuant to such powers. Any conflict between the provisions of a
registration or of a right-of-way permit and any other present or future lawful
exercise of the City’s regulatory or police powers shall be resolved in favor
of the latter.
141.34   NON-EXCLUSIVE REMEDY.
The remedies provided in this chapter and other chapters in this Code of
Ordinances, and the Code of Iowa, are not exclusive or in lieu of other rights
and remedies that the City may have at law or in equity. The City is hereby
authorized to seek legal and equitable relief for actual or threatened injury
to the public rights-of-way, including damages to the rights-of-way, whether or
not caused by a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or other
provisions of the Code of Iowa.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
 
145.01 Enforcement Officer          145.05 Conduct of Hearing
145.02 General Definition of Unsafe 145.06 Posting of Signs
145.03 Unsafe Building              145.07 Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                    Infraction
145.04 Notice to Owner              145.08 Costs
 
145.01   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
The Mayor is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
145.02   GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose of this
chapter, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 and 364.12[3a])
145.03   UNSAFE BUILDING.
“Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of the
following criteria:
   1.   Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, because of: (i) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; (ii)
faulty construction; (iii) the removal, movement, or instability of any portion
of the ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building; (iv) the
deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or (v) any other cause,
is likely to partially or completely collapse.
   2.   Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure,
or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is
being used.
   3.   Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or
intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is
likely to cause sickness or disease.
   4.   Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
   5.   Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04   NOTICE TO OWNER.
The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building or
structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such is
found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement officer. If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to
be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the enforcement officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
   1.   Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail
to the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of Iowa, if
the owner is found within the City limits. If the owner is not found within the
City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered mail or
certified mail. The designated period within which said owner or person in
charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement officer shall
begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
   2.   Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request
for hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.05   CONDUCT OF HEARING.
If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the
date, time and place of hearing.
   2.   Owner’s Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
   3.   Determination. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and
may issue such order as it deems appropriate.† 10
 
Notes
   † EDITOR’S NOTE: Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
   Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
10 this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use of this procedure. We
   recommend you review the situation with your attorney before initiating
   procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.
145.06   POSTING OF SIGNS.
The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read:
“DO NOT ENTER.
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY.
CITY OF GARNAVILLO, IOWA.”
Such notice shall remain posted until the required demolition, removal or
repairs are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without written
permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter the building
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the
building.
145.07   RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.08   COSTS.
Costs incurred under Section 145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury.
Such costs shall be charged to the owner of the premises involved and levied as
a special assessment against the land on which the building or structure is
located, and shall be certified to the County Treasurer for collection in the
manner provided for other taxes. In addition, the City may take any other
action deemed appropriate to recover costs incurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements
 
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
   2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
   1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to
the principal building from the City Administrator/Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   2.   Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than two and one-half inches in height
and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
   3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the City Administrator/Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
TREES
 
151.01 Definition            151.04 Trimming Trees To Be Supervised
151.02 Planting Restrictions 151.05 Disease Control
151.03 Duty To Trim Trees    151.06 Inspection and Removal
 
151.01   DEFINITION.
For use in this chapter, “parking” means that part of the street, avenue, or
highway in the City not covered by sidewalk and lying between the lot line and
the curb line or, on unpaved streets, that part of the street, avenue, or
highway lying between the lot line and that portion of the street usually
traveled by vehicular traffic.
151.02   PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
No tree shall be planted in any parking or street.
151.03   DUTY TO TRIM TREES.
The owner or agent of the abutting property shall keep the trees on, or
overhanging the street, trimmed so that all branches will be at least 15 feet
above the surface of the street and eight feet above the sidewalks. If the
abutting property owner fails to trim the trees, the City may serve notice on
the abutting property owner requiring that such action be taken within five
days. If such action is not taken within that time, the City may perform the
required action and assess the costs against the abutting property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c and e])
151.04   TRIMMING TREES TO BE SUPERVISED.
Except as allowed in Section 151.03, it is unlawful for any person to trim or
cut any tree in a street or public place unless the work is done under the
supervision of the City.
151.05   DISEASE CONTROL.
Any dead, diseased, or damaged tree or shrub that may harbor serious insect or
disease pests or disease injurious to other trees is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
151.06   INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
The Council shall inspect or cause to be inspected any trees or shrubs in the
City reported or suspected to be dead, diseased or damaged, and such trees and
shrubs shall be subject to the following:
   1.   City Property. If it is determined that any such condition exists on
any public property, including the strip between the curb and the lot line of
private property, the Council may cause such condition to be corrected by
treatment or removal. The Council may also order the removal of any trees on
the streets of the City which interfere with the making of improvements or with
travel thereon.
   2.   Private Property. If it is determined with reasonable certainty that
any such condition exists on private property and that danger to other trees or
to adjoining property or passing motorists or pedestrians is imminent, the
Council shall notify by certified mail the owner, occupant or person in charge
of such property to correct such condition by treatment or removal within 14
days of said notification. If such owner, occupant, or person in charge of said
property fails to comply within 14 days of receipt of notice, the Council may
cause the condition to be corrected and the cost assessed against the property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3b and h])
CHAPTER 159
HOUSING CODE
159.01 Definitions                      159.14 Sanitary Facilities
159.02 Registration and Fees            159.15 Sanitary Conditions
159.03 Plans of Inspection              159.16 Water Supply
159.04 Enforcement                      159.17 Lead Based Paint
159.05 Penalties and Corrective Actions 159.18 Thermal Environment
159.06 Right to Appeal                  159.19 Structure and Materials
159.07 Scope                            159.20 Space and Security
159.08 Access and Exits                 159.21 Site and Neighborhood
159.09 Illumination and Electricity     159.22 Rooming Houses
159.10 Fire Warning Systems             159.23 Congregate Housing
159.11 Plumbing Equipment               159.24 Independent Group Residence
159.12 Food Preparation and Refuse      159.25 Certification of Inspected
Disposal                                Housing
159.13 Interior Air Quality             159.26 Conflict with Ordinances
 
159.01   DEFINITIONS.
for purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Approved” means, as to materials and types of construction, and refers
to approval of the Housing Official as the result of investigation and tests
conducted by the Housing Official, or by reason of accepted principles or tests
by national authorities, technical or scientific organizations.
   2.   “Building, existing” means a building erected prior to the adoption of
this Housing Code, or one for which a legal building permit has been issued.
   3.   “Congregate housing” means and refers to the same as “independent group
residence” except that some or all of the dwelling units do not have kitchen
facilities, and connected with which there is a central dining facility to
provide meals for occupants.
   4.   “Deterioration” means that the window is no longer able to keep out
wind, snow, or rain; or that broken glass presents a hazard.
   5.   “Dwelling” means any building, structure or mobile home except
temporary housing which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used for
living or sleeping by human occupants and including any appurtenances attached
thereto.
   6.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located with a
building forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used for
living, sleeping, cooking, or eating or both by one family.
   7.   “Dwelling unit, rental” means any dwelling unit which is or is intended
to be rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied.
   8.   “Egress” means an arrangement of existing facilities to assure a safe
means of exit from buildings.
   9.   “Family” means one or more individuals living together and sharing
common living, sleeping, cooking, or eating facilities.
   10.   “Housing Official” means the City Administrator/Clerk or the
individual and the individual’s designated representatives appointed by the
City Administrator/Clerk to administer and enforce the Housing Code.
   11.   “Independent group residence” means housing for the exclusive
residential use of two to 12 elderly, handicapped or disabled individuals,
excluding one or two resident assistants, if needed, who cannot live completely
independently and require a planned program of supportive services, and
designated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development as an
“independent group residence.”
   12.   “Lead-based paint” means any paint containing more lead than the level
established by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission as being the “safe”
level of lead in residential paint and paint products.
   13.   “Lockable” means a door or window that has a properly working lock, is
nailed shut, or is designed not to be opened such as a picture window.
   14.   “Multiple-unit residential building” means a residential building, an
apartment house or a portion of a building or an apartment house with four or
more units, hotel, motel, dormitory, or rooming house.
   15.   “Owner” means any person, agent, partnership, or corporation having a
legal or equitable interest in the property.
   16.   “Rooming house” means any dwelling, other than a nursing home, hotel,
or motel, or that part of any dwelling, containing one or more rooming units,
and in which persons either individually or as families are housed.
   17.   “Rooming unit” means any room or group of rooms forming a single
rental habitable unit or intended to be used for living or sleeping, but not
for cooking purposes.
   18.   “Severe deterioration” means that the window is no longer able to keep
out the wind, snow or rain, or that broken glass presents a hazard.
   19.   “Temporary housing” means any tent, trailer, motor home, or other
structure used for human shelter for less than 72 hours, which is designed to
be transported and which is not attached to the ground, to another structure,
or to any utility system on the same premises.
   20.   “Unit” means residential space for the private use of a family,
including individuals who comprise a family, such as an apartment, housing, or
independent group residence, which contains a living room, kitchen area,
bathroom, and bedroom.
159.02   REGISTRATION AND FEES.
   1.   Registration Required. No person shall operate a rental dwelling unit,
rooming house, congregate housing, or independent group residence unless the
person has first registered such rental dwelling unit, rooming house,
congregate housing, or independent group residence with the City. There shall
be no fee for such registration.
   2.   Duration of Registration. Such registration shall remain in effect
until there occurs a change in ownership or designation of agents of the rental
dwelling unit, rooming house, congregate housing, or independent group
residence. Upon the sale of any rental dwelling unit, rooming house, congregate
housing, or independent group residence the seller shall immediately notify the
Housing Official and an inspection will be performed prior to the new owner
taking possession of the property, unless an inspection has been performed
within the 30 days preceding the sale. In such event, the owner, operator, or
agent of such property shall register such property with the City within 60
days of such change in ownership.
   3.   Change of Tenancy. Upon a change in tenancy of any rental dwelling
unit, rooming house, congregate housing, or independent group residence, the
owner shall immediately notify the Housing Official and an inspection will be
performed prior to the new tenant taking possession of the property, unless an
inspection has been performed within the 30 days preceding the sale.
   4.   Registration Form. Registration shall not be in effect unless the
owner, operator, or agent has first made application on an application form
provided by the City. At the time of registration, the owner, operator, or
agent shall designate an agent for the service of process who is a resident of
the State.
   5.   Inspection Fees. The following fee schedule shall apply:
      A.   Regular inspections, as set forth in the plan of inspection,
including one re­inspection - $50.00 for inspection of the exterior structure,
common areas, basement, and attic, plus $15.00 for each dwelling unit.
      B.   Complaint inspections - $25.00 for each complaint inspection, if a
violation of the Housing Code is found; no fee if no violation of the Housing
Code is found.
      C.   If inspection only involves a common area and no dwelling units,
there is a $15.00 inspection fee. If the inspection involves some or all of the
units in the building, there is no additional fee for inspecting the common
area.
      D.   Reinspection - $50.00 per unit for each scheduled reinspection after
the initial inspection.
      E.   “No Shows” (scheduled inspections in which the owner, operator,
agent, tenant, or other representative of the owner is not present to permit
the inspector entrance to the premises) - $15.00 for each occurrence.
   6.   Payment of Fees. Fees shall be paid to the City within 30 days after
submittal of statement from the City. Failure to pay the fee due to the City
may be considered a nuisance, as set forth in Chapter 50 of this Code of
Ordinances, and may be abated under the terms of that chapter, including
assessment of the costs against the property for collection in the same manner
as the property tax.
159.03   PLANS OF INSPECTION.
   1.   Preparation of Plans. The Housing Official is authorized and directed
to develop and present to the Council for adoption, plans for the inspection of
dwelling units subject to the provisions of this chapter, including:
      A.   A plan for the regular inspection of all rental units, rooming
houses, congregate housing, and independent group residences.
      B.   A plan for the inspection of all residential dwellings contained
within the City upon receipt of complaints.
   2.   Inspection. The plan shall provide that all rental dwelling units will
be inspected before July 1, 2003, and that thereafter inspections will be on a
biannual basis.
   3.   Public Notice. Before making inspections pursuant to the plans
authorized in Subsection 1 of this section, the City shall publish a notice
advertising of the plan to inspect.
159.04   ENFORCEMENT.
   1.   Authority. The Housing Official is authorized and directed to enforce
all of the provisions of this Housing Code. For such purposes, the Housing
Official shall have the powers of a law enforcement officer.
   2.   Right of Entry.
      A.   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this Housing Code, or whenever the Housing Official or the
Housing Official’s authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe
that there exists in any building or upon any premises any condition or code
violation which makes such building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous,
the Housing Official may enter such building or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same to perform any duty imposed upon the Housing Official
by this Code of Ordinances, provided that if such building or premises be
occupied, the Housing Official shall first present proper credentials and
request entry. If such building or premises is unoccupied, the Housing Official
shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons
having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. If such
entry is refused, the Housing Official or the Housing Official’s authorized
representative shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure
entry.
      B.   When the Housing Official shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building or
premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as provided in
this section, to promptly permit entry by the Housing Official for the purpose
of inspection and examination pursuant to this Code of Ordinances.
   3.   Inspections. All buildings or structures within the scope of this
Housing Code shall be subject to inspection in accordance with and in the
manner provided by this Code of Ordinances and the International Building Code.
   4.   Requirements Not Covered by Code. Any requirement not specifically
covered by this Housing Code but found necessary for the safety, health, and
general welfare of the occupants of any dwelling shall be determined by the
Housing Official subject to appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
   5.   Rules and Regulations. The Housing Official is authorized to make,
adopt, revise, and amend procedural rules and regulations as the Housing
Official deems necessary to administer the purposes of this Housing Code.
   6.   Notice of Violation. Whenever the Housing Official determines that any
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, or the premises surrounding any of
these, fails to meet the requirements set forth in this Housing Code or
applicable rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto, the Housing Official,
in accordance with existing legislation, shall issue a written notice setting
forth the alleged failures, and advising the owner, occupant, operator or agent
that such failures must be corrected.
   7.   Service of Notice. The notice prescribed in subsection 6 of this
section shall:
      A.   Be served upon the owner, occupant, operator or agent of the
dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit personally or by first class or
certified mail, addressed to the owner, occupant, operator, or agent. If one or
more persons to whom such notice is addressed cannot be found after diligent
effort to do so, service may be made upon such persons by posting the notice in
or about the dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit described in the notice,
or by causing the notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation,
for a period of five consecutive days.
      B.   Be served upon a resident agent for the receipt of such services of
notice designated pursuant to Section
159.02(3).
   8.   Reinspection. At the end of the period of time allowed for the
correction of any violation alleged, the Housing Official shall reinspect the
dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit described in the notice. If upon
reinspection, the violations are determined by the Housing Official not to have
been corrected, the Housing Official may initiate legal proceedings for the
immediate correction of the alleged violations.
   9.   Emergency Orders. Whenever the Housing Official finds that an emergency
exists on any premises, or in any structure or part thereof, or in any
defective equipment which requires immediate action to protect the public’s
health and safety or that of the occupants thereof, the Housing Official may,
with proper notice and service as described in this chapter, issue an order
reciting the existence of such an emergency and requiring the vacating of the
premises or such action taken as the Housing Official deems necessary to meet
such emergency. Notwithstanding other provisions of this Housing Code, such
order shall be effective immediately, and the premises or equipment involved
shall be placarded immediately upon service of the order. Any person to whom
such order is directed shall comply with the order. Such person may thereafter,
upon petition directed to the Board of Adjustment, be afforded a hearing as
prescribed in this Housing Code. Depending upon the findings of the Board at
such hearings as to whether the provisions of this Code and the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to the Code have been complied with, the Board
shall continue such order or modify or revoke it.
159.05   PENALTIES AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS.
   1.   Actions Authorized. The Housing Official shall take any action
authorized by this chapter to assure compliance, or to prevent violations of
its provisions. Specifically, this may include citation for municipal
infractions pursuant to
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances. The Housing Official may recommend to the
City Attorney the institution of other legal or equitable actions for the
enforcement of this chapter.
   2.   Each Day a Violation. Each act of violation and every day upon which a
violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense.
   3.   Applicability. No penalty shall be assessed for a violation of this
chapter as for the time that the dwelling unit is vacant and remains vacant.
However, no dwelling unit for which an order or notice of an alleged violation
of this Code has been issued may be reoccupied until such time that the
violation has been corrected and a Certificate of Inspected Housing has been
issued. In the event that a dwelling or dwelling unit becomes vacant before the
violation has been corrected and a Certificate of Inspected Housing has been
issued, the Housing Official may post a notice on or about the dwelling or
dwelling unit. The notice shall state the described dwelling or dwelling unit
that contains Housing Code violations and that such dwelling or dwelling unit
shall not be occupied until such time that the violations have been corrected
and a Certificate of Inspected Housing has been issued. It is the
responsibility of the owner or agent to inspect the premises at least every 30
days to make sure the notice is still posted on the property. It is a violation
of this Code to remove or deface such notice until a Certificate of Inspected
Housing has been issued. It is the responsibility of the owner or agent to
notify the Housing Official within 72 hours if the notice is removed prior to
the issuance of the Certificate of Inspected Housing.
   4.   Prosecution. In case there is no prompt compliance with any violation
order, the Housing Official may issue a citation pursuant to Sections 805.1
through 805.5 of the Code of Iowa and request the City Attorney to institute an
appropriate action or proceeding at law to exact the penalty provided herein
and, in addition, may ask the legal representative to proceed at law or in
equity against the person responsible for the violation for the purpose of
ordering the person:
      A.   To restrain, correct, remove the violation or refrain from any
further execution of work;
      B.   To restrain or correct the erection, installation, or alteration of
such structure;
      C.   To require the removal of work in violation;
      D.   To prevent the occupation or use of the structure, or part of the
structure erected, constructed, installed, altered, or maintained in violation
of the provisions of this Code.
   5.   Other Remedies. The City Attorney is authorized to pursue any other
remedy available in law or equity to correct violations of the provisions of
this Housing Code.
159.06   RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   1.   Appeals Process.
      A.   Any person aggrieved by a written notice of the City issued in
connection with any alleged violation of this Housing Code or of any applicable
rule or regulation issued pursuant to the Housing Code or by any order
requiring repair or demolition, may apply in writing to the Board of Adjustment
for a reconsideration of such notice or order provided that such application is
made within 30 calendar days after the date of postmark of notice or proof of
service. There shall be a $50.00 fee paid for filing an appeal.
      B.   Upon receipt of any appeal filed pursuant to this section, the
Housing Official shall present it at the next regular or special meeting of the
Board.
      C.   As soon as practicable after receiving a written appeal, the Board
shall hold a public meeting to consider the appeal. The applicant shall be
advised in writing of the time and place of such meeting at least four days
prior to the date of the meeting. At such meeting, the applicant shall be given
an opportunity to be heard and to show cause why such notice or order should be
modified, extended, withdrawn, or variance granted. The Board may, in its
discretion, hold a public hearing on any matter brought before the Board.
      D.   The Board, by a majority vote, may sustain, modify, or withdraw the
notice or order. In granting an extension or variance of any notice or order,
the Board shall observe the following conditions:
         (1)   The Board may grant an extension of time for the compliance of
any notice or order for not more than 18 months subject to appropriate
condition and provided that the Board makes specific findings of fact based on
evidence relating to the following:
            a.   That there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
in carrying out the strict letter of any notice or order.
            b.   That such an extension is in harmony with the general purpose
and intent of this Housing Code in securing the public health, safety, and
general welfare.
         (2)   The Board may grant a variance in a specific case and from a
specific provision of this Housing Code subject to appropriate conditions and
provided the Board makes specific findings of fact based on evidence relating
to the following:
            a.   That there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
in carrying out the strict letter of any notice or order.
            b.   That the effect of the application of the provisions would be
arbitrary in the specific case.
            c.   That an extension would not constitute an appropriate remedy
for these practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in this arbitrary
effect.
            d.   That such a variance is in harmony with the general purpose
and intent of this Housing Code in securing the public health, safety, and
general welfare.
      E.   Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall constitute a waiver of the right to an
administrative hearing and adjudication of the notice and order or to any
portion thereof.
      F.   Enforcement of any notice or order issued under this Code shall be
stayed during the duration of an appeal of the order, which is properly and
timely filed.
159.07   SCOPE.
The requirements and standards set forth in Section
159.08 through Section
159.21 of this chapter shall apply to all residential dwelling units and their
premises in the City.
159.08   ACCESS AND EXITS.
   1.   Performance Requirement. The dwelling unit shall be usable and capable
of being maintained without unauthorized use of other private properties, and
the building shall provide an alternate means of egress in case of fire.
   2.   Acceptability Criteria. The dwelling unit shall be usable and capable
of being maintained without unauthorized use of other private properties, and
the building shall provide an alternate means of egress in case of fire
including, but not limited to, fire stairs or egress through windows.
   3.   Maintenance of Exits. Exits serving every building, structure, or
confined area which are used or intended to be used at any time for human
occupancy shall be maintained in accordance with this Housing Code.
   4.   Performance Standards. Sole access to the dwelling unit may not be
through another dwelling unit. Alternate means of egress may include:
      A.   An openable window if the unit is on the first or second floor or
easily accessible to the ground.
      B.   A back door opening onto a porch with a stairway leading to the
ground.
      C.   Such other methods as permitted by this Code of Ordinances.
      D.   Required exits shall not be blocked or otherwise unusable.
159.09   ILLUMINATION AND ELECTRICITY.
   1.   Performance Requirement. Each room shall have adequate or artificial
illumination to permit normal indoor activities and to support the health and
safety of the occupants. Sufficient electrical sources shall be provided to
permit use of essential electrical appliances while assuring safety from fire.
The following performance standards shall be met:
      A.   Windows must be free of signs of deterioration or missing or broken-
out windowpanes. Windowpanes must not be dangerously loose. Windows must be
able to close and when closed, form a reasonably tight seal to prevent drafts
from entering the room.
      B.   The required light fixtures and outlets must be present and working.
Light fixtures must be securely fastened to a ceiling or wall and not movable.
      C.   The electrical system shall not contain the following:
         (1)   Broken or frayed electrical wires.
         (2)   Bare metal wires not covered by rubber or plastic insulation.
         (3)   Loose or improper wire connections to outlets.
         (4)   Light fixtures hanging from electric wire.
         (5)   Missing or cracked cover plates on switches or outlets.
         (6)   Rubber or plastic-coated electrical wiring in a room that is
mounted on the surface of a wall or ceiling in a manner that allows it to be
broken, cut or damaged in other ways. This standard applies to surface mounted
non-metallic sheathed wires including, but not limited to, “Romex.”
         (7)   Lamp cord used as part of the permanent wiring.
         (8)   Electric cords under rugs or other floor covering.
         (9)   Outlets or electric appliances located too near where water
might splash including, but not limited to, outlets too close to bathtubs.
         (10)   Exterior wiring and appliances unsuited to all-weather service.
      D.   Shared exits in every building, except single family, not new
dwellings, shall be illuminated at any time the building is occupied with
lights having an intensity of not less than one foot candle at floor level.
      E.   Every common hall and stairway in every building, not new, other
than single-family dwellings, shall be lighted with an illumination of at least
one foot candle at floor level. Such illumination shall be provided through the
normally traveled stairs and passageways.
   2.   Acceptability Criteria. Living and sleeping rooms shall include at
least one window. A ceiling or wall type light fixture shall be present and
working in the bathroom and kitchen area. At least two electric outlets, one of
which may be an overhead light, shall be present and operable in the living
area, kitchen area and each bedroom area.
   3.   Electrical Equipment. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances
shall be installed and maintained in a safe manner. All electrical equipment
shall be of an approved type.
      A.   Maximum Voltage. Plug fuses and fuse holders shall not be used in
circuits exceeding 125 volts between conductors with the exception of circuits
supplied by a system having a grounded neutral and having no conductor at over
150 volts to ground.
      B.   Markings. Each fuse, fuse holder, and adapter shall be marked with
its ampere rating.
      C.   Hexagonal Configuration. Plug fuses of 15 ampere and lower rating
shall be identified by a hexagonal configuration of the window, cap, or other
prominent part to distinguish them from fuses of higher ampere ratings.
      D.   No Live Parts. Plug fuses, fuse holders, and adapters shall have no
exposed live parts after fuses or fuses and adapters have been installed.
      E.   Screw Shell. The screw shell of a plug-type fuse holder shall be
connected to the load side of the circuit.
      F.   Classification. Plug fuses of the Edison-base type shall be
classified at not over 125 volts and 0 to 30 amperes.
      G.   Replacement Only. Plug fuses of the Edison-base type shall be used
only for replacements in existing installations where there is no evidence of
over-fusing or tampering.
      H.   Edison-Base Fuse Holders. Fuse holders of the Edison-base type shall
be installed only where they are made to accept Type S fuses by the use of
adapters.
      I.   Type S Fuses. Type S fuses shall be of the plug type and shall
comply with all of the following:
         (1)   Classification. S fuses shall be classified at not over 125
volts and nine to 15 amperes, 16 to 20 amperes and 21 to 30 amperes.
         (2)   Non-interchangeable. Type S fuses of an ampere classification as
specified in Paragraph 1 above shall not be interchangeable with a lower ampere
classification. They shall be so designed that they cannot be used in any fuse
holder other than a Type S fuse holder or a fuse holder with a Type S adapter
inserted.
      J.   To Fit Edison-Base Fuse Holders. Adapters shall fit Edison-base fuse
holders.
      K.   To Fit Type S Fuses Only. Type S fuse holders and adapters shall be
so designed that either the fuse holder itself or the fuse holder with a Type S
adapter inserted cannot be used for any fuse other than a Type S fuse.
      L.   Non-removable. Type S adapters shall be so designed that once
inse1ied in a fuse holder, they cannot be removed.
      M.   Non-tamperable. Type S fuses, fuse holders, and adapters shall be so
designed that tampering, shunting, or bridging would be difficult.
      N.   Interchangeability. Dimensions of Type S fuses, fuse holders, and
adapters shall be standardized to permit interchangeability regardless of the
manufacturer.
   4.   Exit Illumination. Shared exits in every building, except single-family
dwellings, shall be illuminated at any time the building is occupied with
lights having an intensity of not less than one foot candle at floor level.
   5.   Illumination in Public Areas. Every common hall and stairway in every
building, other than one-family dwellings, shall be adequately lighted at all
times with an illumination of at least one foot candle at floor level. Such
illumination shall be provided throughout the normally traveled stairs and
passageways.
159.10   FIRE WARNING SYSTEMS.
It is the responsibility of the owner, operator, or agent of the dwelling unit
to provide smoke detectors conforming to 911 of the following for each dwelling
unit or rooming unit:
   1.   Every dwelling unit and every rooming unit in a rooming house used for
sleeping purposes shall be provided with smoke detectors.
      A.   In dwelling units, detectors shall be mounted on the ceiling or wall
at a point centrally located in the corridor or area giving access to rooms
used for sleeping purposes.
      B.   In an efficiency dwelling unit, the detector shall be centrally
located on the ceiling of the main room and central corridor.
      C.   Where sleeping rooms are on an upper level, the detector shall be
placed at the center of the ceiling directly above the stairway.
   2.   All detectors shall be located in accordance with approved
manufacturer’s instructions. When actuated, the detector shall provide an alarm
in the dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   3.   In new construction, required smoke detectors shall receive their
primary power from the bonding wiring when such wiring is served from a
commercial source. Wiring shall be permanent and without a disconnecting switch
other than those required for over­current protection.
   4.   Smoke detectors may be battery operated when installed in existing
buildings or in buildings without commercial power, or in existing buildings
which undergo alterations, repairs, or additions.
   5.   All multiple-unit residential buildings shall be equipped with at least
one smoke detector in each corridor, unless that building is equipped with heat
detection devices or a sprinkler system with alarms approved by the State Fire
Marshal.
It is the responsibility of the tenant to maintain the smoke detectors and to
periodically test the smoke detectors in accordance with manufacturer's
instructions.
159.11   PLUMBING EQUIPMENT.
All plumbing equipment, pipes, and appliances shall be installed and maintained
in a safe manner. All plumbing equipment shall be of an approved type. The
following performance standards shall apply:
   1.   Plumbing pipes and fixtures shall be free from major leaks.
   2.   Pipes shall not be corroded to the point of causing serious and
persistent levels of rust or contamination in the drinking water.
   3.   The hot water heater must be located, equipped, and installed in a safe
manner. No combustible materials may be piled up against the heater. The hot
water heater must have a temperature-pressure relief valve and discharge line
directed toward the floor. Hot water heater flues must have adequate clearance
from combustible materials. Hot water heater flues must safely vent exhaust
gases and have a slope of at least one-quarter inch for each foot of run. The
hot water heater must not have any serious leaks.
159.12   FOOD PREPARATION AND REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   1.   Performance Requirement. The dwelling unit shall contain suitable space
and equipment to store, prepare and serve foods in a sanitary manner. There
shall be adequate facilities and services for the sanitary disposal of food
wastes and refuse, including facilities for temporary short storage where
necessary.
   2.   Acceptability Criteria. The unit shall contain the following equipment
in proper operating condition: cooking stove or range and a refrigerator of
appropriate size for the unit, supplied by either the owner or the tenant, and
a kitchen sink with hot and cold running water. The sink shall drain into an
approved public or private system. Adequate space for the storage, preparation
and serving of food shall be provided. There shall be adequate facilities and
services for the sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse, including
facilities for temporary storage where necessary including, but not limited to,
garbage cans.
   3.   Performance Standards. The following performance standards shall be
applied:
      A.   Oven and stove or range must be present and working. Appliances must
not contain any hazardous gas hookups. Hot plates are not acceptable
substitutes for an oven, stove, or range.
      B.   The refrigerator must maintain a temperature low enough to keep food
from spoiling over a reasonable period of time. The refrigerator must have at
least some capability for storing frozen foods.
      C.   The kitchen or kitchen area must have a permanently attached kitchen
sink. The sink must have running hot and cold water from the faucets and a
property connected drain with gas trap.
      D.   The unit must have space for food storage which may include
pantries, closets containing shelves, a table used for storage or a portable
storage cabinet.
      E.   The unit must have space for food preparation and serving, which may
include built-in space such as counter-tops or a table used for food
preparation.
      F.   The unit shall have use of trash cans with covers, garbage chutes,
dumpsters or trash bags for temporary storage and disposal of food wastes,
garbage, and refuse.
159.13   INTERIOR AIR QUALITY.
   1.   Performance Requirement. The dwelling unit shall be free of pollutants
in the air at levels which threaten the health of the occupant.
   2.   Acceptability Criteria. The dwelling units shall be free from dangerous
levels of air pollution from carbon monoxide, sewer gas, fuel gas, dust, and
other harmful air pollutants. Air circulation shall be adequate throughout the
unit. Bathroom areas shall have at least one openable window or other adequate
exhaust ventilation.
   3.   Performance Standards. The following performance standards shall be
applied:
      A.   The unit shall not contain levels of noxious gases such as carbon
monoxide, sewer gas, fuel gas, dust which are consistently present in amounts
that would constitute a continuing health hazard to the occupants.
      B.   Bathroom areas must have either an openable window or a working
exhaust vent system. Acceptable exhaust ventilation systems include electric
fan vent, either wall or ceiling mounted; gravity flow chimney effect vent
pipes; shafts that allow air to escape to the outside without an electric fan;
or re-circulating charcoal filter system. If the ventilation system is an
electric fan type, the fan must operate when the fan is switched on. Windows
and other ventilation systems must vent to the outside, attic, or crawlspace.
159.14   SANITARY FACILITIES.
   1.   Performance Requirement. The dwelling unit shall include its own
sanitary facilities which are in proper operating condition, can be used in
privacy, and are adequate for personal cleanliness and the disposal of human
waste.
   2.   Acceptability Criteria. A flush toilet in a separate private room, a
fixed basin with hot and cold running water, and a shower or tub with hot and
cold running water shall be present in the dwelling unit, all in proper
operating condition. These facilities shall utilize an approved public or
private disposal system.
   3.   Performance Standards. The following performance standards shall be
applied:
      A.   A flush toilet must be contained within the dwelling unit and
available for the exclusive use of the occupants of the unit. Out-houses or
facilities shared by occupants of other dwelling units are not acceptable. The
toilet must allow for privacy and be closed off by a door.
      B.   The toilet must be in working condition. The toilet must have the
following:
         (1)   Be connected to a water supply and sewer drain.
         (2)   Connections, vents, and traps in sound condition. Connections,
vents, and traps must not allow severe leakage of water or escape of gases.
         (3)   Toilet must flush without clogging.
      C.   The bathroom area must have a working permanently installed wash
basin. A kitchen sink is not acceptable, but a wash basin may be located
separate from the other bathroom facilities including, but not limited to, in a
hallway.
      D.   The wash basin must be connected to a system that delivers hot and
cold running water; connected to a drain with a gas trap; must not be clogged;
and must not have connections that allow severe leakage of water or escape of
sewer gases.
      E.   The dwelling unit must have a working tub or shower connected to a
system that delivers hot and cold running water; must not be clogged; and must
not have connections that allow severe leakage of water or escape of sewer
gases.
      F.   The sanitary facilities must be connected to the City sewer system
or a private disposal system meeting the requirements of the County Board of
Health.
159.15   SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   1.   Performance Requirement. The dwelling unit and its equipment shall be
in sanitary condition.
   2.   Acceptability Criteria. The dwelling unit and its equipment shall be
free of vermin and rodent infestation.
   3.   Performance Standards. The dwelling unit and its equipment shall be
free from rats and severe infestation by mice or vermin including, but not
limited to, roaches, as evidenced by vermin runs, large vermin holes,
droppings, and numerous settings of vermin poison.
159.16   WATER SUPPLY.
   1.   Performance Requirement. The water supply shall be free from
contamination.
   2.   Acceptability Criteria. The unit shall be served by an approved public
or private sanitary water supply.
   3.   Performance Standards. The unit must be connected to the City water
system or to a private water system meeting the requirements of the County
Board of Health.
159.17   LEAD BASED PAINT.
   1.   Performance Requirement. The dwelling unit shall be in compliance with
HUD lead-based paint regulations, 24 C.F.R., Part 35, issued pursuant to the
Lead-based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act, 42 U.S.C. 4821-4846; and the owner
shall provide a certification that the dwelling is in accordance with such HUD
regulations. If the property was constructed prior to 1950, the family upon
occupancy shall be furnished the notice required by HUD lead-based paint
regulations and procedures regarding the hazards of lead-based paint poisoning,
the symptoms and treatment of lead poisoning, and the precautions to be taken
against lead poisoning.
   2.   Acceptability Criteria. The acceptability criteria are the same as
performance requirements.
   3.   Performance Standards. Exterior surfaces of the dwelling covered with
lead-based paint, including walls, stairs, railings, windows, and doors, less
than four feet in height, must be free from noticeable cracking, scaling,
peeling, chipping, and loose paint; or adequately treated or covered to prevent
exposure of children to lead-based paint hazards.
159.18   THERMAL ENVIRONMENT.
   1.   Performance Requirement. The dwelling unit shall have and be capable of
maintaining a thermal environment healthy for the human body.
   2.   Acceptability Criteria. The dwelling unit shall contain safe heating or
cooling facilities, or both, which are in proper operating condition and can
provide adequate heat or cooling, or both, to each room in the dwelling unit
appropriate for the climate to assure a healthy living environment. Unvented
room heaters which burn gas, oil, or kerosene are unacceptable.
   3.   Performance Standards. The following performance standards shall be
applied:
      A.   The heating system must be capable of delivering a constant
temperature level of at least 62 degrees Fahrenheit, at a point three feet
above the floor and three feet from an exterior wall in bedrooms, living room,
kitchen, bathroom, and all other rooms used for living.
      B.   Unvented fuel burning space heaters are unacceptable.
      C.   Oil burning systems must meet all of the following standards:
         (1)   Fuel oil tanks must be raised up off of the floor on a stable
base to prevent movement.
         (2)   The fuel line must have a shut-off valve at the base of the tank
to turn off the flow of fuel.
         (3)   Any fuel oil line that runs across the floor must be protected
to prevent any damage.
         (4)   The oil tanks must be vented and filled from the outside of the
unit.
      D.   Gas burning systems must meet all of the following standards:
         (1)   No gas shall be stored on the premises except for units not
served by the gas utility, in which case gas must be stored in propane tanks.
         (2)   The furnace must have a manual shut-off device.
         (3)   There shall be no storage of gasoline cans, gasoline burning
engines or gasoline tanks in any living unit.
      E.   Combustible material must not be stored around the furnace.
      F.   Fuel burning heating systems must be properly vented to the outside.
The flue pipe and collar around it must be tight against the wall to prevent
escape of fumes. There must be adequate clearance between the flue and any
combustible materials.
      G.   The heating system must be properly installed.
      H.   Heating equipment must not have a heavy build-up of soot and
creosote around the chimney or flue or be in a state of disrepair. All masonry
chimneys shall have liners.
      I.   There must be an adequate source of clean return air. Clean return
air must be free of any exhaust gases.
      J.   The unit must be capable of being cooled by either some operable
windows or working cooling equipment including, but not limited to, a central
fan ventilation system, an evaporative cooling system, room, or central air
conditioning.
159.19   STRUCTURE AND MATERIALS.
   1.   Performance Requirement. The dwelling unit shall be structurally sound
so as not to pose any threat to the health and safety of the occupants and so
as to protect the occupants from the environment.
   2.   Acceptability Criteria. Ceilings, walls, and floors shall not have any
serious defects including, but not limited to, severe bulging or leaning, large
holes, loose surface materials, severe buckling, or noticeable movement under
walking stress, missing parts, or other serious damage. The roof structure
shall be firm, and the roof shall be weather-tight. The exterior wall structure
and exterior wall surface shall not have any serious defects including, but not
limited, to serious leaning, buckling, sagging, cracks or holes, loose siding,
or other serious damage. The condition and equipment of interior and exterior
stairways, halls, porches, walkways, and so forth, shall be such as not to
present a danger of tripping or falling. Elevators shall be maintained in a
safe and operating condition. In the case of a manufactured/mobile home, the
home shall be securely anchored by a tie-down device which distributes and
transfers the loads imposed by the unit to appropriate ground anchors so as to
resist wind, overturning and sliding.
   3.   Performance Standards. The following performance standards shall be
applied:
      A.   Ceilings. Ceilings shall not have such serious defects that either a
potential exists for structural collapse or that large cracks or holes allow
significant drafts to enter the unit. This condition includes, but is not
limited to, severe bulging or buckling; large holes; falling surface materials
other than paint or paper; loose sections or unkeyed plaster in danger of
falling; many missing parts such as ceiling tile.
      B.   Windows. All windows must be free of signs of severe deterioration
or missing or broken out panes. The condition of “severe deterioration”
includes, but is not limited to, dangerously loose, cracked panes; windows that
will not close; windows that, when closed, do not form a reasonable tight seal,
and allow serious drafts to enter.
      C.   Floors. Floors shall not have such serious defects that a potential
exists for structural collapse or other threats to safety such as tripping.
Floors shall not have large cracks or holes that allow substantial drafts or
vermin to enter from below the floor. Floors shall be free from buckling or
major movement under walking stress. Large sections of the floor shall not be
damaged or missing parts including, but not limited to, floorboards.
      D.   Foundation. The foundation must be sound and free from hazards. The
foundation must not contain any of the following features: evidence of major
recent settling; large cracks or holes; severe leaning; large sections of
crumbling brick, stone, or concrete; undermining of footings, walls, posts, or
slab; major deterioration of wood support members due to water damage or
termite or other insect damage.
      E.   Stairs, Rails, and Porches. Stairs, porches, balconies, or decks
shall not have severe structural defects including, but not limited to, broken,
rotten or missing steps; absence of a handrail when there are four or more
consecutive steps; absence of or insecure railings around a porch or balcony
which is 30 inches or more above the ground. Open guardrail and stair railings
shall have intermediate rails or an ornamental pattern such that a sphere six
inches in diameter cannot pass through. Steps leading to the dwelling unit
which are not physically attached to the building, such as steps up a steep
lawn from the sidewalk, must meet the performance standards set forth in this
section.
      F.   Roofs and Gutters. Roofs shall be sound and free from hazards
including, but not limited to, serious buckling or sagging that indicates the
potential of structural collapse; large holes or other defects that would allow
significant air or water infiltration. Severe exterior defects to the roof may
be identified by serious defects within the unit such as buckling or water
damage. Gutters and downspouts shall not be deteriorated to the point that they
cause significant amounts of water to enter the unit to the point of resulting
in deterioration of the interior of the unit including, but not limited to,
rotting an exterior wall. The absence of gutters is not a violation.
      G.   Exterior Walls. Exterior walls shall be sound and free from such
hazards including, but not limited to, buckling, bowing, or leaning. Exterior
walls must not contain large cracks or falling or missing pieces of masonry.
Exterior walls must not be deteriorated to the point that significant amounts
of water or serious drafts are allowed to penetrate the unit to the point of
resulting in deterioration of the interior of the unit including, but not
limited to, rotting an exterior wall.
      H.   Chimneys. The chimney must not be seriously leaning or show evidence
of deterioration or disintegration of its parts. The chimney must be capable of
venting exhaust gases and smoke reasonably well.
      I.   Interior Stairs and Hallways. Interior stairs and hallways must be
free from safety hazards to the occupants including, but not limited to: loose
or broken steps or handrails on stairways; missing steps; an accumulation of
objects on the stairways or in the hallways to the point of posing a threat of
tripping or falling or impeding safe travel; missing steps; ripped, torn, or
frayed stair or floor coverings including, but not limited to, carpets or
rubber mats; or large numbers of missing vertical railings including, but not
limited to, balustrades missing. A handrail is required on sections of stairs
with four or more consecutive steps and on unprotected heights like stairwells.
      J.   Other Interior Hazards. The interior of the unit shall be free from
other interior hazards including, but not limited to: protruding nails or
jagged edges of fixtures at a level at which someone could be cut; door
partially broken off its hinges; other fixtures in danger of falling,
collapsing or deteriorating or otherwise presenting a hazard to the safety or
health of the occupants.
      K.   Elevators. Where elevators are in use, all elevators must have a
current inspection certificate.
      L.   Manufactured/Mobile Home Tie Downs. If the rental unit is a mobile
home, it must be securely tied down by the use of a tie-down device, anchor,
beam, or foundation bolt to prevent overturning, displacement, or other serious
damage during a windstorm.
159.20   SPACE AND SECURITY.
   1.   Performance Requirement. The dwelling unit shall afford the family
adequate space and security.
   2.   Acceptability Criteria. A living room, kitchen area, and bathroom shall
be present; and a dwelling unit shall contain at least one sleeping and living/
sleeping room of appropriate size for each two persons. Exterior doors and
windows accessible from outside the unit shall be lockable.
   3.   Performance Standards. The following performance standards shall be
applied:
      A.   The dwelling unit must have a kitchen or kitchen area for the
preparation and storage of food. It may be either a separate room or an area of
a larger room such as a kitchen area in an “efficiency apartment.”
      B.   The dwelling unit must have at least one sleeping room for each two
occupants of the unit.
      C.   The dwelling unit must have one bathroom present in the dwelling
unit for the exclusive use of the occupant.
      D.   The dwelling unit must have at least one habitable room which is not
a kitchen area or bathroom. An “efficiency apartment,” which is a living/
sleeping room with a kitchen area designed into it, is considered a living room
and is acceptable.
      E.   The following fixtures must be lockable: windows and doors that open
to the outside or to a common public hall; windows with sills less than six
feet off of the ground; windows or doors leading onto a fire escape, porch, or
other outside places that can be reached from the ground.
159.21   SITE AND NEIGHBORHOOD.
   1.   Performance Requirement. The site and neighborhood shall be reasonably
free from disturbing noises and reverberations and other hazards to the health,
safety, and general welfare of the occupant.
   2.   Acceptability Criteria. The site and neighborhood shall not be subject
to serious and adverse environmental conditions, natural or manmade including,
but not limited to, dangerous walks, steps, instability, flooding, poor
drainage, septic tank backups, sewage hazards, or mud slides, abnormal air
pollution, smoke, or dust; excessive noise, vibration or vehicular traffic,
excessive accumulation of trash; vermin or rodent infestation, or fire hazards.
   3.   Performance Standards. The site in and around the dwelling unit must be
reasonably free from conditions which seriously and continuously endanger the
health and safety of the resident. Such conditions include, but are not limited
to:
      A.   Other buildings on the property that pose serious hazards, such as
dilapidated shed, garage, or other out-buildings with potential for structural
collapse.
      B.   Evidence of major drainage problems.
      C.   Proximity to open sewer.
      D.   Fire hazards.
      E.   Accumulations of refuse including, but not limited to junked,
abandoned or inoperable vehicles; glass; nails; wire; trash; garbage or any
substance generating offensive odors and sights.
      F.   Noxious weeds and other rank growth on the property.
      G.   Uncovered hazards including, but not limited to open wells, open
cesspools, or open excavations of any kind that present a danger of tripping or
falling unless adequately safeguarded.
      H.   Dangerous walks or steps.
      I.   Septic tank backups, sewage hazards, or mud slides.
      J.   Vermin or rodent infestation.
159.22   ROOMING HOUSES.
   1.   Performance Requirement. Rooming houses shall meet all standards of
this Housing Code, except for Section
159.12 concerning food preparation and refuse disposal, Section
159.14 concerning sanitary facilities, Section
159.20 concerning space and security, Section
159.23 concerning congregate housing, and Section
159.24 concerning independent group residences.
   2.   Other Requirements. In addition, all of the following standards shall
apply:
      A.   The building shall contain and have ready access to a flush toilet
which can be used in privacy, a fixed basin with hot and cold running water,
and a shower or tub, or both, equipped with hot and cold running water, all in
proper operating condition and adequate for personal cleanliness and the
disposal of human wastes. These facilities shall utilize an approved public or
private disposal system, and shall be sufficient in number so that they need
not be shared by more than four occupants.
      B.   The rooming unit shall afford the occupant adequate space and
security. Exterior doors and windows accessible from outside each unit shall be
capable of being locked. An emergency exit plan shall be developed and
occupants shall be apprised of the details of the plan. Readily accessible fire
extinguishers shall be provided throughout the building and smoke detectors
shall be provided in every rooming unit and hallway.
159.23   CONGREGATE HOUSING.
   1.   Performance Requirement. Congregate housing shall meet all standards of
this Housing Code, except for Section
159.12 concerning food preparation and refuse disposal, Section
159.20 concerning space and security, Section
159.22 concerning rooming houses, and Section
159.24 concerning independent group residences.
   2.   Other Requirements. In addition, all of the following standards shall
apply:
      A.   The unit shall contain a refrigerator of appropriate size.
      B.   The sanitary facilities described in Section
159.14 shall be contained within the unit.
      C.   The central dining facilities and central kitchen shall be located
within the building or housing complex and be accessible to the occupants of
the congregate units, and shall contain suitable space and equipment to store,
prepare, and serve food in a sanitary manner by a food service or persons other
than the occupants and shall be for the primary use of occupants of the
congregate units and be sufficient in size to accommodate the occupants. There
shall be adequate facilities and services for the sanitary disposal of food
wastes and refuse, including facilities for temporary storage where necessary
including, but not limited to, garbage cans.
159.24   INDEPENDENT GROUP RESIDENCE.
   1.   Performance Requirement. Independent group residences shall meet all
standards of this Housing Code, except for Section
159.12 concerning food preparation and refuse disposal, Section
159.14 concerning sanitary facilities, Section
159.19 concerning structure and materials, Section
159.20 concerning space and security, Section
159.21 concerning site and neighborhood, Section
159.22 concerning rooming houses, and Section
159.23 concerning congregate housing.
   2.   Other Requirements. In addition, all of the following standards shall
apply:
      A.   The unit shall contain and have ready access to a flush toilet which
can be used in privacy, a fixed basin with hot and cold running water, all in
proper operating condition and adequate for personal cleanliness and disposal
of human wastes. These facilities shall utilize an approved public or private
disposal system and shall be sufficient in number so that they need not be
shared by more than four occupants. Those units accommodating occupants with
disabilities, with wheelchairs, or other special equipment shall provide access
to all sanitary facilities and shall provide as appropriate to needs to the
occupants, basins, and toilets of appropriate height; grab bars to toilets,
showers, or bathtubs or both; shower seats; and adequate space for movement.
      B.   The unit shall contain suitable space to store, prepare and serve
foods in a sanitary manner. A cooking stove or range, refrigerators of
appropriate size and in sufficient quantity for the number of occupants, and a
kitchen sink with hot and cold running water shall be present and in proper
operating condition. The sink shall drain into an approved private or public
system. Adequate space for the storage, preparation and serving of food shall
be provided. These shall be adequate facilities and services for the sanitary
disposal of food wastes and refuse including facilities for temporary storage
where necessary including, but not limited to garbage cans.
      C.   The dwelling unit shall afford the family adequate space and
security. A living room, kitchen, dining area, bathroom, and other appropriate
social unit or recreational community space shall be within the unit and a
dwelling unit shall contain at least one sleeping room of appropriate size for
each two persons. Exterior doors and windows accessible from outside each unit
shall be capable of being locked. An emergency exit plan shall be developed and
occupants shall be apprised of the details of the plan. Regular fire
inspections shall be conducted by appropriate local officials. Readily
accessible first-aid supplies and fire extinguishers shall be provided
throughout the unit, smoke detectors shall be provided and emergency phone
numbers including, but not limited to, police, ambulance, fire departments, and
so forth, shall be provided to each occupant. All emergency and safety features
and procedures shall meet applicable State and local standards.
      D.   The unit shall be structurally sound so as not to pose any threat to
the health and safety of the occupants and so as to protect the occupants from
the environment. Ceilings, walls, and floors shall not have any serious defects
including, but not limited to, severe bulging or leaning, large holes, loose
surface materials, severe buckling, or noticeable movement under walking
stress, missing parts, or other serious damage. The roof structure shall be
firm and roof shall be weather-tight. The exterior wall structure and exterior
wall surface shall not have any serious defects including, but not limited to,
serious leaning, buckling, sagging, cracks or holes, loose siding, or other
serious damage. The condition and equipment of interior and exterior stairways,
halls, porches, walkways, and so forth, shall be such as not to present a
danger of tripping or falling. Elevators shall be maintained in safe and
operating condition. Units accommodating occupants with disabilities, with
wheelchairs, and other special equipment shall not contain architectural
barriers which impede access or use, and handrails and ramps shall be provided
as appropriate.
      E.   The site and neighborhood shall be reasonably free from disturbing
noises and reverberations and other hazards to the health, safety, and general
welfare of the occupants, and shall not be subject to serious adverse
environmental conditions, natural or manmade, including but not limited to
dangerous walks, steps, instability, flooding, poor drainage, septic tank
backups, sewage hazards or mud slides; abnormal air pollution, smoke or dust;
excessive accumulations of trash, vermin or rodent infestation; or fire
hazards. The unit shall be located in a residential setting and be similar in
size and appearance to housing generally found in the neighborhood and be
within walking distance or accessible via public or available private
transportation to medical and other appropriate commercial and community
service facilities.
   3.   Supportive Services.
      A.   A planned program of adequate supportive services appropriate to the
needs of the occupants shall be provided on a continual basis by qualified
resident assistants residing in the unit or other qualified persons not
residing in the unit who will provide such services on a continual, planned
basis. Supportive services which are provided within the unit may include the
following types of services: counseling, social services which promote physical
activity, intellectual stimulation or social motivation, or both; training or
assistance with activities of daily living including housekeeping, dressing,
personal hygiene, grooming, or both; provision of basic first-aid skills in
case of emergencies; supervision of self-administration of medications, diet
and nutrition; an assurance that occupants obtain incidental medical care, as
needed, by facilitating the making of appointments at and transportation to
medical facilities. Supportive services provided within the unit shall not
include the provision of continual nursing, medical, or psychiatric care.
      B.   The provision and quality of the planned program of supportive
services, including the minimal qualifications, quantity, and working hours of
the resident assistants living in the unit or other persons providing continual
supportive services, shall be initially determined by the service agency in
accordance with the standards established by the State. Compliance with these
standards by the service agency shall be regularly monitored throughout the
term of the contract by the public housing appropriate State agency or a local
authority, other than the service agency providing services designated by the
State to establish, maintain, and enforce such standards.
      C.   Written service agreements or agreements approved by the State and
in effect between the owner and the service agency or the entities, or both,
which provide the necessary supportive service, shall be submitted to the
public housing agency with their request for lease approval. The lease shall
set forth the owner’s obligation for and means of providing these services. If
the lessor provides the supportive services, a service agreement is not
required and the provision of these services shall be incorporated into the
lease and shall be approved by the State.
   4.   State Approval. Independent group residences shall be licensed,
certified, or otherwise approved in writing by the appropriate State agency
prior to the execution of the initial contract. This approval shall be
reexamined periodically based on a schedule established by the State. To insure
the facilities and supportive services are appropriate to the needs of the
occupants, the State shall also approve the written service agreements or lease
if the provider of such services is the lessor, for each independent group
residence.
159.25   CERTIFICATION OF INSPECTED HOUSING.
Whenever the Housing Official has inspected or caused to be inspected any
dwelling unit and has determined that the dwelling unit is in compliance with
the provisions of this Housing Code, a certificate of inspected housing shall
be issued to the owner or the agent of the dwelling unit.
159.26   CONFLICT WITH ORDINANCES.
In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with
the provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety, or health ordinance or
code of the City or State existing on the effective date of this chapter, the
provision which establishes the higher standard for the promotion and
protection of the health and safety of the people shall prevail. In any case
where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with a provision
of any ordinance or code of the City existing on the effective date of this
chapter which establishes a lower standard for the promotion and protection of
the health and safety of the people, the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed to prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be
repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict with this chapter.
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
 
160.01 Definitions                               160.06 Variance Procedures
160.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of Fact and 160.07 Nonconforming Uses
Purpose
160.03 General Provisions                        160.08 Penalties for Violation
160.04 Administration                            160.09 Amendments
160.05 Floodplain Management Standards            
 
160.01   DEFINITIONS.
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   1.   “Appurtenant structure” means a structure which is on the same parcel
of the property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   2.   “Base flood” means the flood having one percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year (also commonly referred to as the “100-year
flood”).
   3.   “Base Flood Elevation” (BFE) means the elevation floodwaters would
reach at a particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
   4.   “Basement” means any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or
lowest level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest
floor.”
   5.   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage
of equipment or materials. “Development” does not include minor projects or
routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
   6.   “Enclosed area below lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest
enclosed area in a building when all the following criteria are met:
      A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions
of
160.05(4)(A) of this chapter; and
      B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking, or
storage; and
      C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one
foot above the base flood elevation; and
      D.   The enclosed area is not a basement, as defined in this section.
   7.   “Existing construction” means any structure for which the start of
construction commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
   8.   “Existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
   9.   “Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision” means
the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed
(including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   10.   “Factory-built home” means any structure, designed for residential use
which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled
in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For purposes of this chapter, factory-built homes include mobile
homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also includes recreational
vehicles which are placed on a site for greater than 180 consecutive days and
not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   11.   “Factory-built home park or subdivision” means a parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or
lease.
   12.   “500-year flood” means a flood, the magnitude of which has a two-
tenths percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which,
on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every 500 years.
   13.   “Flood” means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   14.   “Flood Insurance Rate Map” (FIRM) means the official map prepared as
part of (but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which
delineates both the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community.
   15.   “Flood Insurance Study” (FIS) means a report published by FEMA for a
community issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps. The
study contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water
surface elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
   16.   “Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water as a result of a flood.
   17.   “Floodplain management” means an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of
floodplains, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, floodproofing and floodplain management regulations.
   18.   “Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
   19.   “Floodway” means the channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to
carry and discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood
flows to the floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot.
   20.   “Floodway fringe” means those portions of the special flood hazard
area outside the floodway.
   21.   “Highest adjacent grade” means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   22.   “Historic structure” means any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register;
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either: (i) by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   23.   “Lowest floor” means the floor of the lowest enclosed area in a
building including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition
of “enclosed area below lowest floor” are met.
   24.   “Maximum damage potential development” means hospitals and like
institutions; buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or
instruments of great public value; buildings or building complexes containing
materials dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power
installations needed in emergency or other buildings or building complexes
similar in nature or use.
   25.   “Minor projects” means small development activities (except for
filling, grading, and excavating) valued at less than $500.00.
   26.   “New construction” (new buildings, factory-built home parks) means
those structures or development for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community.
   27.   “New factory-built home park or subdivision” means a factory-built
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after
the effective date of the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   28.   “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicle which is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis;
      B.   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   29.   “Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” means
repairs necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do
not trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
      A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles and replacing siding;
      B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work;
      C.   Basement sealing;
      D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes;
      E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating, or air
conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.
   30.   “Special Flood Hazard Area” (SFHA) means the land within the City
subject to the base flood. This land is identified on the City’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, and/or A99.
   31.   “Start of construction” includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   32.   “Structure” means anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories,
sheds, cabins, factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities,
and/or other similar uses.
   33.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be
included in the estimated cost of repair.
   34.   “Substantial improvement” means any improvement to a structure which
satisfies either of the following criteria:
      A.   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure
either: (i) before the start of construction of the improvement; or (ii) if the
structure has been substantially damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. The term does not, however, include any project for
improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of
a historic structure, provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as a historic structure.
      B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of
the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be
added to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in
original floor space would exceed 25 percent.
   35.   “Variance” means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of
the floodplain management regulations.
   36.   “Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to
be fully compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
160.02   STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE.
   1.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in Chapter 364 of the Code of
Iowa, as amended, delegated the power to cities to exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges, and property of the City or of its residents, and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort, and convenience of its
residents.
   2.   Findings of Fact.
      A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the community.
      B.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused
by: (i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood damages
which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately elevated or
otherwise protected from flooding; and (ii) the cumulative effect of
obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
      C.   The ordinance codified in this chapter relies upon engineering
methodology for analyzing flood hazards which is consistent with the standards
established by the Department of Natural Resources.
   3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges and property of the City and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and comfort and
convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses described in
Paragraph 2(A) of this section with provisions designed to:
      A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows
so that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
      B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
      C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
      D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
      E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.03   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all areas having special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of the
City. For purposes of this chapter, the special flood hazard areas are those
areas designated as Zone A on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for Clayton
County and Incorporated Areas, City of Garnavillo, Panel 19043C0325F, dated
July 22 nd , 2020, which were prepared as part of the Clayton County Flood
Insurance Study, shall be used to identify such flood hazard areas, and all
areas shown thereon to be within the boundaries of the base flood shall be
considered as having significant flood hazards. The Flood Insurance Study for
Clayton County is hereby adopted by reference and is made a part of this
chapter for the purpose of administering floodplain management regulations.
   2.   Rules for Interpretation of Flood Hazard Boundaries. The boundaries of
the Special Flood Hazard areas shall be determined by scaling distances on the
official Flood Insurance Rate Map. When an interpretation is needed as to the
exact location of a boundary, the Zoning Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals
when it is alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   3.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered,
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   4.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   5.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
   6.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
chapter are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside the designated special flood hazard areas will be
free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on
the part of the City or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages
that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
   7.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
160.04   ADMINISTRATION.
   1.   Appointment, Duties, and Responsibilities of Administrator.
      A.   The Zoning Administrator is hereby appointed to implement and
administer the provisions of this chapter and will herein be referred to as the
Administrator.
      B.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include, but
not necessarily be limited to the following:
         (1)   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied.
         (2)   Review floodplain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State and local governmental
agencies including approval when required from the Department of Natural
Resources for floodplain construction.
         (3)   Record and maintain a record of: (i) the elevation (in relation
to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of the lowest floor (including basement)
of all new or substantially improved structures; or (ii) the elevation to which
new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
         (4)   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of
Natural Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
         (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other
transactions and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this
chapter.
         (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
         (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
         (8)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this chapter and advise the Zoning Administrator
of potential conflict.
         (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Maps when:
            a.   Development placed within the Floodway results in an increase
in the base flood elevations or alteration to the floodway boundary.
            b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base flood elevation; or
            c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
   Within six months of the completion of the development, the applicant shall
submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter of Map
Revision.
         (10)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the
standards of this chapter.
         (11)   Forward all requests for variances to the Zoning Administrator
for consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily
submitted with applications, as well as any additional information deemed
necessary to the Zoning Administrator.
   2.   Floodplain Development Permit.
      A.   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any manmade
change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited to
buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
material and equipment, excavation, or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
      B.   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished
by the Administrator and shall include the following:
         (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
         (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(e.g., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
         (3)   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
         (4)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work
is intended.
         (5)   Elevation of the base flood.
         (6)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988 of
the lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to which a
structure is to be floodproofed.
         (7)   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
         (8)   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
      C.   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefor. The Administrator shall not issue
permits for variances except as directed by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on approved plans and applications
authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in such
approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement, or construction.
Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that authorized shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be required to submit
certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor, as appropriate,
registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished fill, structure floor
elevations, floodproofing, or other flood protection measures were accomplished
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the use or
occupancy of any structure.
160.05   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT STANDARDS.
All development must be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and
meet the following applicable performance standards. Where base flood
elevations have not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to determine: (i) whether
the land involved is either wholly or partly within the floodway or floodway
fringe; and (ii) the base flood elevation. The applicant will be responsible
for providing the Department of Natural Resources with sufficient technical
information to make such determination. Review by the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources is not required for the proposed construction of new or
replacement bridges or culverts where: (i) the bridge or culvert is located on
a stream that drains less than two square miles; and (ii) the bridge or culvert
is not associated with a channel modification that constitutes a channel change
as specified in 567 IAC 71.2(2).
   1.   All Development. All development within the special flood hazard areas
shall:
      A.   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement.
      B.   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      C.   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage.
      D.   Obtain all other necessary permits from federal, State, and local
governmental agencies including approval when required from the Iowa Department
of Natural Resources.
   2.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one foot above the base flood elevation. Construction shall be upon
compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than one foot above the
base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the
limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such
as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed subject to favorable
consideration by the City Council, where existing topography, street grades, or
other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such cases, the methods used must
be adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the various forces
and hazards associated with flooding. All new residential structures located in
areas that would become isolated due to flooding of surrounding ground shall be
provided with a means of access that will be passable by wheeled vehicles
during the base flood. However, this criterion shall not apply where the
Administrator determines there is sufficient flood warning time for the
protection of life and property. When estimating flood warning time,
consideration shall be given to the criteria listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa
Administrative Code.
   3.   Nonresidential Structures. All new or substantially improved
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation, or together with
attendant utility and sanitary systems, be flood proofed to such a level. When
floodproofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the State of
Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below the
base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
   4.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
      A.   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access and
low damage potential storage.
      B.   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
      C.   New and substantially improved structures must be constructed with
electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating, air
conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated or flood-proofed to a minimum of one foot
above the base flood elevation.
      D.   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
plumbing, gas lines, water meters, gas meters, and other similar service
utilities, either elevated (or, in the case of non-residential structures,
optionally flood-proofed to) a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation or designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a
level.
   5.   Factory-Built Homes.
      A.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure
is a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.
      B.   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions, shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors. Anchorage systems may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors as required by the State
Building Code.
   6.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
      A.   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
      B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well as
the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood elevation.
      C.   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the base flood
elevation.
      D.   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
   7.   Storage of Materials and Equipment. Storage of equipment and materials
that are flammable, explosive, or injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or:
(i) not subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent movement due
to flood waters; or (ii) readily removable from the area within the time
available after flood warning.
   8.   Flood Control Structures. Flood control structural works such as
levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base
flood with a minimum of three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage. In addition, structural flood control works shall
be approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
   9.   Watercourse Alterations. Watercourse alterations or relocations must be
designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion. In addition, such alterations or relocations must be
approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
   10.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
chapter. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots
(whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those areas
located within the Special Flood Hazard Area.
   11.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses. Detached garages, sheds, and
similar structures that are incidental to a residential use are exempt from the
base flood elevation requirements where the following criteria are satisfied.
      A.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential.
Its size shall not exceed 600 square feet in size. Those portions of the
structure located less than one foot above the BFE must be constructed of
flood-resistant materials.
      B.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage potential
purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure shall not
be used for human habitation.
      C.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      D.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
      E.   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or floodproofed to at least one foot above the base
flood elevation.
      F.   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of Subsection 4(A) of this section.
Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a structure may
result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of the structure
and its contents.
   12.   Recreational Vehicles.
      A.   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of Subsection
5 of this section regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes when
the following criteria are satisfied.
         (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than 180 consecutive days; and
         (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      B.   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
Subsection 5 of this section regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built
homes.
   13.   Pipeline Crossings. Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be
buried in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently protected to
prevent rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
   14.   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially
improved maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated a minimum of one foot above the elevation of the
500-year flood, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be
floodproofed to such a level. When floodproofing is utilized, a professional
engineer registered in the State of Iowa shall certify that the floodproofing
methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities,
impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with the base flood; and
that the structure, below the base flood elevation is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water. A record of the
certification indicating the specific elevation (in relation to North American
Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are flood proofed shall be
maintained by the Administrator. Where 0.2 percent chance flood elevation data
has not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of
Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The applicant will
be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with
sufficient technical information to make such determinations.
160.06   VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   1.   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may authorize upon request in specific
cases such variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be contrary
to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary
hardship. Variances granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      A.   Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
      B.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood would result. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
      C.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      D.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for structures than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that: (i) the issuance of a variance will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25.00 for $100.00 of insurance
coverage; and (ii) such construction increases risks to life and property.
      E.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
   2.   Factors upon Which the Decision of the Council Shall Be Based. In
passing upon applications for variances, the Council shall consider all
relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
      A.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
      B.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others.
      C.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
      D.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      E.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the City.
      F.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
      G.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
      H.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      I.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area.
      J.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      K.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood water expected at the site.
      L.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems), facilities, streets, and bridges.
      M.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
   3.   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the factors
listed above, the Council may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
      A.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
      B.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
      C.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed restrictions.
      D.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter.
      E.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the flood
protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated with
the regulatory flood. The Council shall require that the applicant submit a
plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
160.07   NONCONFORMING USES.
   1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
      A.   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
      C.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations, or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
   2.   Except as provided in Subsection 160.07(1)(B), any use which has been
permitted as a variance shall be considered a conforming use.
160.08   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
the requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than $500.00 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy violation.
160.09   AMENDMENTS.
The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to time
be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS
165.01 Definitions                      165.18 Administration and Enforcement
165.02 Establishment of Districts       165.19 Appeals from Decision of
                                        Administrative Officer
165.03 Adoption of Official Zoning Map  165.20 Interpretation of Provisions
165.04 Identification of Official       165.21 Violation and Penalties
Zoning Map
165.05 Changes in Official Zoning Map   165.22 Separate Offenses May Be Charged
165.06 Interpretation of District       165.23 Other Remedies
Boundaries
165.07 Schedules of District            165.24 Construction Compliance
Regulations                             Certificate
165.08 Supplementary District           165.25 Occupancy Compliance Certificate
Regulations
165.09 Application of District          165.26 Application for Compliance
Regulations                             Certificates
165.10 Nonconformities                  165.27 Fees
165.11 Nonconforming Lots of Record     165.28 Board of Adjustment
165.12 Nonconforming Uses of Land       165.29 Proceedings of the Board of
                                        Adjustment
165.13 Nonconforming Structures         165.30 Hearing, Appeals, Notice
165.14 Nonconforming Uses of Structures 165.31 Stay of Proceedings
165.15 Maintenance and Repair to        165.32 Powers and Duties of the Board
Nonconforming Structures                of Adjustment
165.16 Uses Under Exception Provisions  165.33 Decisions of the Board of
Not Nonconforming Uses                  Adjustment
165.17 Additional Uses and Structures   165.34 Appeals from the Board of
in C-1 and C-2                          Adjustment
                                       165.35 Changes and Amendments
                                       165.36 Application for Change of Zoning
                                        District Boundaries
 
165.01   DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this ordinance, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number
shall include the plural and the plural the singular; and the word "shall" is
mandatory and not directory.
   1.   “Accessory use” or “Building” means a use or building naturally and
normally incidental to, subordinate to, and devoted exclusively to the main use
of the land or building. Accessory buildings shall not be larger than the main
or principal building, otherwise they shall be considered a main or principal
building.
   2.   Adult Entertainment Businesses. The following definitions shall apply
to adult entertainment businesses:
      A.   “Adult bookstore” means an establishment having as a significant
portion of its stock in trade books, films, magazines, and other periodicals
which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or
describing “sex act(s)” or “specified anatomical areas.”
      B.   “Adult establishment” or “Cabaret” or “Juice bar” means an
establishment or cabaret, which features exotic dancers, strippers, male or
female impersonators, or similar entertainers which excludes minors by virtue
of age.
      C.   “Adult motel” means a motel wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing “sex
act(s)” or “specified anatomical areas.”
      D.   “Adult motion picture arcade” means any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to
five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting
or describing “sex act(s)” or “specified anatomical areas.”
      E.   “Adult motion picture theater” means an enclosed building used for
presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting or describing “sex act(s)” or “specified anatomical areas” for
observation by patrons therein.
For purposes of the foregoing, the term: “specified anatomical areas,” means as
follows: human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, and female breasts below a
point immediately above the top of the areola.
   3.   “Agricultural” means the use of land for agricultural purposes,
including farming, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, poultry growers, fish farms, nurseries, greenhouses, institutional
farms, fur farms, worm growers, and other such specialty activities, and animal
and poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for treating or storing
the produce; provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory uses
shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities.
   4.   “Alley” means a public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary
means of access to abutting property.
   5.   “Alterations, exterior” means any change to the outside of a structure
including, but not limited to windows, siding, roofing, and other similar
repairs or reconstruction.
   6.   “Alterations, structural” means any change in the supporting members of
a building such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   7.   “Apartment” means an apartment is a room or suite of rooms used as the
dwelling of a family, including bath and culinary accommodations.
   8.   “Apartment house” means a building arranged, intended, or designed to
be occupied by three or more families living independently of each other.
   9.   “Basement” means a story partly underground but having at least one-
half of the height of one or more walls above the highest level of the
adjoining ground. A basement shall be counted as a story for the purpose of
height regulation.
   10.   “Billboard” means any structure or portion of a building used for the
display of advertising of a business or attraction which is not carried on or
manufactured in or upon the premises upon which said billboard is located. This
includes painted exterior walls with pictures, words, or logos.
   11.   “Board” means the Zoning Board of Adjustment of the City.
   12.   “Boarding house/bed and breakfast” means a building other than a hotel
where, for compensation and by arrangement, meals or lodging and meals are
provided for not more than five guest families lodged at the same time.
   13.   “Building, height of” means the vertical distance from the grade to
the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard
roof, or to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and
gambrel roofs.
   14.   “Building line” means, for purposes of setback, the furthest extension
of the structure from the lot line. Distances are to be measured from the most
outwardly extended position of the structure. See “Yard.”
   15.   “Building permit” means a written statement issued by the Zoning
Administrator authorizing buildings, structures or uses consistent with the
terms of this chapter and for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing its
provisions.
   16.   “Building, structure” means anything constructed, erected, or built,
the use of which requires more or less permanent location on the ground and
designed for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of persons, animals,
chattels, or property of any kind including, but without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, installations such as signs, billboards, solar
panels, communication dishes, radio towers, and other facilities not designed
for storage of property or occupancy by persons.
   17.   “Business” means any occupation, employment, or enterprises wherein
merchandise is exhibited or sold, or where services are offered for
compensation.
   18.   “Carport” means a roofed structure providing space for the parking of
motor vehicles and enclosed on not more than two sides. For the purpose of this
chapter, a carport attached to a principal building shall be considered as part
of the principal building and subject to all yard requirements herein.
   19.   “Cellar” means a story having more than one-half of the height of all
walls below the highest level of the adjoining ground. A cellar shall not be
considered as a story for the purpose of this chapter.
   20.   “Clinics” means a building or buildings used by physicians, lawyers,
dentists, veterinarians, osteopaths, chiropractors, and allied professions for
out-patient care of persons requiring such professional service.
   21.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City.
   22.   “Day nursery” or “Nursery school” or “Day care” means any agency,
institution, individual, establishment or place which provides supplemental
parental care and/or educational work, other than lodging overnight, for
compensation on either a for profit or not-for-profit basis, as governed by the
provisions set forth in Section 441 Human Services, Chapter 110 of the Iowa
Administrative Code.
   23.   “District” means a section or sections of the area of the City for
which regulations governing the use of buildings and premises or the height and
area of buildings are uniform.
   24.   “Drive-in eating” or “Drinking establishment” means any place or
premises used for sale, dispensing, or serving of food, refreshments, or
beverages in automobiles, including those establishments where customers may
serve themselves and may eat or drink the food, refreshments, or beverages on
the premises.
   25.   “Dwelling” means any building or portion thereof which is designed for
and used exclusively for residential purposes.
   26.   “Dwelling, single-family” means a building designed for or occupied by
one family.
   27.   “Dwelling, two-family” means a building designed for or occupied
exclusively by two families.
   28.   “Dwelling, multiple” means a building designed for or occupied
exclusively by more than two families.
   29.   “Dwelling unit” means one room, or rooms connected together,
constituting a separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner
occupancy, or rental or lease on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and
physically separated from any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the
same structure, and containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   30.   “Essential services” means the erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance, by public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies,
or underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or
distribution systems, collection, communication, supply, or disposal systems,
including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire
alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, electrical
substations, and other similar equipment and accessories in connection
therewith; reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public
health or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
   31.   “Family” means one or more persons occupying a premises and living as
a single housekeeping unit, whether or not related to each other by birth,
adoption, or marriage, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
house, lodging house or hotel.
   32.   “Farm” means an area which is used for the growing of the usual farm
products such as vegetables, fruits and grains and their storage on the area,
as well as for the raising thereon of the usual farm poultry and farm animals.
The term farming includes the operating of such area for one or more of the
above uses with the necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the
produce, provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall
be secondary to that of the normal farming activity and such accessory uses do
not include the feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals, or
commercial feeding of animals or poultry in confined lots or buildings.
   33.   “Farmstead dwelling” means a dwelling located on a farm and occupied
by a person or family employed in the agricultural pursuits of the farm on
which it is located.
   34.   “Floor area” means the square feet of floor space within the outside
line of walls, including the total of all space on all floors of a building.
Floor area shall not include porches, garages or space in a basement or cellar
which is used for storage or incidental use.
   35.   “Frontage” means all the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the
street, or if the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on
one side between an intersecting street and the dead-end of the street.
   36.   “Garage, private” means an accessory building designed or used for the
storage of not more than four motor driven vehicles owned and used by the
occupants of the building to which it is accessory. Not more than one of the
vehicles may be a commercial vehicle.
   37.   “Garage, public” means a building or portion thereof, other than a
private or storage garage, designed or used for equipping, servicing,
repairing, hiring, selling, or storing motor driven vehicles.
   38.   “Garage, storage” means any building or premises, including a mini-
storage garage, used for storing motor driven vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles), recreational vehicles and trailers, boats, furniture, or other
miscellaneous personal property, excluding such things as automobile fuels and
oils or other hazardous or volatile substances, pursuant to previous
arrangements.
   39.   “Grade” means the average level of the finished surface of the ground
adjacent to the exterior walls of the building except when any wall
approximately parallels and is not more the five feet from a street line, then
the elevation of the street at the center of the wall adjoining the street
shall be grade.
   40.   “Group home” means a group home, or family home, means a community-
based residential home which is licensed as a residential care facility under
Chapter 135C or as a child foster care facility under Chapter 237 in the Code
of Iowa to provide room and board, personal care, habitation services, and
supervision in a family environment exclusively for not more than eight
developmentally disabled persons and any necessary support personnel. However,
a group home or family home does not mean an individual foster family home
licensed under Chapter 237 of the Code of Iowa.
   41.   “Hazardous waste” means waste designated as hazardous by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency or appropriate state agency.
   42.   “Health club” means a non-medical service establishment intended to
maintain or improve the physical condition of paying customers. Contains
exercise and game equipment and facilities, steam baths, saunas, hot tubs, or
similar equipment or facilities.
   43.   “Home industry” means any gainful occupation or profession conducted
entirely within an enclosed accessory building(s) and/or dwelling unit which is
clearly incidental and secondary to the residential occupancy and does not
change the character thereof. The accessory building shall not be larger than
the principal structure.
   44.   “Home occupation” means an occupation or a profession which:
      A.   Is customarily carried on in a dwelling unit, and may also be
allowed in an accessory building.
      B.   Is carried on by a member of the family residing in the dwelling
unit, and
      C.   Is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling unit
for residential purposes, and
      D.   Does not employ more than two persons outside the immediate family,
and
      E.   Has no exterior display, no exterior storage of materials, and no
other exterior indication of the home occupation or variation from the
residential character of the principal building, other than one exterior sign
mounted flush with the face of the building, which sign shall not exceed six
square feet in area.
      F.   Does not occupy more than one third of the area of one floor of the
dwelling unit, and
      G.   Produces no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, or
glare rendering such building or premises objectionable or detrimental to the
residential character of the neighborhood.
      H.   Two off-street parking spaces must be provided, plus one space for
each employee.
   45.   “Home occupation, farmstead” means an occupation customarily engaged
in on a farm, as a supplementary source of income, which:
      A.   Is clearly incidental and secondary to the operation of the farm,
and
      B.   Is owned by a member of the family residing in the farmstead
dwelling, and,
      C.   Does not employ more than two persons outside the resident family,
      D.   Is conducted within or adjacent to the farmstead dwelling or the
customary farm outbuildings, and
      E.   Has no exterior displays, or storage of materials visible from the
public road, or other exterior indication or variation from the agricultural
character of the farm, other than one sign, acknowledging the product or
service available, which sign shall not exceed 12 square feet in area, and
      F.   Produces no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat,
glare, or electrical interference detectable within the limits of the nearest
neighboring farmstead or dwelling.
   46.   “Hotel” means a building occupied as the more or less transient
abiding place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals and in which
sleeping rooms are usually occupied independently with meals served by an
adjacent or attached commercial facility and where required parking is provided
on adjacent lots.
   47.   “Industry, heavy” means any heavy manufacturing or industrial
processing, which by nature of the materials, equipment and process utilized
cannot eliminate entirely objectionable features and influences but which,
never the less, must be provided for somewhere in the urban areas.
   48.   “Industry, light” means any light manufacturing or industrial
processing, which by nature of the materials, equipment, and process utilized
are to a considerable measure clean, quiet, and free of any objectionable or
hazardous element. Light manufacturing includes the uses listed below and any
other uses that are recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission to be of
the same general character: bakeries, bottling, jewelry, musical instruments,
plastic products, and sporting goods; processing and assembly of glass
products, household appliances, electronic products, and parts for production
of finished equipment; printing and engraving plants; cleaning and dyeing
plants.
   49.   “Institution” means a building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or
a nonprofit establishment for public use.
   50.   “Junk” or “Salvage yard” means any area where junk, discarded, or
salvaged material or equipment are bought, sold, exchanged, baled or packed,
disassembled, kept stored, or handled, including house wrecking yards, auto
wrecking activities, used lumber yards and places or yards for storage of
salvaged building materials and structural steel materials and equipment; but
not including areas where such uses are conducted entirely within a completely
enclosed building and not including pawn shops and establishments for the sale,
purchase, or storage of used furniture and household equipment, used cars in
operable condition, or salvaged materials incidental and necessary to
manufacturing operations and not including contractors' storage yards. The
presence on any lot, parcel, or tract of land, of one or more vehicles which
for a period exceeding 30 days have not been capable of operating under their
own power, and from which parts have been removed for reuse, salvage, or sale,
shall constitute prima facie evidence of a junk yard.
   51.   “Junk yard” means any area where waste, discarded, or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, baled, or packed, disassembled, stored,
abandoned, or handled, including the dismantling or “wrecking” of automobiles
or other vehicles or machinery, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and
places or yards for storage of salvage, house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment; but not including areas where such uses are conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed building.
   52.   “Kennel” means an establishment where domesticated animals are boarded
for compensation or where such animals are bred or raised for commercial
purposes or sale.
   53.   “Loading space” means a space within the main building or on the same
lot providing for the standing, loading, or unloading of trucks, having minimum
dimension of 12x20 feet and vertical clearance of at least 14 feet.
   54.   “Lot” means for the purpose of this ordinance, a parcel of land of at
least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage,
and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein
required. Such lot shall have frontage on a dedicated or private street, and
may consist of:
      A.   A single lot of record or a portion of a lot of record.
      B.   A combination of complete lots of record, and/or portions of lots of
record.
      C.   A parcel of land described by meets and bounds, provided that in no
case of subdivision shall any residual lot or parcel be created which does not
meet the requirements of this ordinance.
   55.   “Lot area” means the area of a horizontal plane, bounded by the front,
side, and rear lot lines.
   56.   “Lot depth” means the distance from the front lot line to the rear lot
line. In the case of a lot of irregular shape, the depth at the mid-point shall
be considered the lot depth.
   57.   “Lot line, front” means in the case of an interior lot, abutting on
only one street, the front lot line is the street line of such street. In the
case of any other lot, it may be such street line as is elected by the owner to
be the front line for the purpose of this chapter.
   58.   “Lot line, rear” means that boundary line which is opposite and most
distant from the front lot line.
   59.   “Lot line, side” means any boundary line, not a front lot line, or a
rear lot line.
   60.   “Lot of record” means a lot which is a part of a subdivision, the plat
of which has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   61.   “Lot types” means various types of lots is as follows:
      A.   Corner lot. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets.
      B.   Interior lot. A lot other than a comer lot with only one frontage on
a street other than an alley.
      C.   Through lot. A lot that fronts upon two parallel streets or that
fronts upon two streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
      D.   Reversed frontage. A through lot that is not accessible from one of
the parallel or nonintersecting streets upon which it fronts.
   62.   “Lot width” means the distance between the side lot lines. In the case
of a lot of irregular shape, the width at the mid-point shall be considered the
lot width.
   63.   “Manufactured home” means a factory-built, single-family structure
which is manufactured or constructed under the authority of 42 U.S.C. Section
5403, the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act, is
transportable in one or more sections, is built on a permanent chassis, and is
to be used as a place for human habitation; but which is not constructed with a
permanent hitch or other device allowing transport of the unit other than for
the purpose of delivery to a permanent site, and which does not have wheels or
axles permanently attached to its body or frame. For the purposes of this
chapter, a manufactured home shall be considered a single family detached
dwelling. A manufactured home is the same as a mobile home except a
manufactured home must meet the above cited U.S. Code requirements. It also
must meet the State requirements including the nonpermanent hitch, wheels, and
axle as stated herein, and is also subject to additional local requirements
which are also generally more stringent than requirements for mobile homes.
   64.   “Mobile home” means a vehicle used, or so originally constructed as to
permit being used, as conveyance upon the public streets or highways and duly
licensed as such, and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof for human habitation, dwellings, or sleeping places for one or more
person, provided further that this definition shall refer to and include all
portable contrivances used or intended to be used generally for living and
sleeping quarters and which is capable of being moved by its own power, towed,
or transported by another vehicle. This definition shall also include and apply
to such vehicles or structures that are located on a permanent or temporary
foundation but shall not include mobile homes converted to real estate as
defined herein.
   65.   “Mobile home converted to real estate” means an unencumbered mobile
home which has been attached to a permanent foundation on real estate owned by
the mobile home owner, which has had the vehicular frame modified or destroyed,
rendering it impossible to reconvert to a mobile home and which has been
inspected by the assessor, the mobile home title, registration, and license
plates collected from the owner and the property entered on the tax rolls of
the county.
   66.   “Mobile home park” means any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon
which one or more occupied mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or
for revenue purposes and shall include any building, structure, vehicle, or
enclosure intended for use as part of the equipment of such mobile home park.
   67.   “Mobile home subdivision” means a subdivision created for the purpose
of and restricted to the sale or lease of individual lots for occupancy by
independent mobile homes or mobile homes converted to real estate and having
public streets, utilities, and other public facilities installations approved
by the Council in accordance with the subdivision regulation of the City.
   68.   “Modular home” means factory-built housing certified as meeting the
State Building Code as applicable to modular housing. Once certified by the
State, modular homes shall be subject to the same standards as site-built
homes.
   69.   “Motel” means a permanent building or group of buildings designed or
arranged primarily for temporary occupancy, so laid out as to provide off-
street space on the same lot for parking vehicles used by the traveling public.
Such building or group of buildings may include quarters of a more permanent
nature for the use of operating or attached commercial facility. Motel shall
also include the terms auto courts, tourist courts, motor lodges, motor inns,
motor hotels, and similar terms.
   70.   “Non-conforming structure” or “Building” means a structure or
building, the size, dimensions, or location of which was lawful prior to the
adoption, revision, or amendment to the zoning ordinance but that fails by
reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present
requirements of the zoning district.
   71.   “Non-conforming use” means any building or land lawfully occupied by a
use at the time of passage of this Zoning Code which does not conform with the
use regulations of the district within which it is located.
   72.   “Nursing home” means a home for the aged, chronically ill, or
incurable persons in which three or more persons not of the immediate family
are received, kept, and provided with food, or shelter and care, for
compensation, but not including hospitals, clinics, or similar institutions
devoted primarily to the diagnosis, treatment, or care of the sick or injured.
Assisted living and convalescent homes are considered nursing homes for the
purpose of this Zoning Code.
   73.   “Owner” means the person or persons who hold the fee simple title to
the property, and the person or person who have acquired any interest in the
property by contract of purchase or otherwise.
   74.   “Parking space, off-street” means a surfaced area, enclosed in the
main building or in any accessory building, or unenclosed area, having an area
of not less than 200 square feet, permanently reserved for the temporary
storage of automobile(s) and connected with a street or alley by a surfaced
driveway which affords satisfactory ingress and egress for automobiles.
   75.   “Permanent foundation” means a site-built or site-assembled system of
stabilizing devices when the running gear assembly is removed. The foundation
shall be to a depth of not less than 48 inches below grade and constructed of
appropriate load bearing materials, and used in combination with one of the
following:
      A.   A floating concrete slab, a minimum of six inches deep the entire
length and width of the structure with four #2 reinforcing bars the entire
length of the slab.
      B.   Grey beam construction (two concrete strips the entire length of the
structure, 40 inches wide, five feet apart, a minimum of six inches deep, with
two-#2 reinforcing bars).
      C.   Piers. With a minimum diameter of 16 inches; four feet to six feet
deep and placed eight feet on centers the entire length of the structure.
   76.   “Place” means any open unoccupied space or public or private
thoroughfare other than a street or alley permanently reserved as the principal
means of access to abutting property.
   77.   “Premises” means the land together with any buildings or structures
located thereon.
   78.   “Professional activities” means the use of offices and related spaces
for such professional services as are provided by doctors, dentists, lawyers,
architects, engineers, and realtors.
   79.   “Public uses” means public parks; schools; and administrative,
cultural, and service buildings, not including public land or buildings devoted
solely to the storage and maintenance of equipment and material.
   80.   “Recreational facilities” means country clubs, riding stables, golf
courses, and other private non-commercial recreation areas and facilities or
recreation centers including private community swimming pools.
   81.   “Recycling plant” means a fenced in enclosure or an enclosed building
within which the receipt, separation, storage, conversion, baling and/or
processing of paper, iron, metal, glass, newspaper, and other non-biodegradable
recyclable materials are collected for the purpose of reutilization of such
materials.
   82.   “Setback” See “Building line”
   83.   “Sign” means any advertisement, announcement, direction, or
communication produced in whole or in part by the construction, erection,
affixing, or placing of a structure on any land or on any other structure, or
produced by painting on or posting or placing any printed, lettered, pictured,
figured, or colored material on any building, structure, or surface. Signs
placed or erected by governmental agencies or non-profit civic associations for
a public purpose in the public interest shall not be included herein.
   84.   “Semi-public uses. Churches, Sunday Schools, parochial schools,
colleges, hospitals, and other institutions of an educational, religious,
charitable, or philanthropic nature.
   85.   “Special exception” means a special exception is a use that would not
be appropriate generally or without restriction throughout the zoning division
or district but which, if controlled as to number, area, location, or relation
to the neighborhood, would promote the public health, safety, morals, order,
comfort, convenience, appearance, prosperity, or general welfare. Such uses may
be permitted in such zoning division or district as special exceptions, if
specific provision for such special exceptions is made in this zoning
ordinance.
   86.   “Stable, private” means a building or structure used or intended to be
used for housing only of horses belonging to the owner of the property for non-
commercial purposes.
   87.   “Stable, public and riding academy” means a building or structure used
or intended to be used for the housing only of horses on a fee basis. Riding
instruction may be given in connection with a public stable or riding academy.
   88.   “Stable, riding club” means a building or structure used or intended
to be used for the housing only of horses by a group of persons for non-
commercial purposes.
   89.   “Story” means that portion of a building, other than a cellar,
included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next
above it or, if there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor
and the ceiling next above it.
   90.   “Story, half” means a partial story under a gable, hip, or gambrel
roof, the wall plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not
more than three feet above the floor of such story, except that any partial
story used for residence purpose, other than for a janitor or caretaker or
their family, or by a family occupying the floor immediately below it, shall be
deemed a full story.
   91.   “Street” means a public or private thoroughfare which affords the
principal means of access to abutting property.
   92.   “Street line” means the right-of-way of a street.
   93.   “Street width” means the width of the right-of-way, measured at right
angles to the center line of the street.
   94.   “Structure, building” means anything constructed, erected, or built,
the use of which requires more or less permanent location on the ground and
designed for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons,
animals, chattels, or property of any kind including, but without limiting, the
generality of the foregoing, installation such as signs, billboards, solar
panels, communication dishes, radio towers, antennas, and other facilities not
designed for storage or property or occupancy by persons.
   95.   “Subdivision” means the division of land into three or more lots, or
other division of land, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership or building development. The term relates to the process
of subdividing or to the land subdivided, or the resubdivision of land
previously divided or platted into lots or other division of land, or, if a new
street is involved, any division of land.
   96.   “Substantial damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure where by the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged
condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the assessed value of the
structure before the damage occurred.
   97.   “Substantial improvement” means a repair, reconstruction or
improvement of a structure, the costs of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of
the assessed value of the structure either (a) before the improvement is
started, or (b) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored before
the damage occurred. Assessed value shall be determined by the local assessor’s
office. For the purposes of this definition, “substantial improvement” is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include any alteration to comply with existing State or local health, sanitary,
building, or safety codes or regulations as well as structures listed in
national or State Registers of historic places.
   98.   “Temporary structure” means a structure without any foundation or
footings, and which is removed when the designated time period, activity, or
use for which the temporary structure was erected has ceased.
   99.   “Temporary use” means a use established for a fixed period of time
with the intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time period
which is not to exceed twelve months.
   100.   “Travel trailer” or “camping trailer” means a vehicle without motive
power used or so manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a
conveyance upon the public streets and highways and so designed to permit the
vehicle to be used as a place of human habitation by one or more persons. Said
vehicle may be up to eight feet in width and any length provided its gross
weight does not exceed 4,500 pounds, which shall be the manufacturer’s
shipping, or the actual weight provided its overall length does not exceed 28
feet. Such vehicle shall be customarily or ordinarily used for vacation or
recreation purposes; if used as place of human habitation for more than 90 days
in any 12-month period, it shall be classified as a mobile home, regardless of
the size and weight limitation provided herein. This definition shall also
include house cars and camp cars having motive power and designed for temporary
occupancy as herein defined.
   101.   “Trailer camp” or “tourist camp” means any area providing spaces for
two or more travel trailers, camping trailers, or tent sites for temporary
occupancy not to exceed 90 days, with necessary incidental services, sanitation
and recreation facilities to serve the traveling public.
   102.   “Use, permitted” means a public or private use which of itself
conforms with the purposes, objectives, requirements, regulations, and
performance standards of a particular district.
   103.   “Use, principal” means the main use of land or buildings as
distinguished from subordinate or accessory use. A “principal use” may be
either permitted or conditional.
   104.   “Variance” means a variance is a relaxation of the terms of the
Zoning Code where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and
where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the
actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the chapter would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship. As used in this chapter, a variance is
authorized only for height, area, and size of structure, or size of yards and
open spaces. Establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not
be allowed by variance, nor shall a variance be granted because of the presence
of non-conformities in the zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning
district.
   105.   “Yard” means an open space between a building and the adjoining lot
lines unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from 30 inches
above the ground upward. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the
width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard, or the depth of a rear yard,
the minimum horizontal distance between the lot lines and the main building or
any projection thereof shall be used.
   106.   “Yard, front” means a yard extending across the front of a lot and
being the minimum horizontal distance between the street or place line and the
main building.
   107.   “Yard, rear” means a yard extending across the rear of a lot and
being the required minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the rear of the main building.
   108.   “Yard, side” means a yard between the main building and the side line
of the lot and extending from the required front yard to the required rear
yard, and being the minimum horizontal distance between a side lot line and the
side of the main building.
   109.   “Zoning Administrator” means the administrative officer designated or
appointed by the Council to administer and enforce the regulations contained in
this Zoning Code.
165.02   ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
The City is hereby divided into districts designated as follows:
   1.   A-1 Limited Agriculture
   2.   R-1 Single-Family Residential
   3.   R-2 Mixed Residential
   4.   R-3 Mobile Home Park
   5.   C-1 Commercial Central Business District
   6.   C-2 Highway Commercial
   7.   I-1 Industrial
   8.   I-2 Heavy Industrial
165.03   ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
The Official Zoning Map, and the explanatory material thereon, is hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
165.04   IDENTIFICATION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor and
attested to by the City Administrator/Clerk under the following statement:
This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in the
Zoning Ordinance of Garnavillo, Iowa, adopted the ______ day of ____, _____
A.D.
The Official Zoning Map shall be on file in the office of the City
Administrator/Clerk and shall be the final authority as to the current zoning
status of land, buildings, and other structures in the City.
165.05   CHANGES IN OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
No changes in the Official Zoning Map shall be made except as may be required
by amendments to this chapter under Section
165.35 herein. If required, such changes shall be promptly made and the
ordinance number, nature of change, and date of change shall be noted on the
map, approving such change in the Official Zoning Map. Any unauthorized change
of any kind whatsoever in the Official Zoning Map by any person or persons
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances have been adopted amending the Official Zoning Map
described in Section
165.05 of this chapter and have not been included as a part of this Code of
Ordinances but have been specifically saved from repeal and are in full
force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED      ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
04-2012       May 12, 2012               
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
 
165.06   INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of district as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines.
   3.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following township lines or
section lines shall be construed as following township lines or section lines.
   4.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the tracks.
   5.   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines of streams or other
bodies of water shall be construed to follow such shore lines, and in the event
of change in the shore lines, shall be construed as moving with the actual
shore line: boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streams, rivers, or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such
centerlines, and in the event of change in the center line, shall be construed
as moving with the actual centerlines.
   6.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated
in Subsections 1 through 5 above shall be so construed. Distances not
specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by the
scale of the map.
   7.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map or in other circumstances
not covered by Subsections 1 through 6 above, the Board of Adjustment shall
interpret the district boundaries.
   8.   Where a district boundary divides a lot of record which was in single
ownership at the time of the effective date of this ordinance, the Board of
Adjustment may permit, as a special exception or variance, the extension of the
regulations for either portion of the lot not to exceed 50 feet beyond the
district boundary.
165.07   SCHEDULES OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
The following schedules of district regulations are hereby adopted and declared
to be a part of this ordinance:
   1.   A-1 Limited Agriculture
   2.   R-1 Single-family Residential
   3.   R-2 Mixed Residential
   4.   R-3 Mobile Home Park
   5.   C-1 Commercial Central Business District
   6.   C-2 Highway Commercial
   7.   I-1 Industrial
   8.   I-2 Heavy Industrial
A-1 LIMITED AGRICULTURE A-1
The A-1 Agricultural District includes areas appropriate for agricultural and
related uses, and is intended to reserve areas suitable for non-agricultural
use until the land is needed for development in accordance with the future
land use plan.
Permitted Principal Uses and Structures Minimum Required Off-Street Parking
A-1 LIMITED AGRICULTURE A-1
The A-1 Agricultural District includes areas appropriate for agricultural and related uses,
and is intended to reserve areas suitable for non-agricultural use until the land is needed
for development in accordance with the future land use plan.
                                                                                  Minimum
Permitted Principal Uses and Structures                                           Required
                                                                                  Off-Street
                                                                                  Parking
1.   Agricultural, horticulture, dairy farming, livestock farming, poultry
farming, livestock waste handling facilities, general farming, and other          None
agricultural activities, including a farmhouse and one manufactured/modular home
per farmstead
2.   Single-family dwelling                                                    2 spaces
                                                                                  per unit
                                                                                  5 spaces
                                                                                  per acre
3.   Parks, playgrounds, or play fields                                        developed
                                                                                  for active
                                                                                  usage
                                                                                  10 spaces
4.   Cemetery or mausoleum                                                     plus 1 per
                                                                                  acre
                                                                                  1 space
                                                                                  per
                                                                                  classroom
                                                                                  and office
5.   Elementary or secondary school, certified pre-schools                     plus 1
                                                                                  space for
                                                                                  every 6
                                                                                  seats in
                                                                                  the main
                                                                                  auditorium
                                                                                  1 space
                                                                                  for every
6.   Churches and temples                                                      4 seats in
                                                                                  the main
                                                                                  auditorium
                                                                                  3 spaces
                                                                                  per green
                                                                                  or 1 space
                                                                                  for every
7.   Golf courses and country clubs except miniature courses or driving ranges 100 sq.
operated for a profit                                                             ft. of
                                                                                  floor
                                                                                  area,
                                                                                  whichever
                                                                                  is greater
                                                                                  1 space
                                                                                  for every
8.   Community meeting or recreation building                                  50 square
                                                                                  feet of
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  2 spaces
                                                                                  per unit,
9.   Bed and Breakfast operations                                              plus 1
                                                                                  space for
                                                                                  every bed
                                                                                  2 spaces
10.   Stables, kennels, veterinary businesses, located at least 50 feet from alplus 1
boundary lines of the property on which it is located                             space for
                                                                                  each
                                                                                  employee
                                                                                  2 spaces
                                                                                  plus 1
11.   Hiking and horseback riding trails                                       space for
                                                                                  each
                                                                                  employee
12.   Structures on wetlands for the conservation of soil                      2 spaces
13.   Any use erected or maintained by a public agency                         2 spaces
14.   Private airport landing strips and associated facilities                 2 spaces
                                                                                  2 spaces
15.   Seed and feed dealership provided, however, there is no evidence of      plus 1
showroom or other commercial activities                                           space for
                                                                                  each
                                                                                  employee
16.   Home occupations, home industries                                        2 spaces
                                                                                  2 spaces
                                                                                  plus 1
17.   Lakes, ponds, and outdoor recreation facilities                          space for
                                                                                  each
                                                                                  employee
18.   Manufactured home on a permanent foundation                              2 spaces
PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
1.   Farm buildings incidental to agricultural uses.
2.   Private garages, swimming pools, and tennis courts.
3.   Private green houses, not operated for commercial purposes.
4.   Uses and structures clearly incidental to the permitted principal uses or structures of
this district, not involving the conduct of business on the premises, except home
occupations and farmstead home occupations located on the same lot or a contiguous lot under
the same ownership.
5.   Energy collection structures.
6.   Roadside stands for the sale of produce raised on the premises.
7.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work, provided that such
buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the construction work.
 
 
A-1 LIMITED AGRICULTURE A-1
Special Exception Uses and Structures
Subject to Section
165.32(2) and the other requirements contained therein, the Board of Adjustment
may permit the following:
1.   Railroads and public utilities but not including equipment storage or
maintenance yards and building or general administrative and sales offices,
provided that any substation, or building shall meet the front and rear yard
requirements for dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less than 25
feet, and that two parking spaces per substation or one per employee at the
site be provided.
2.   Communications station and tower provided that they shall not be closer to
a dwelling or place of public assembly than a distance equal to one-half their
height, that the height and location shall not interfere with the operation of
any airport or landing strip, and that one parking space per employee and one
space for each vehicle used by the facility be provided.
3.   Radio towers and antennas which exceed the general height limitation if it
is determined that the additional height is necessary to reasonably accommodate
amateur communications and will not be detrimental to public health, safety, or
welfare.
Minimum Lot Area and Width   Minimum Required Front, Side, and   Maximum Height
                             Rear Yards
Area:    20,000 sq. ft.
Width:    125 feet        Dwellings and other non-
The lot area shall be        institutional uses:
increased by such amount as  Front:   35 ft.
determined necessary by the  Rear:   30 ft.
County Board of Health to    Side:   10 ft.                   35 ft.
provide an adequate          Side street corner lot:   30 ft. or
absorption field for a       Schools, Churches, or other public  2 ½ stories
septic tank installation.    or institutional buildings:          
Where a lot is served by a   Front:    35 ft.
public or community water    Rear:    40 ft.
system, the minimum lot area Side:   30 ft.
may be reduced to 15,000 sq. Side street corner lot:   35 ft.
ft. and the width to 100 ft.
 
 
A-1 LIMITED AGRICULTURE A-1
Permitted Signs
1.   Nameplates attached flat against the wall of the main building not to exceed
three square feet in area.
2.   Church or public bulletin boards not to exceed 32 square feet in area.
3.   Temporary signs advertising the lease or sale of the premises not to exceed
six square feet in area.
4.   Billboards or advertising signs provided:
A.   They are not within 300 feet of an intersection, highway structure,
residence, or another billboard.
B.   They are not within 100 feet of a park, school, cemetery, public or semi-
public building.
C.   They are not within 75 feet of the centerline of a City or County road, or
100 feet of a State or federal highway. Signs in proximity to State or federal
highways must comply with any regulations imposed by these agencies.
5.   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition, and in the
event their use shall cease, the area shall be restored to a condition free from
refuse and rubbish.
6.   Any sign not conforming to the provisions of this ordinance shall be made to
conform or shall be removed within three years after the adoption of this
ordinance.
7.   Signs which are located in such a manner as not to obscure or otherwise
interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, signal, or device or
which do not obstruct, or interfere with the driver’s view of approaching,
merging, or intersecting traffic as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
Special Requirements
1.   No Construction Compliance Certificate shall be issued for a dwelling unit in
the A-1 Agricultural District for any parcel of land that is designated for
commercial or industrial uses on the Future Land Use Plan of the City.
 
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL R-1
Statement of Intent
The R-1 Single-Family Residential District is intended to include areas of lower
density residential development where utilities are presently available, and
areas suitable for future residential development where utility service can be
reasonably extended contiguous to existing development within the corporate
limits.
Permitted Principal Uses and Structures               Minimum Required Off-Street
                                                      Parking
1.   Single-family dwellings                       2 spaces per unit
2.   Parks, playgrounds, or play fields            5 spaces for each acre
                                                      developed for active usage
3.   Manufactured and modular homes on a permanent 2 spaces per unit
foundation
Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures
1.   Private garage.
2.   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
3.   Private greenhouses not operated for commercial purposes.
4.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work, provided
that such buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the construction
work.
5.   Solar collectors attached to roof.
6.   Satellite dishes.
7.   Structures attached to the principal building shall be considered part of
the principal building and shall conform to the same front, side, and rear
setback regulations.
 
 
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL R-1
Special Exception Uses and Structures
Subject to Section 165.32(2) and the other requirements contained herein, the
Board of Adjustment may permit the following:
1.   Public utilities, but not including equipment storage or maintenance
yards and buildings or general administrative and sales offices, provided that
any substation or building shall meet the front and rear yard requirements for
dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less than 25 feet, and that two
parking spaces per substation or one per employee at the site be provided.
2.   Condominiums, townhouses, or row houses.
3.   Towers and antennas.
4.   Other special exception uses as recommended by the Commission and
approved by the Board of Adjustment.
5.   Home occupations or home industries
Minimum Lot Area                 Minimum Required Front, Side,  Maximum Height
                                 and Rear Yards
Dwellings:
   Area:   9,600 sq. ft.   All Structures:
All new residential lots shall      Front:   25 feet
be served by a public sewer and     Rear:   25 ft.        2 ½ stories.
water system when available.        Side   10 ft.         or
Condominiums, Townhouses, or Row    Side Street,             35 ft.
Houses: Area: 12,000 square feet    corner lot.   25 feet
for 2 units plus 1,200 square
feet for each additional unit
 
 
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL R-1
Permitted Signs
1.   Nameplates attached flat against the wall of the main building not to
exceed three sq. ft.
2.   Temporary signs advertising the lease or sale of the premises not to exceed
six sq. ft. in area.
3.   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition and in
the event their use shall cease, they shall promptly be removed.
4.   Signs shall be located in such a manner as not to obscure or otherwise
interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, signal or device
and shall not obstruct or interfere with the driver’s view of approaching or
intersecting traffic as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
Special Requirements
1.   All new structures constructed or placed in R-1 Districts shall have a
minimum width of 24 feet and a minimum length of 24 feet as measured at the
narrowest points, excluding porches, garages, and accessory buildings.
 
R-2 MIXED RESIDENTIAL R-2
Statement of Intent
The R-2 Mixed Residential District is intended to accommodate single, two-family,
and multi-family residential development at a greater density than the R-
1 District. It is generally limited to already developed areas but may be
expanded to include appropriate areas for new development of affordable housing
or multi-family housing.
Permitted Principal Uses and Structures            Minimum Required Off-Street
                                                   Parking
1.   Single-family dwellings                    2 spaces per unit
2.   Two-family dwellings                       2 spaces per unit
3.   Multiple-family dwelling                   2 spaces per unit
4.   Condominiums                               2 spaces per unit
5.   Parks, playgrounds or play fields          5 spaces for each acre
                                                   developed for active usage
6.   Community meeting or recreation building   1 space for every 50 sq. ft.
                                                   of floor area
                                                   1 space per classroom and
7.   Elementary or secondary school or college  office plus 1 space for every
                                                   6 seats in the main auditorium
                                                   or stadium
8.   Churches and temples                       1 space for every 4 seats in
                                                   the main auditorium
9.   Day Nurseries/Centers, day-care centers    2 spaces plus 1 space for each
                                                   employee
10.   Modular/manufactured homes on a permanent 2 spaces per unit
foundation
11.   Home occupations/home industries          2 spaces plus 1 for each
                                                   employee
12.   Bed and Breakfast operations              1 space for every bed plus 2
                                                   spaces per unit
13.   Rooming or boarding houses                1 space for every 2 beds
14.   Group housing, public housing developments1 space per unit
15.   Cemetery                                  10 spaces plus 1 space per
                                                   acre
16.   Nursing Home/Care facility/Assisted Living1 space for every employee,
                                                   plus 6 additional spaces
17.   Group home                                1 space for every employee,
                                                   plus 2 additional spaces
18.   Emergency services buildings              1 space for every 1,000 sq.
                                                   ft. of floor area
19.   Medical, dental, eye, and chiropractic    1 space for every 1,000 sq.
offices                                            ft. of office floor area
Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures
1.   Private garages.
2.   Private swimming pools and tennis courts.
3.   Private greenhouses not operated for commercial purposes.
4.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses or structures of this district, not involving the conduct of
business on the premises, except home occupations, not employing any person
outside the immediate family and located on the same lot or a contiguous lot
under the same ownership.
5.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work, provided
that such buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the construction
work.
6.   Solar collectors attached to the roof.
7.   Satellite dishes.
8.   Structures attached to the principal building shall be considered part of
the principal building and shall conform to the same front, side, and rear
setback regulations.
 
 
R-2 MIXED RESIDENTIAL R-2
Special Exception Uses and Structures
Subject to Section 165.32(2) and the other requirements contained herein, the
Board of Adjustment may permit the following:
1.   Swimming pools, golf courses and country clubs, except miniature courses
or driving ranges operated for a profit.
2.   Railroads and public utilities, but not including equipment storage or
maintenance yards and buildings or general administrative and sales offices,
provided that any substation or building shall meet the front and rear yard
requirements for dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less than 25
feet, and that two parking spaces per substation or one per employee at the
site be provided.
3.   Radio towers and antennas which exceed the general height limitations if
it is determined that the additional height is necessary to reasonably
accommodate amateur communications and will not be detrimental to public
health, safety, or welfare.
4.   Business operated.by the person or persons residing on the same property.
5.   Other special exception uses as recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and approved by the Board of Adjustment.
Minimum Lot Area and Width Minimum Required Front,  Maximum Height
                           Side, and Rear Yards
Area:6,000 sq. ft.
Width: 66 ft.
Where a lot is not served
by a public or community
water and/or sanitary      Dwellings and other non-
sewer system, the minimum  institutional uses:
lot area shall be not less Front:   20 feet      2 ½ stories.
than 20,000 sq. ft. and    Rear:   10 feet       or
shall be increased by such Side:   5 feet        35 ft.
amount as determined or    Side Street,             Accessory building shall
necessary by the County    Corner Lot:   20 feet not exceed 18 ft. in height
Board of Health to provide See special requirements
an adequate absorption     below.
field for septic tank use.
The width of such lot
shall be not less than 125
feet.
Special Requirements
1.   Front setback may be adjusted to the lesser of 20 ft. or the distance in
line with the forward most point of residential structures on neighboring
properties to conform with the setback of existing structures.
2.   Rear setback may be adjusted to the lesser of 10 ft. or in line with the
footprint of existing structure.
3.   Side setback may be adjusted to the lesser of five feet or in line with
the footprint of existing structure.
4.   Additions cannot violate more than one setback requirement. i.e.: may
enlarge or expand in line with the existing structure, but in doing so, may not
violate any other setback requirement that had not been previously affected.
5.   All new structures constructed or placed in R-2 Districts shall have a
minimum width of 24 feet and a minimum length of 24 feet as measured at the
structures narrowest point, excluding porches, garages, and accessory
buildings.
 
 
R-2 MIXED RESIDENTIAL R-2
Permitted Signs
1.   Nameplates attached flat against the wall of the main building not to exceed
three square feet in area.
2.   Identification signs and home occupations signs not to exceed six square feet
in area.
3.   Church or public signs or bulletin boards not to exceed 32 square feet in
area.
4.   Temporary signs advertising the lease or sale of the premises not to exceed
six sq. ft. in area.
5.   Illumination of all signs shall be lighted only with indirect, non-
intermittent lighting.
6.   Signs and bulletin boards shall be at least 20 ft. from the front lot line or
not more than five ft. in front of the main building.
7.   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition and in the
event their use shall cease, they shall be promptly removed.
8.   Any sign not conforming to the provisions of this ordinance shall be made to
conform or be removed within three years after the adoption of this ordinance.
9.   Signs that are located in such a manner as not to obscure or otherwise
interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, signal, or device or
that does not obstruct, or interfere with the driver’s view of approaching,
merging, or intersecting traffic as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
10.   Any permanent sign larger than six square feet shall require a sign permit.
 
R-3 MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT R-3
Statement of Intent
Mobile homes used for dwelling purposes shall be placed only in mobile home
parks, except as determined herein. A mobile home park may be established in only
R-3 Districts.
                                                                  Minimum
Permitted Principal Uses and Structures                           Required Off-
                                                                  Street Parking
1.   Single-family units                                       2 spaces per
                                                                  unit
2.   Two-family units                                          2 spaces per
                                                                  unit
                                                                  5 spaces for
3.   Parks and recreation area not operated for profit         each acre
                                                                  developed for
                                                                  active usage
4.   Community meeting or recreation building not operated for 1 space for
profit                                                            every 50 ft. of
                                                                  floor area
                                                                  3 spaces plus 1
5.   Private schools, nursery schools, and child nurseries     space for each
                                                                  employee
                                                                  1 space per 300
6.   Laundromat                                                sq. ft. of
                                                                  floor area
7.   Essential services
8.   Mobile home park as licensed by the State                 See 1 and 2
                                                                  above
Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures
1.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses or structures of this district, not involving the conduct of
business on the premises, except home occupations located on the same lot or
contiguous lot under the same ownership.
2.   Private garages, swimming pools, tennis courts, gardens, and greenhouses not
operated for commercial purposes.
3.   Temporary buildings and equipment used in conjunction with construction
work, provided that such buildings and equipment are removed promptly upon
completion of the construction work.
4.   Solar collectors located on the roof.
5.   Satellite dishes.
6.   A detached building shall be located a minimum of five feet from the
principal structure, and 10 feet from the front property line.
7.   Structures attached to the principal building shall be considered part of
the principal building and shall conform to the same front, side, and rear
setback yard regulations.
 
 
R-3 MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT R-3
Special Exception Uses and Structures
Subject to Section 165.32(2) and other requirements contained herein, the
Board of Adjustment may permit the following:
1.   Railroads and public utilities, but not including equipment storage or
maintenance yards or general administrative and sales offices, provided that
any substation or building shall meet the front and rear yard requirements
for dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less than 25 feet, and
that two parking spaces per substation or one parking space per employee at
the site be provided.
Minimum Lot Area and Width      Minimum Required Front, Side, Maximum Height
                                and Rear Yards
Mobile Home
Area:   6,000 sq. ft
Width:   66 ft.
Single-Family Unit
Area   12,000 sq. ft.
Width:   132 ft.             Front:   10 feet           2 stories
Two-Family Unit                 Rear:   5 feet             or
Area:   12,000 sq. ft.       Side:   5 feet             20 ft.
Width:   132 ft.
***************************
No manufactured, modular, or
mobile home park may be
established on less than 12,000
sq. ft.
 
 
R-3 MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT R-3
Permitted Signs
1.   Nameplates attached flat against the wall of the main building not to exceed
three sq. ft. in area.
2.   Identification signs and home occupation signs not to exceed six square feet
in area.
3.   Church or public bulletin boards not to exceed 12 square feet in area.
4.   Temporary signs advertising the lease or sale of the premises not to exceed
six sq. ft. in area.
5.   Illumination of all signs shall be indirect, non-intermittent lighting.
6.   Signs and bulletin boards shall be at least 20 feet from the front line or
not more than five feet in front of the main building.
7.   All signs and billboards shall be maintained in a neat and presentable
condition and in the event their use shall cease, they shall promptly be removed.
8.   Any sign not conforming to the provisions of this ordinance shall be made to
conform or be removed within three years after the adoption of this ordinance.
9.   Signs which are located in such a manner as not to obscure or otherwise
interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, signal, or device or
which does not obstruct, or interfere with the driver’s view of approaching,
merging, or intersecting traffic as determined by the Administrative Officer.
10.   Any permanent sign larger than six square feet shall require a sign permit.
Special Requirements
1.   The R-3 District shall observe the fencing and shrubbery requirement as
prescribed in Section
165.08(9).
2.   A mobile home park abutting on a perimeter public right-of-way shall be
considered a perimeter yard and shall be a minimum of 25 feet in depth. All other
perimeter yards shall have a minimum depth of 20 feet when adjacent to any other
zone district other than an R-3 District, and 15 feet when adjacent to another R-
3 District.
3.   When the boundary of a mobile home park directly abuts another use district,
the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend, and the Council may require, a
visual barrier to be planted or constructed in the required perimeter.
 
C-1 COMMERCIAL CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT C-1
Statement of Intent
The C-1 Central Business District is intended to accommodate general retail and
professional office uses and promote the efficient and compact development of the Central
Business District, the area to which the use of this district is limited.
                                                                                  Minimum
Permitted Principal Uses and Structures                                           Off-
                                                                                  Street
                                                                                  Parking
1.   Automotive sales, service, and repair
2.   Farm implement sales, service, and repair
3.   Dry cleaners or laundry
4.   Liquor store
5.   Clubs and lodges
6.   Retail businesses
7.   Real estate, insurance, and financial institutions
8.   Personal service and repair shops
9.   Business and professional offices, banks and drive-up teller bank windows,No off-
and studios                                                                       street
10.   Medical, dental, chiropractic clinics, and veterinary offices            parking
11.   Restaurants, night clubs, cafe, or tavern                                required
12.   Public buildings and utilities, but not including storage or maintenance in this
13.   Public garages, storage garages and parking lots                         district
14.   Beauty and barber shops                                                  except
15.   Printing, publishing, and engraving                                      where
16.   Dance or music schools                                                   indicated
17.   Fitness and self-defense schools
18.   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning shops
19.   Wholesale display and salesroom
20.   Commercial amusements
21.   Lumber yard
22.   Social activities
23.   Public uses
24.   Essential Services
25.   Dwelling units above a store or shop                                     1 space
                                                                                  per unit
26.   Motels and hotels                                                        1 space
                                                                                  per unit
Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures
1.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted principal uses
or structures of this district.
2.   Storage warehouses used in conjunction with the permitted principal uses or structures
of this district.
3.   Temporary buildings and equipment used in conjunction with construction work, provided
that such buildings and equipment are removed promptly upon completion of the construction
work.
4.   Structures attached to the principal building shall be considered part of the
principal building and shall conform to the same front, side, and rear setback yard
regulations.
 
 
C-1 COMMERCIAL CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT C-1
Special Exception Uses and Structures
The Board of Adjustment may authorize the following special exceptions:
1.   Multi-family dwellings/apartments.
2.   Transport terminals.
3.   Entertainment facilities.
4.   Height limitations greater than 45 ft.
5.   Towers and antennas.
Minimum Lot Area and Width                                                     Minimum Required Front, Rear, and Side Yards                                        Maximum
                                                                                                                                                                   Height
Commercial Activities                                                          Front:    None                                                                   45 ft.
None                                                                           Side:   Where a side yard is adjacent to an “R” district, the adjoining yard except as
Multi-family dwelling                                                          be not less than five ft.                                                           permitted
Area   7,000 sq. ft. for 3 units plus 700 sq. ft. for each additional unit. Street Side, Corner lot:...... Same as side yard above.                             by
Width   None                                                                Rear:   10 feet                                                                  special
                                                                                                                                                                   exception
 
 
C-1 COMMERCIAL CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT C-1
Permitted Signs
1.   Temporary signs (not more than six months) advertising the sale or lease of
the premises, not to exceed 12 sq. ft. in area.
2.   Advertising signs, trade, business, or industry identification signs for the
business located on the site provided that the following requirements are met:
A.   One free standing and/or wall sign per business not to exceed 20 feet in
height and 50 sq. ft. per face.
B.   Signs attached to a building shall not project above the top or ends of the
building or more than four feet from the wall of the building.
C.   No projecting or wall mounted sign shall exceed 50 square feet in area or
more than one square foot per foot of building frontage, whichever is smaller.
D.   No projecting wall sign shall be attached to a wall of a building at a height
less than 10 feet above the sidewalk or ground.
E.   Illumination of signs and bulletin boards shall be indirect, non-intermittent
lighting, provided that time, temperature, weather information signs, official
warning, and regulatory signs shall be exempt from this limitation.
F.   They are not within 75 feet of the centerline of a City or County road, or
100 feet of a State or federal highway. Signs in proximity to state or federal
highways must comply with any regulations imposed by these agencies.
3.   No sign shall be located in, overhang, or project into a required yard.
4.   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition and in the
event their use shall cease, they shall be promptly removed.
5.   On a corner lot, nothing shall be erected or placed in an area bounded by the
street right-of-way lines and a straight line joining points on said right-of-way
lines 30 feet from the point of intersection of said right-of-way lines.
Special Requirements
None
 
C-2 Highway Commercial C-2
Statement of Intent
The C-2 Highway Commercial District is intended to accommodate uses which ordinarily serve
the traveling public and commercial uses which generally require substantial land area and
access to a major traffic artery.
                                                                                 Minimum
Permitted Principal Uses and Structures                                          Off-Street
                                                                                 Parking
                                                                                 1 space/300
                                                                                 square feet
1.   Automotive display, sales, service and repair, detailing, body shops.    of sales,
                                                                                 service, or
                                                                                 office
                                                                                 floor area.
                                                                                 1 space/300
                                                                                 square feet
2.   Farm implement display, sales, service, and repair.                      of sales,
                                                                                 service, or
                                                                                 office
                                                                                 floor area.
                                                                                 1 space/300
                                                                                 square feet
3.   Plant nursery and garden supplies sales.                                 of sales,
                                                                                 service, or
                                                                                 office
                                                                                 floor area.
                                                                                 1 space/300
                                                                                 square feet
4.   Lumberyard or building materials sales.                                  of sales,
                                                                                 service, or
                                                                                 office
                                                                                 floor area.
                                                                                 1 space/100
5.   Restaurant, night club, cafe, tavern, liquor store.                      square feet
                                                                                 of floor
                                                                                 area.
                                                                                 1 space/100
6.   Dance hall and skating rink.                                             square feet
                                                                                 of floor
                                                                                 area.
                                                                                 5 spaces/
7.   Drive-in eating and drinking establishment.                              100 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 floor area.
                                                                                 5 spaces/
8.   Bowling alley.                                                           lane or
                                                                                 alley.
                                                                                 4 spaces/
9.   Drive-in bank.                                                           teller
                                                                                 window.
                                                                                 1 space/
10.   Motel, hotel, tourist campground.                                       unit or
                                                                                 campsite.
11.   Dwelling unit above a store or shop.                                    1 space/
                                                                                 unit.
                                                                                 6 spaces
                                                                                 plus 1 off-
                                                                                 street
12.   Bus terminal.                                                           loading
                                                                                 space for
                                                                                 each bus
                                                                                 serving the
                                                                                 terminal.
                                                                                 1 space for
                                                                                 every 4
13.   Funeral parlor.                                                         seats in
                                                                                 main
                                                                                 auditorium.
                                                                                 1 space/
                                                                                 employee
14.   Public utilities, but not including storage or maintenance yards and    plus 1
buildings.                                                                       space/
                                                                                 vehicle
                                                                                 used by the
                                                                                 facility.
                                                                                 1 space/
                                                                                 employee
                                                                                 plus 1
15.   Monument marker display and sales.                                      space/
                                                                                 vehicle
                                                                                 used by the
                                                                                 facility.
                                                                                 1 space/300
                                                                                 square feet
16.   Boats, motors, travel trailers and mobile home display, sales, service, of sales,
and repair.                                                                      service, or
                                                                                 office
                                                                                 floor area.
                                                                                 1 space/
17.   Rental storage facilities.                                              storage
                                                                                 unit.
                                                                                 1 space/
18.   Retail businesses.                                                      300 feet of
                                                                                 floor area.
                                                                                 3 spaces/
19.   Golf driving range, miniature golf.                                     tee plus 1
                                                                                 space/
                                                                                 employee
                                                                                 1 space for
20.   Radio or television broadcasting station.                               each
                                                                                 employee.
                                                                                 1 space/
21.   Personal service and repair shops.                                      300 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 floor area.
                                                                                 1 space/
22.   Business and professional offices and studios.                          300 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 floor area.
                                                                                 1 space/
23.   Research and testing facilities.                                        300 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 floor area.
                                                                                 1 space/
24.   Animal hospitals or clinics.                                            300 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 floor area.
                                                                                 1 space/
25.   General administrative offices.                                         300 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 floor area.
                                                                                 5 spaces
                                                                                 for each
26.   Public and semi-public uses.                                            acre
                                                                                 developed
                                                                                 for active
                                                                                 use.
27.   Essential services.
 
 
C-2 Highway Commercial C-2
Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures
1.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted
principal uses or structures of the district.
2.   Dwelling unit in a commercial structure for the owner, operator, or
caretaker of the business.
3.   Storage warehouses used in conjunction with the permitted principal uses or
structures of this district.
4.   Temporary buildings and equipment used in conjunction with construction
work, provided that such buildings and equipment are removed promptly upon
completion of the construction work.
5.   Structures attached to the principal building shall be considered part of
the principal building and shall conform to the same front, side, and rear set-
back yard regulations.
Special Exception uses and Structures
1.   The Board of Adjustment may authorize the following special exception within
the C-2 District.
A.   Wholesale business
B.   Other special exception uses as recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and approved by the Board of Adjustment.
 
 
C-2 Highway Commercial C-2
Minimum Lot Area and Minimum Yard Requirements Maximum Height
Width
Commercial Activity  Front:   15 feet       45 feet
None                 Side:   15 feet        Except as permitted by
                     Rear:   15 feet        special exceptions
Permitted Signs
1.   Temporary signs (not more than six months) advertising the sale or
lease of the premises, not to exceed 32 square feet in area.
2.   Trade, business, or industry identification signs for the business
located on the site provided that:
A.   Signs shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
B.   On a corner lot, nothing shall be erected, or placed in an area
bounded by the street right-of-way lines and a straight-line joining
points on said right-of-way lines 30 feet from the point of intersection
of said right-of-way lines.
C.   No sign shall exceed 100 square feet in area or cover more than 20
percent of the building face on which it is located.
D.   Signs attached to a building shall not project above the top or ends
of the building or more than four feet from the wall of the building.
E.   No projecting wall sign shall be attached to a wall of a building at
a height less than 10 feet above the sidewalk or ground.
F.   They are not within 75 feet of the centerline of a City or County
road, or 100 feet of a State or federal highway. Signs in proximity to
State or federal highways must comply with any regulations imposed by
these agencies.
3.   No use shall have more than one of each type of sign permitted for
that use, although each sign may be double faced or back-to-back sign.
4.   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition and
in the event their use shall cease, they shall be promptly removed.
5.   Illumination of signs and bulletin boards shall be indirect, non-
intermittent lighting, provided that time, temperature, weather
informational signs, official warning, and regulatory signs shall be
exempt from this limitation.
Special Requirements
1.   Overhead or area light fixtures shall be located and focused so as to
avoid casting direct light upon any adjacent residential property.
2.   All unsurfaced yard areas shall be covered with a suitable, well
maintained, perennial ground cover or landscape plantings.
 
I-1 INDUSTRIAL I-1
Statement of Intent
The I-1 Light Industrial District is designed to accommodate various industrial and
warehousing uses and through the use of appropriate standards, encourage the development
of an area that is aesthetically pleasing with minimal adverse effects on adjoining
properties.
                                                                               Minimum
Permitted Principal Uses and Structures                                        Off-
                                                                               Street
                                                                               Parking
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for each
                                                                               employee
                                                                               plus 1
1.   Manufacturing and processing uses that are contained within a building space for
and create no offensive noise, dust, odor, or vibration.                       every
                                                                               vehicle
                                                                               used by
                                                                               the
                                                                               industry.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for each
                                                                               employee
                                                                               plus 1
2.   Wholesaling and warehousing uses.                                      space for
                                                                               every
                                                                               vehicle
                                                                               used by
                                                                               the
                                                                               industry.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for each
                                                                               employee
                                                                               plus 1
3.   Food processing.                                                       space for
                                                                               every
                                                                               vehicle
                                                                               used by
                                                                               the
                                                                               industry.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for each
                                                                               employee
                                                                               plus 1
4.   Contractor's shop and storage yard.                                    space for
                                                                               every
                                                                               vehicle
                                                                               used by
                                                                               the
                                                                               industry.
                                                                               1 space
5.   General administrative offices.                                        for each
                                                                               employee.
                                                                               1 space
6.   Rental storage facilities.                                             for each
                                                                               rental
                                                                               unit.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for every
                                                                               employee
                                                                               plus one
7.   Ready-Mix plants.                                                      for each
                                                                               vehicle
                                                                               used by
                                                                               the
                                                                               industry.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for every
                                                                               employee
                                                                               plus one
8.   Sale or storage of fuels and chemicals.                                for each
                                                                               vehicle
                                                                               used by
                                                                               the
                                                                               industry.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for every
                                                                               employee
                                                                               plus one
9.   Grain storage bins.                                                    for each
                                                                               vehicle
                                                                               used by
                                                                               the
                                                                               industry.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for every
                                                                               employee
                                                                               plus one
10.   Grain elevator and feed mill.                                         for each
                                                                               vehicle
                                                                               used by
                                                                               the
                                                                               industry.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for every
                                                                               employee
                                                                               plus one
11.   Research and testing facilities.                                      for each
                                                                               vehicle
                                                                               used by
                                                                               the
                                                                               industry.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for every
                                                                               employee
                                                                               plus one
12.   Public utilities including storage buildings and yards.               for each
                                                                               vehicle
                                                                               used by
                                                                               the
                                                                               industry.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for every
                                                                               employee
                                                                               plus one
13.   Truck and freight terminal.                                           for each
                                                                               vehicle
                                                                               used by
                                                                               the
                                                                               industry.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for every
                                                                               employee
                                                                               plus one
14.   Building fabrication, including mobile homes, display, and sales.     for each
                                                                               vehicle
                                                                               used by
                                                                               the
                                                                               industry.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for every
                                                                               400
15.   Welding, machine, and repair shops, tool, die gauge shops.            square
                                                                               feet of
                                                                               floor
                                                                               area.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for every
                                                                               400
16.   Animal hospitals and kennels.                                         square
                                                                               feet of
                                                                               floor
                                                                               area.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for every
                                                                               400
17.   Plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and sheet metal shops.           square
                                                                               feet of
                                                                               floor
                                                                               area.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for every
                                                                               400
18.   Automobile paint and body shops.                                      square
                                                                               feet of
                                                                               floor
                                                                               area.
                                                                               1 space
                                                                               for every
                                                                               400
19.   Automobile and farm implement display, sales, service, and repair.    square
                                                                               feet of
                                                                               floor
                                                                               area.
                                                                               5 spaces
                                                                               for each
                                                                               acre
20.   Public uses.                                                          developed
                                                                               for
                                                                               active
                                                                               use.
21.   Essential services.
Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures
1.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted principal
uses or structures of this district.
2.   Temporary building used in conjunction with construction work provided that such
buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the construction work.
 
I-1 INDUSTRIAL I-1
Special Exception Uses and Structures
The Board of Adjustment may authorize the following special exceptions within the I-1 Industrial District:
1.   Height limitation greater than 45 feet.
Minimum Lot Area and   Minimum Yard Requirements                                                       Maximum
Width                                                                                                  Height
                       Front:   25 feet                                                             45 feet
Area:    20,000 sq. Side:   15 feet                                                              Except as
ft.                    Rear:   15 feet                                                              permitted
Width:    100 ft    Where adjacent to any residence or “R” district the adjoining yard or yards by special
                       shall be not less than 25 ft.                                                   exceptions
Permitted Signs
1.   Temporary signs (not more than six months) advertising the sale or lease of the premises, not to exceed 32
square feet in area.
2.   Trade, business, or industry identification signs for the business located on the site provided that:
A.   Signs shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
B.   No sign shall exceed 100 square feet in area or cover more than 20 percent of the building on which it is
located.
C.   Permitted signs shall be located according to Iowa Department of Transportation sign regulations.
3.   No use shall have more than one of each type of sign permitted for that use, although each sign may be
double-faced or back-to-back sign.
4.   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition and in the event their use shall cease,
they shall be promptly removed.
5.   Illumination of signs and bulletin boards shall be indirect, non-intermittent lighting.
Special Requirements
1.   Exterior storage other than the display of products for retail sale shall be enclosed by a fence or suitable
landscape planting when the I-1 District property is adjacent to any residential district. The design or type of
screen shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission prior to its construction. The fence or planting
will be required to screen the stored materials from the view of public streets or residential areas.
2.   No raw material, finished product or waste product which may cause dust or odor which would adversely affect
adjoining properties shall be stored outside a building nor shall any junk, debris or waste material be permitted
to accumulate on the site.
3.   All unsurfaced yard areas shall be covered with a suitable, well maintained, perennial ground cover or
landscape plantings.
 
I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL I-2
Statement of Intent
The 1-2 Heavy Industrial District is designed to accommodate various heavy
manufacturing and industrial uses and other uses not otherwise provided for in the
districts established by this ordinance.
                                                                              Minimum
Permitted Principal Uses and Structures                                       Off-
                                                                              Street
                                                                              Parking
                                                                              1 space
                                                                              per
                                                                              employee
                                                                              on duty
                                                                              plus 1
1.   Any industrial, commercial, or related use as approved by the Council space for
after prior recommendation by the Board of Adjustment, except the following   each
uses which shall be prohibited.                                               vehicle
A.   Disposal, reduction, or dumping of offal or dead animals.             used by
B.   Fertilizer manufacturing                                              the
C.   Manufacture of explosives.                                            industry.
D.   Oil refinery                                                          All uses
E.   Production of stone, clay, glass materials including Portland cement  shall
plants and quarries.                                                          provide
F.   Radioactive waste storage or disposal site.                           at least
G.   Steel mills.                                                          1 loading
H.   Stockyards and slaughterhouses.                                       space for
                                                                              every
                                                                              10,000
                                                                              sq. ft.
                                                                              of floor
                                                                              area
Permitted Accessory Uses and Structures
1.   Uses and structures clearly incidental and necessary to the permitted principal
uses or structures of this district.
2.   Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work, provided that such
buildings are removed promptly upon completion of the construction work.
Special Exception Uses and Structures
The Board of Adjustment may authorize the following special exceptions within the I-
2 Heavy Industrial District:
1.   Height limitations greater than 45 feet.
Prohibited Uses
The following uses are specifically prohibited from the I-2 Heavy Industrial District:
1.   Dwelling units and lodging rooms.
 
I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL I-2
Statement of Intent
Minimum Lot Area and   Minimum Yard Requirement Maximum Height
Width
Area:   20,000 sq. fFront:    25 ft.      45 ft. except as permitted
Width:   100 ft.    Rear:   15 ft.        by special exceptions
                       Side:   15 ft.
Permitted Signs
1.   Temporary signs (not more than six months) advertising the sale or
lease of the premises, not to exceed 32 sq. ft. in area.
2.   Trade, business, or industry identification signs for the business
located on the site provided that:
A.   Signs shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
B.   No sign shall exceed 100 square feet in area or cover more than 20
percent of the building face on which it is located.
C.   Permitted signs shall be located according to Iowa Department of
Transportation sign regulations.
3.   No use shall have more than one of each type of sign permitted for that
use, although each sign may be double faced or back-to-back sign.
4.   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition and
in the event their use shall cease, they shall be promptly removed.
5.   Illumination of signs and bulletin boards shall be indirect, non-
intermittent lighting.
Special Requirements
1.   Exterior storage other than the display of products for retail sale
shall be enclosed by a fence or suitable landscape planting when the I-
2 District property is adjacent to any residential district. The design or
type of screen shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission prior
to its construction. The fence or planting will be required to screen the
stored materials from the view of public streets or residential areas.
2.   No raw material, finished product, or waste product which may cause
dust or odor, or which is toxic which would adversely affect adjoining
properties shall be stored outside a building nor shall any junk, debris, or
waste material be permitted to accumulate on the site.
3.   All unsurfaced yard areas shall be covered with a suitable, well
maintained, perennial ground cover or landscaping plantings.
 
165.08   SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
Subject to Section
165.07, the following provisions regulations, or exceptions shall apply equally
to all districts except as hereinafter provided:
   1.   Visibility at Intersection. On a comer lot in any district except the
C-1 Commercial - Central Business District, no fence, wall, hedge, or other
planting or structure that will obstruct vision between a height of two feet
and 10 feet above the center line grades of the intersecting streets shall be
erected, placed, or maintained within the triangular area formed by connecting
the right-of-way lines at points which are 25 feet distant from the
intersection of the right-of-way lines, and measured along the right-of-way
lines.
   2.   Accessory Buildings. No accessory building shall be erected in any
required front yard and no separate accessory buildings shall be erected within
five feet of any main buildings or within five feet of a rear and or side lot
line.
      A.   Accessory buildings on skids shall require a building permit.
      B.   The total combined square footage of any accessory building or
buildings shall not exceed the total square feet of the principal structure.
      C.   The height of any accessory building shall not exceed the height of
the principal structure.
   3.   More than One Principal Structure on a Lot. In any district, more than
one principal structure housing a permitted principal use may be erected on a
single lot provided that the area, yard, and other requirements of this Zoning
Code shall be met for each structure; as though it were on an individual lot.
   4.   Height Regulation Exception. The height limitations contained in the
Schedules of District Regulations do not apply to grain storage bins, grain
elevators, feed mills, or to spires, belfries, cupolas, chimneys, antennas,
water tanks, ventilators, elevator housing, or other structures placed above
the roof level and not intended for human occupancy.
   5.   Use of Public Right-of-Way. No portion of the public road, street, or
alley right-of-way shall be used, or occupied by an abutting use of land or
structures for storage or display purposes, or to provide any parking or
loading space required by this Zoning Code, or for any other purpose that would
obstruct the use or maintenance of the public right-of-way.
   6.   Proposed Use Not Covered. Any proposed use not covered in this Zoning
Code as a permitted use or special exception shall be referred to the Planning
and Zoning Commission for a recommendation as to the proper district in which
such use should be permitted and the Zoning Code amended as provided in Section
165.09 before a permit is issued for such proposed use.
   7.   Buildings to Have Access. Every building hereafter erected or
structurally altered, shall be on a lot or parcel having a frontage on a public
street or road.
   8.   Mobile Homes or Trailers. Mobile homes occupied as a permanent or
temporary place of residence shall be located only in an approved mobile home
park or mobile home subdivision.
   9.   Fencing and Shrubbery.
      A.   No solid construction fence or any form of shrubbery on a lot line
or within three feet of said lot line shall exceed the following specific
requirements:
         (1)   Front lot line - maximum height shall not exceed four feet above
the ground level at a mature stage of growth.
         (2)   Side lot line - maximum height shall not exceed six feet above
the ground level at a mature stage of growth.
         (3)   Rear lot line - maximum height shall not exceed six feet above
the ground level at a mature stage of growth.
      B.   Within the buildable area of a rear yard, a solid construction fence
or shrubbery shall not exceed a height of:
         (1)   10 feet in A-1, C-1, C-2, I-1, and I-2
         (2)   Six feet in R-1, R-2, and R-3
      C.   On any comer lot, or lot abutting on an alley, no fence or other
structure shall be erected, and no foliage or shrubbery shall be planted or
maintained to a height of more than three feet above the ground. No foliage or
shrubbery, lawn ornaments, statues, or berms shall be planted or maintained,
and no fence shall be constructed in such a manner which will materially
obstruct the view of the drivers of vehicles approaching a street intersection
of an alley approach to a street. Mature trees situated within 30 feet of any
intersection or two streets or an alley and a street shall be trimmed up at
least 10 feet from the ground.
      D.   The use of barbed wire in the City limits is prohibited, except in
agricultural districts (A-1) by permission of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   10.   Required Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking spaces shall be
provided and observe all required yard spaces and be maintained in satisfactory
condition by the property owner for each building or use hereafter erected,
enlarged, or altered in any district in accordance with the minimum requirement
as listed for each district.
   11.   Locating Parking Space in Front Yard. Off-street parking space may be
located within the required front yard in any C-2 or I-1 District, provided
such space is 50 feet or more away from any “R” District. No off-street parking
is permitted in the front yard of any “R” District, except upon a regularly
constructed, duly authorized driveway.
   12.   Off-Street Loading. On the same lot with every building or part
thereof hereafter erected, established, or enlarged and occupied in such a way
as to involve the receipt or distribution by vehicles of materials or
merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained adequate space other than
required yard space for standing, loading, and unloading in order to avoid
undue interference with public use of the street or alley, except in the C-
1 Central Business District.
165.09   APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
Subject to Section
165.07, the regulations and restrictions of this code shall apply as follows:
   1.   Regulations to be Uniformly Applied. The regulations set by this Zoning
Code shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, and
particularly within each district, except as hereinafter provided.
   2.   All Uses and Structures to Conform. No building, structure, or land
shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building, or structure or part
thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or
structurally altered unless in conformity with all of the regulations herein
specified for the district in which it is located.
   3.   Height, Density, or Yards Shall Not be Violated. No building or other
structure shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed the height, to
accommodate or house a greater number of families, or to have narrower or
smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or other open spaces, than herein
required or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this Zoning Code.
   4.   Separate Yards, Open Space, and Off-Street Parking Required. No part of
a yard, other than open space or off-street parking or loading space required
about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying with this
Zoning Code shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-street
parking, or loading space similarly required for any other building.
   5.   Minimum Yards and Lot Areas May Not Be Reduced. No yard or lot existing
at the time of passage of this Zoning Code shall be reduced in dimension or
area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created
after the effective date of this Zoning Code shall meet at least the minimum
requirements established by this Zoning Code.
   6.   New Areas. All territory which may hereafter become a part of the
incorporated area of the City through annexation shall be classified in the A-
1 Limited Agriculture, until otherwise classified, provided, however, that the
Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend the appropriate district
classification prior to such territory becoming a part of the City, and upon
holding of a public hearing and approval by the Council, the territory upon
becoming part of the community may immediately be classified.
165.10   NONCONFORMITIES.
Within the districts established by this Zoning Code or amendments that may
later be adopted, there exist lots, structures, and uses of land and structures
which were lawful before this ordinance was passed or amended, but which would
be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this Zoning Code or
future amendment. Subject to Section 165.07, it is the intent of this Zoning
Code to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed. Such
uses are declared by this Zoning Code to be incompatible with permitted uses in
the districts involved. It is further the intent of this Zoning Code that
nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended, nor be used
as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
district. A nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a
nonconforming use of a structure and land in combination shall not be extended
or enlarged after passage of this Zoning Code by attachment on a building or
premises of additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by
the addition of other uses of a nature which would be prohibited generally in
the district involved. To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this Zoning Code
shall be deemed to require a change in plans, construction, or designated use
of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code and upon which
actual building construction has been diligently carried on. Actual
construction is hereby defined to include the placing of construction materials
in permanent position and fastened in a permanent manner; except that where
demolition or removal of an existing building has been substantially begun
preparatory to rebuilding, such demolition or removal shall be deemed to be
actual construction, provided that work shall be diligently carried on until
completion of the building involved.
165.11   NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provisions of this Zoning Code, a single-family
dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of
record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code. This
provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for
area or width or both that are generally applicable in the district, provided
that yard dimensions and other requirements not involving area or width, or
both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which
such lot is located. Variance of area, width, and yard requirements shall be
obtained only through action of the Board of Adjustment.
165.12   NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code,
lawful use of land exists that is made no longer permissible under the terms of
this Zoning Code as enacted or amended, such use may be continued, so long as
it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   1.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged nor increased nor extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code.
   2.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code.
   3.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than one year, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this Zoning Code for the district in which such
land is located.
165.13   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment
of this ordinance that could not be built under the terms of this Zoning Code
by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards or other
characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, such structure may
be continued for as long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
   1.   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases
its non-conformity.
   2.   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than 65 percent of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall
not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provision of this Zoning
Code. Replacement structure must be built within 12 months of the original date
of loss.
165.14   NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.
If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and premises in combination,
exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code, that
would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this Zoning Code, the
lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions:
   1.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this Zoning
Code in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
   2.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this Zoning Code, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
   3.   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure or structure and premises in combination may be changed to another
nonconforming use provided that the Board of Adjustment, either by general rule
or by making findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed use is
equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing
nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the Board of Adjustment may
require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with the provisions of
this Zoning Code.
   4.   Any structure or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district in which such structure is located, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
   5.   When a nonconforming use of a structure or structure and premises in
combination is discontinued for six consecutive months, the structure
thereafter shall not be used except in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   6.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
165.15   MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR TO NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the maintenance and repair of
nonconforming structures to keep such a structure in sound and safe condition,
provided that no structural enlargement, extension, alteration, or change shall
be made to increase the degree of nonconformity. No purchaser of a
nonconforming property may claim unnecessary hardship.
165.16   USES UNDER EXCEPTION PROVISIONS NOT NONCONFORMING USES.
Any use for which a special exception is permitted as provided in this Zoning
Code shall not be deemed a nonconforming use, but shall, without further
action, be deemed a conforming use in such district.
165.17   ADDITIONAL USES AND STRUCTURES IN C-1 AND C-2.
Any use or structure that is permitted in either R-1 Single Family Residential
or in R-2 Mixed Residential should also be permitted in the C-1 Central
Business and C-2 Highway Commercial.
165.18   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
An Administrative Officer designated by the Mayor shall administer and enforce
this Zoning Code. They may be provided with the assistance of such other
persons as the Mayor may direct. If the Administrative Officer shall find that
any of the provisions of this Zoning Code are being violated, they shall notify
in writing the person responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of
the violation, and ordering the action necessary to correct it. They shall
order discontinuance of illegal buildings or structures or of additions,
alterations, or structural changes, thereto; discontinuance of any illegal work
being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this Zoning Code to
insure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
165.19   APPEALS FROM DECISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
Appeals from any decision of the Administrative Officer may be taken to the
Board of Adjustment as provided in Section 165.30.
165.20   INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Zoning Code
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion and
protection of the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare. Wherever
the requirements of this Zoning Code are at variance with the requirements of
any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinance, deed restrictions, or
covenants, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall
govern.
165.21   VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate or fail to comply with the
provisions of this Zoning Code shall be guilty of a serious misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $100.00 and shall pay all costs
and expenses involved in the prosecution of the violation. Each day such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
165.22   SEPARATE OFFENSES MAY BE CHARGED.
The owners or tenant of a building, structure, land, or part thereof and any
architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains a violation may each be charged with
a separate offense and upon conviction, suffer the penalties herein provided.
165.23   OTHER REMEDIES.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Council or its agents from taking
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
165.24   CONSTRUCTION COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE.
In order to secure compliance with all provision of this chapter, a
Construction Compliance Certificate is required:
   1.   Construction Compliance Certificate. A Construction Compliance
Certificate shall be obtained from the Administrative Officer before any
building or structure shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, or
structurally altered to increase the exterior dimensions, height, or floor
area, or remodeled to increase number of dwelling units or accommodate a change
in use of the building and/or premises or part thereof. The Construction
Compliance Certificate shall state that the proposed construction complies with
all provisions of this chapter and no subsequent modifications shall be made to
plans or to actual construction.
   2.   Suspension or Revocation. The Administrative Officer may suspend or
revoke a certificate if issued in error or on the basis of incorrect
information supplied, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of
the provisions of the City Codes, or as provided in this section.
   3.   Expiration. Every Construction Compliance Certificate issued by the
Administrative Officer under the provisions of this chapter shall expire by
limitation and become null and void, if the building or work authorized by such
certificate is not commenced within 180 days from the date of such certificate,
or if the building or work authorized by such certificate commenced for a
period of 180 days. Upon expiration, the Administrative Officer shall revoke
the certificate.
   4.   Before the work can be recommenced, a new Construction Compliance
Certificate may be obtained but only upon payment of a new certificate fee and
approval by the Council, provided no changes have been made, or will be made in
the original plans and specifications for such work, and provided further, that
the project has not been dormant for a period exceeding one year.
   5.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any certificate holder may apply for an
extension of time within which he may commence work under that certificate when
they are unable to commence work within the time required by this section for
good and satisfactory reasons. The application for extension shall be made to
the Council and the Council may extend the time for action by the certificate
holder for a period not exceeding 180 days, upon written certification by the
certificate holder showing that circumstances beyond the control of the
certificate holder had prevented action from being taken. No certificate shall
be extended more than once.
165.25   OCCUPANCY COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE.
Subsequent to the effective date of this chapter, no change in the use or
occupancy of land nor any change in use or occupancy in an existing building,
other than for single-family dwelling purposes, shall be made, nor shall any
new building be occupied for any purpose other than a single-family dwelling
until an Occupancy Compliance Certificate has been issued by the Administrative
Officer. Every Occupancy Compliance Certificate shall state that the new
occupancy complies with all provisions of this chapter and no subsequent
modifications shall be made to the occupancy, use or method of operation that
would be in violation of this chapter.
165.26   APPLICATION FOR COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATES.
Applications for compliance certificates shall be made prior to beginning
construction or assuming occupancy on fully completed application forms
obtained from the Administrative Officer, accompanied by such plans and
information necessary to determine that the proposed construction or occupancy
complies with all applicable provisions of this chapter.
165.27   FEES.
The Administrative Officer is directed to issue a Construction Compliance
Certificate and/or Occupancy Compliance Certificate as required by this chapter
in accordance with the following fee structure:
   1.   Fences, Decks, Signs, and alterations to roofs that change the overall
extension of the roof line      $15.00.
   2.   Garages and Additions      $25.00.
   3.   Single-Family Residential      $50.00.
   4.   House with attached garage      $75.00.
   5.   Commercial, Industrial or Multi-family Residential   $75.00.
   6.   Change In Use/Occupancy Compliance Certificate   $50.00.
165.28   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
The Board shall consist of three members to be appointed by the Mayor for a
term of five years. Members of the Board of Adjustment may be removed from the
office by the Council for cause upon written charges and after public hearing.
Vacancies shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired term of a member.
165.29   PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the following rules of procedure:
   1.   All members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   2.   The City Administrator/Clerk shall serve as Secretary of the Board. In
the absence of the Secretary, the Chairman of the Board may appoint one of the
members of the Board to act as Secretary Pro Tern for the meeting. The Board
shall have the power to call on any City department or officer for assistance
in the performance of its duties, and it shall be the duty of such department
or officer to render such assistance as may reasonably be required. The Board
shall also receive and consider recommendations submitted by the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   3.   The Board may adopt, from time to time, subject to the approval of the
Council, such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to carry into
effect the provisions of this Zoning Code.
   4.   The Board shall annually elect its own Chairperson at the first meeting
on or after January 1 of each year. Such Chairperson, or in their absence, the
acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
There shall be a fixed place of meeting and all meetings shall be open to the
public. The presence of two members shall be necessary to constitute a quorum.
The concurring vote of the two members shall be necessary on all matters upon
which it is required to pass under the provisions of this Zoning Code.
   5.   The Secretary of the Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question. If a member is absent of
fails to vote, the minutes shall indicate such fact. The Board shall keep
records of its examination and other official actions, which shall be on file
in the Office of the Clerk as a public record.
   6.   The concurring vote of three members of the Board shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Administrative Officer or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under this Zoning Code; or to effect any
variation of this Zoning Code. On all appeals, applications, and other matters
brought before the Board, said Board shall inform, in writing, all the parties
involved of its decisions, and the reasons therefore.
165.30   HEARING, APPEALS, NOTICE.
Appeals to the Board of Adjustment concerning interpretation or administration
of this Zoning Code may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer or
bureau of the governing body of the City affected by a decision of the Zoning
Administrator. Such appeals should be taken within a reasonable time, not to
exceed 30 days, by filing with the Zoning Administrator and with the Board of
Adjustment, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning
Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken. The Board of Adjustment
shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeal, give public notices
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. At the hearing any party may appear in person or by
agent or attorney. A fee of $50.00 plus cost of notice and publication shall be
paid to the Zoning Administrator at the time the notice of appeal is filed,
which the Zoning Administrator shall credit to the City.
165.31   STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the Zoning Administrator from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the
Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal is filed with him, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in their opinion,
cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board
of Adjustment or by a court of record on application, on notice to the Zoning
Administrator from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
165.32   POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties:
   1.   Administrative Review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
that there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made
by the Administrative Officer in the enforcement of this Zoning Code.
   2.   Special Exceptions: Conditions Governing Applications, Procedures. To
hear and decide only such special exceptions as the Board of Adjustment is
specifically authorized to pass on by the terms of this Zoning Code; to decide
such questions as are involved in determining whether special exceptions should
be granted and to grant special exceptions with such conditions and safeguards
as are appropriate under this Zoning Code, and to deny special exceptions when
not in harmony with the purpose and intent of this Zoning Code. A special
exception shall not be granted by the Board of Adjustment unless and until:
      A.   A written application for a special exception is submitted
indicating the section of this Zoning Code under which the special exception is
sought and stating the grounds on which it is requested.
      B.   Prior to final Board of Adjustment action on any special exception,
the Planning and Zoning Commission must review the request and recommend
approval or denial.
      C.   The names and addresses of all adjacent property owners of the
exterior boundaries of the property for which the special exception is required
indicating their approval or denial will be contacted by mail for the purpose
of a courtesy notice of the public hearing.
      D.   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person, or
by agent or attorney. At least four and no more than 20 days notice of the time
and place of hearing shall be published in a newspaper having general
circulation in the City.
(Code of Iowa, Chapter 362.3)
      E.   The Board of Adjustment shall make a finding that it is empowered
under the section of this chapter described in the application to grant the
special exception, and that the granting of the special exception will not
adversely affect the public interest.
      F.   The final decision shall include the findings of fact and the
conclusions reached by the Board of Adjustment. The decision must be in writing
and include all conditions that may be associated with the decision. The
decision should not be a mere conclusion or statement. Each decision shall be
accompanied by a specific finding of fact. These findings should be related to
the specific standards stating the chapter which the applicant must satisfy.
In granting any special exception, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this Zoning Code.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the special exception is granted, shall be deemed a violation of
this Zoning Code and punishable under Section 165.21. The Board shall prescribe
a time limit within which the action for which the special exception is
required shall be begun or completed, or both. Failure to begin or complete, or
both, such action within the time limit set shall void the special exception.
   3.   Variances: Conditions Governing Application; Procedures. To authorize
upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of this Zoning Code
as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to the special
conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this Zoning Code would
result in unnecessary hardship. A variance from the terms of this Zoning Code
shall not be granted by the Board of Adjustment unless and until:
      A.   A written application for a variance is submitted demonstrating:
         (1)   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures, or building in the same district.
         (2)   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this Zoning
Code would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties
in the same district under the terms of this Zoning Code.
         (3)   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from
the actions of the applicant.
         (4)   The names and addresses of all adjacent property owners of the
exterior boundaries of the property for which the variance is required
indicating their approval or denial will be contacted by mail for the purpose
of a courtesy notice of the public hearing.
         (5)   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this Zoning Code to other
lands, structures, or buildings in the same district. No nonconforming use of
neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in the same district, and no
permitted use of land, structures or building in other districts shall be
considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
      B.   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person, or
by agent or by attorney. At least four and no more than 20 days’ notice of the
time and place of hearing shall be published in a newspaper having general
circulation in the City.
(Code of Iowa, Chapter 362.3)
      C.   The final decision shall include the finding of fact and the
conclusions reached by the Board of Adjustment. The decision must be in writing
and include all conditions that may be associated with the decision. The
decision should not be a mere conclusion or statement. Each decision shall be
accompanied by specific findings of fact. These findings should be related to
the specific standards stating the ordinance which the applicant must satisfy.
      D.   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and
that the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
reasonable use of the land, building, or structure.
      E.   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this Zoning Code, and will not be injurious to the neighborhood, or
otherwise detrimental to the public welfare. In granting any variance, the
Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in
conformity with this Zoning Code. Violations of such conditions and safeguards,
when made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be
deemed a violation of this Zoning Code and punishable under Section 165.21.
Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a variance to allow
a use not permissible under the terms of this Zoning Code in the district
involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of
this Zoning Code in said district.
   4.   Classifications. To classify commercial and industrial uses not
specifically tested in this Zoning Code.
165.33   DECISIONS OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
In exercising the above­mentioned powers, the Board of Adjustment may, so long
as such action is in conformity with the terms of this Zoning Code, reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination as ought to be made and to that end shall have powers of the
Zoning Administrator from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of
three members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of the Zoning Administrator, or to
decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to
pass under this Zoning Code, or to effect any variation in application of this
Zoning Code.
165.34   APPEALS FROM THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
Any person or persons, or any board, taxpayer, department, board, or bureau of
the community aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Adjustment may seek
review of such decision of the Board of Adjustment may seek review of such
decision of the Board of Adjustment by a court of record in the manner provided
by the laws of the State and particularly by Chapter 414 of the Code of Iowa.
165.35   CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
The regulations imposed and the districts created by this Zoning Code may be
amended from time to time by the Council, but no such amendment shall be made
without public hearing before the Council and after a report has been made upon
the amendment by the Planning and Zoning Commission. At least four and no more
than 20 days’ notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published
in a newspaper having general circulation in the City; and in no case shall the
public hearing be held earlier than the next regularly scheduled Council
meeting following the published notice. In case the Commission does not approve
the change, or in the case of a protest filed with the Council against a change
in district boundaries signed by the owners of 20 percent or more either of the
area of the lots included in such proposed change or of those immediately
adjacent thereto, such amendment shall not be passed except by the favorable
vote of three-fourths of all the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Chapter 362.3)
165.36   APPLICATION FOR CHANGE OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
Any person may submit to the Council an application requesting a change in the
zoning district boundaries as shown on the Official Zoning Map.
   1.   Such application shall be filed with the Administrative Officer
accompanied by a fee of $50.00 plus notice and publication costs, and shall
contain the following information:
      A.   The legal description and local address of the property.·
      B.   The present zoning classification and the zoning classification
requested for the property.
      C.   The existing use and proposed use of the property.
      D.   The names and addresses of the adjoining property owners of the
property for which the change is requested.
      E.   A statement of the reasons why the applicant feels the present
zoning classification is no longer valid.
      F.   A plat showing the locations, dimensions and use of the applicant's
property and all adjacent property, including streets, alleys, railroads, and
other physical features.
      G.   A plan showing:
         (1)   Erosion and sediment control,
         (2)   Protection of natural vegetation cover,
         (3)   Open space requirements,
         (4)   Perimeter fences, and
         (5)   Protecting the integrity of existing drainage areas and/or
tiles. All fees shall be deposited to the General Revenue fund of the City.
Failure to approve the requested change shall not be deemed cause to refund the
fee to the applicant.
   2.   Upon receipt of the application by the Zoning Administrator a copy
shall be forwarded immediately to the Planning and Zoning Commission for study
and recommendation. The Commission shall, prior to making a recommendation,
determine the following:
      A.   Whether or not the current district classification of the property
to be rezoned is valid.
      B.   Whether there is a need for additional land zoned for the purpose
requested.
      C.   Whether the proposed change is consistent with the current land use
plan, considering such factors as:
         (1)   Whether the rezoning would result in a population density or
development which would in turn cause a demand for services and utilities in
excess of the capacity planned for the area.
         (2)   Whether the rezoning would result in the generating of traffic
in excess of the capacity of existing or planned streets in the vicinity.
      D.   Whether there is an intent on the part of the applicant to develop
the property to be rezoned diligently and within a reasonable time.
   3.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall report its determinations and
recommendations to the Council within 30 days from receipt of the application,
except that when no report is issued within that time, the application will be
deemed approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The Council shall then
call a public hearing as provided in Section
165.35.
CHAPTER 170
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
 
170.01 Purpose                          170.07 Action by the Council
170.02 Definitions                      170.08 Improvements Required
170.03 Platting Required                170.09 Completion of Improvements
170.04 Procedure                        170.10 Performance Bond
170.05 Requirements of Preliminary Plat 170.11 Variances
170.06 Submitted Plat Attachments       170.12 Changes and Amendments
 
170.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards for the design,
development, and improvement of all new subdivisions and resubdivisions so that
existing developments will be protected and so that adequate provisions are
made for public services and to promote the health, safety, and general welfare
in the City.
170.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
   1.   “Lot” means a portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or for
building development.
   2.   “Performance bond” means a surety bond or cash deposit made out to the
City, in an amount equal to the full cost of the improvements which are
required by this chapter, said cost estimated by the City Council Committee on
Streets, and said surety bond or cash bond being legally sufficient to secure
to the City that the said improvements will be constructed in accordance with
this chapter.
   3.   “Plat” means a map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider’s plan of
the subdivision of land is presented and which the subdivider submits for
approval and intends, in final form, to record.
   4.   “Subdivider” means the person undertaking the subdivision or
resubdivision of a tract or parcel of land.
   5.   “Subdivision” means the division of land into three or more lots or
other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership or building development. The term, when appropriate to
the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided,
or the resubdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots or other
divisions of land, or, if a new street is involved, any division of land.
170.03   PLATTING REQUIRED.
Every owner of any tract or parcel of land who has subdivided or shall
hereafter subdivide or plat the same for the purpose of laying out an addition,
subdivision, building lot or lots, acreage, or suburban lots within the City
or, pursuant to Section 354.9 of the Code of Iowa, within two miles from the
corporate limits shall cause plats of such area to be made in the form, and
containing the information, as hereinafter set forth before selling any lots
therein contained or placing the plat on record.
170.04   PROCEDURE.
In obtaining final approval of a proposed subdivision by the Council, the
subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat in accordance with the requirements
hereinafter set forth and install improvements or provide a performance bond.
170.05   REQUIREMENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The submitted plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn to a scale of not more
than 100 feet to one inch with India ink on a reproducible tracing linen. It
shall show:
   1.   Title. The title under which the subdivision is to be recorded.
   2.   Dimensions. The linear dimensions in feet and decimals of a foot of the
subdivision boundary, lot lines, streets, and alleys. These should be exact and
complete to include all distances, radii, arc, chords, points of tangency and
central angles.
   3.   Street Names. Street names and clear designations of public alleys.
Streets that are continuations of present streets should bear the same name. If
new names are needed, they should be distinctive. Street names may be required
to conform to the City Plan.
   4.   Location of Monuments. Location, type, materials, and size of all
monuments and markers including all U.S., County, or other official benchmarks.
   5.   Plat Acknowledged. The plat should be signed and acknowledged by the
subdivision land owner and his or her spouse.
   6.   Certification. A sealed certification of the accuracy of the plat by
the professional engineer or land surveyor who drew the submitted plat.
170.06   SUBMITTED PLAT ATTACHMENTS.
The submitted plat shall have the following attached to it:
   1.   A correct description of the subdivision land.
   2.   A statement by the proprietors and their spouses, if any, that the plat
is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire, signed
and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgments of
deeds. The statement by the proprietors may also include a dedication to the
public of all lands within the plat that are designated for streets, alleys,
parks, open areas, school property or other public use, if the dedication is
approved by the Council.
   3.   An opinion by an attorney-at-law who has examined the abstract of title
of the land being platted. The opinion shall state the names of the proprietors
and holders of mortgages, liens, or other encumbrances on the land being
platted and shall note the encumbrances, along with any bonds securing the
encumbrances. Utility easements shall not be construed to be encumbrances for
the purpose of this section.
   4.   A certificate of the County Treasurer that the land is free from
certified taxes and certified special assessments or that the land is free from
certified taxes and that the certified special assessments are secured by bond
in compliance with Section 354.12 of the Code of Iowa.
   5.   A certificate of dedication of streets and other public property.
   6.   A statement of restrictions of all types that run with the land and
become covenants in the deeds of lots.
   7.   Resolution and certificate for approval by the Council and for
signatures of the Mayor and City Administrator/Clerk.
   8.   Profiles, typical cross sections, and specifications of street
improvements and utility systems, to show the location, size, and grade. These
should be shown on a 50-foot horizontal scale and a five foot vertical scale
with west or south at the left.
   9.   A certificate by the Council committees or other designated City
official that all required improvements and installations have been completed,
or that a performance bond guaranteeing completion has been approved by the
City Attorney and filed with the City Administrator/Clerk, or that the Council
has agreed that the City will provide the necessary improvements and
installations and assess the costs against the subdivider or future property
owners in the subdivision.
   10.   The encumbrance bond, if any.
170.07   ACTION BY THE COUNCIL.
Upon receipt of the certification by the designated City Official, the Council
shall, within a reasonable time, either approve or disapprove the submitted
plat.
   1.   In the event that said plat is disapproved by the Council, such
disapproval shall be expressed in writing and shall point out wherein said
proposed plat is objectionable.
   2.   In the event that said plat is found to be acceptable and in accordance
with this chapter, the Council shall accept the same.
   3.   The passage of a resolution by the Council accepting the plat shall
constitute final approval of the platting of the area shown on the submitted
plat, but the subdivider or owner shall cause such plat to be recorded in the
office of the County Recorder and shall file satisfactory evidence of such
recording in the office of the City Administrator/Clerk before the City shall
recognize the plat as being in full force and effect.
170.08   IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
The subdivider shall install and construct all improvements required by this
chapter. All required improvements shall be installed and constructed in
accordance with the specifications and under the supervision of the Council and
to its satisfaction.
   1.   Streets and Alleys. All streets and alleys within the platted area
which are dedicated for public use shall be brought to the grade approved by
the Council after receiving the report and recommendations of the City Council
Committee on Streets.
   2.   Roadways. All roadways shall be prepared with a crushed stone base as
the Council may require.
   3.   Curb and Gutter. Curb and gutter may, at the discretion of the Council,
be required on all streets. All curb and gutter shall be constructed to the
grade approved by the Council after receiving the report and recommendations of
the City Council Committee on Streets.
   4.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks may be required by the Council if they are
considered necessary for the general welfare and safety of the community.
Sidewalks shall be constructed to the grade approved by the Council after
receiving the report and recommendations of the City Council Committee on
Streets.
   5.   Water Lines. Where a public water main is reasonably accessible, the
subdivider shall connect with such water main and provide a water connection
for each lot with service pipe installed to the property line in accordance
with the Water Department standards, procedure, and supervision.
   6.   Sewers. Provision shall be made for adequate sanitary sewage disposal
and storm drainage as follows:
      A.   Where a public sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible, the
subdivider shall connect or provide for the connection with such sanitary sewer
and shall provide within the subdivision the sanitary sewer system required to
make the sewer accessible to each lot in the subdivision. Sanitary sewers shall
be stubbed into each lot. Sewer systems shall be approved by the Council and
the State Department of Health, and the construction shall be subject to the
supervision of the Council Committee on Water and Disposal.
      B.   Where sanitary sewers are not available, other facilities, as
approved by the Council and the State Department of Health, must be provided
for the adequate disposal of sanitary wastes.
      C.   Adequate provisions shall be made for the disposal of stormwaters,
subject to the approval of the Council and to the supervision of the Council
Committee on Water and Disposal.
170.09   COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
Before the Council will expend any public funds in the subdivision, all of the
foregoing improvements shall be constructed and accepted by formal resolution
of the Council. Before passage of said resolution of acceptance, the
aforementioned Council committees shall report that said improvements meet all
City specifications and ordinances or other City requirements, and the
agreements between subdivider and the City.
170.10   PERFORMANCE BOND.
The completion requirement may be waived in whole or in part if the subdivider
will post a performance bond with the Council guaranteeing that improvements
not completed will be constructed within a period of one year from the day the
lots are conveyed and/or occupied; but final acceptance of the plat will not
constitute final acceptance by the City of any improvements to be constructed.
170.11   VARIANCES.
Where in the case of a particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown that
strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter would result in
extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography or other
conditions, the Council may, upon recommendation from the Commission, vary,
modify, or waive the requirements so that substantial justice may be done, and
the public interest secured. Provided, however, such variance, modification or
waiver will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this
chapter. In no case shall any variance or modification be more than minimum
easing of the requirements and in no instance shall it be in conflict with any
zoning ordinance and such variances and waivers may be granted only by the
affirmative vote of three-fourths of the members of the Council.
170.12   CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
Any regulations or provisions of this chapter may be changed and amended from
time to time by the Council, provided however, that such changes or amendments
shall not become effective until after a public hearing has been held, public
notice of which shall have been published at least once, not less than seven or
more than 20 days before the date of the hearing.
 
