GUTHRIE COUNTY, IOWA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through Ord.  37, passed - -
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   COUNTY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   County powers
   
10.04   Indemnity
   
10.05   Personal injuries
   
10.06   Rules of construction
   
10.07   Extension of authority
   
10.08   Amendments
   
10.09   Catchlines and notes
   
10.10   Altering code
   
10.11   Severability
   
10.12   Warrants
   
10.13   General standards for action
 
   
10.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Ordinance adoption procedure, see
Chapter 30
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the “Code of
Ordinances of the County of Guthrie, Iowa, 2023”.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way, other than a street, affording secondary means
of access to abutting property.
   AUDITOR. The County Auditor of Guthrie County, Iowa.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The Guthrie County Board of Supervisors.
   CODE OF ORDINANCES. The Code of Ordinances of the County of Guthrie, Iowa,
2023.
   COUNTY. Guthrie County, Iowa.
   MAY. Confers a power.
   MEASURE. An ordinance, amendment, resolution or motion.
   MUST. States a requirement.
   OCCUPANT or TENANT. Applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the County of Guthrie, Iowa, as embodied in
this code of ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance adopting this
code of ordinances and those enacted hereafter.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign corporation,
company, association or joint stock association, trust or other legal entity,
and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee or similar representative thereof,
but does not include a governmental body.
   PUBLIC WAY. Includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk or other public thoroughfare.
   SHALL. Imposes a duty.
   SIDEWALK. The surfaced portion of the street between the edge of the
traveled way, surfacing or curb line and the adjacent property line, intended
for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Iowa.
   STATUTES or LAWS. The latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as amended.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
§ 10.03 COUNTY POWERS.
   The county may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if
not inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power
and perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the
rights, privileges and property of the county and of its residents, and
preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort and
convenience of its residents and each and every provision of this code of
ordinances shall be deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and
the performance of the foregoing functions.
(Iowa Code § 364.1)
§ 10.04 INDEMNITY.
   (A)   The applicant for any permit or license under this code of ordinances,
by making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for all injury to or
death of any person or persons whomsoever, and all loss of or damage to
property whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however
arising from or related to, directly, indirectly or remotely, the issuance of
the permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of
such applicant, or the agents, employees or servants of such applicant, to
abide by or comply with any of the provisions of this code of ordinances or the
terms and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making
such application, forever agrees to indemnify the county and its officers,
agents and employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims,
demands, lawsuits or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury or
death, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the
foregoing.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any
permit or license issued under this code of ordinances or any other ordinance
of the county whether expressly recited therein or not.
§ 10.05 PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   When action is brought against the county for personal injuries
alleged to have been caused by its negligence, the county may notify in writing
any person by whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice
shall state the pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and
location of the court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the
alleged facts from which the cause arose, that the county believes that the
person notified is liable to it for any judgment rendered against the county
and asking the person to appear and defend.
   (B)   A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any action by the
county against any person so notified, as to the existence of the defect or
other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the county to the
plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage or
injury. The county may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the county in the suit.
(Iowa Code § 364.14)
§ 10.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this code of ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Iowa Code Chapter 4 shall be utilized to ascertain
the intent of the Board of Supervisors with the understanding that the term
“statute”, as used therein, will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this code of ordinances.
§ 10.07 EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
   Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this code of ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS.
   All ordinances which amend, repeal or in any manner affect this code of
ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, division or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the county.
(Iowa Code § 380.2)
§ 10.09 CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of the code of ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section and division), editor’s notes, cross-references and
state law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in the code of ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law, and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement or clarify the contents of
a section.
§ 10.10 ALTERING CODE.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of the code of ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the code of
ordinances in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to
be misrepresented thereby.
(Iowa Code § 718.5)
§ 10.11 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, provision or part of the code of ordinances is adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of
the code of ordinances as a whole or any section, provision or part thereof not
adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
§ 10.12 WARRANTS.
   If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the county officer or employee having the duty to enter upon
or conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
county, pursuant to Iowa Code § 808.14, for an administrative search warrant.
No owner, operator or occupant or any other person having charge, care or
control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure, building or premises
shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search warrant, to permit entry
therein by the municipal officer or employee.
§ 10.13 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
   Whenever this code of ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Board
of Supervisors or any commission, board or officer or employee of the county
and does not specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power
shall be exercised in light of the following standard: the discretionary power
to grant, deny or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts
and circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by the code of ordinances for
any particular provision, section or chapter, any person failing to perform a
duty, or obtain a license required by, or violating any provision of the code
of ordinances, or any rule or regulation adopted herein by reference shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment not
to exceed 30 days.
(Iowa Code § 364.3(2))
CHAPTER 11: COUNTY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Precincts
§ 11.01 PRECINCTS.
   (A)   District #1 is divided into two voting precincts:
      (1)   District 1, Precinct hereinafter known as “Red” shall be comprised
of all of Orange and Highland Townships, including the City of Bayard and the
City of Coon Rapids within the county; and
      (2)   District 1, Precinct hereinafter known as “Green” shall be
comprised of all of Dodge and Richland Townships and that part of Cass Township
commencing at the northwest corner; thence south to Sage Trail; thence south
and east on Sage Trail to 200th Road; thence east to Highway 4 in Section
29; south on Highway 4 to the city limits of the City of Panora; east along the
northern city limit boundary to the east half of Section 33 (Utopia Avenue);
north on Utopia Avenue to 210th Street; thence east along the southern boundary
of the east half of Section 28 and all of Sections 27, 26, 25 (210th Street) to
the eastern border of the county; north to the northeast corner of Cass
Township; thence west to the point of beginning including the Cities of Bagley,
Jamaica and Yale all within the county.
   (B)   District #2 is divided into three voting precincts:
      (1)   District 2, Precinct hereinafter known as “White” shall be
comprised of all of Union, Seely and Bear Grove Townships;
      (2)   District 2, Precinct hereinafter known as “Black” shall be
comprised of all of Grant and Thompson Townships, including the City of Casey
and the City of Adair within the county; and
      (3)   District 2, Precinct hereinafter knows as “Brown” shall be
comprised of Victory Township, except Census Block 190779503002023 and that
part of the Town of Guthrie Center lying in Victory Township.
   (C)   District #3 shall include one voting precinct: District 3, Precinct
hereinafter known as “Blue” shall be comprised of all of Jackson Township and
that part of Cass Township commencing at the southwest corner of the southern
boundary of District #1; thence east along the southern boundary line of said
District # 1 to the eastern border of Cass Township; thence south to the
southeast corner, thence west to the southwest corner; thence north to the
northwest corner of Section 14 (238th Lane); then east along the southern line
of 238th Lane to the western boundary of Section 12 (Yellow Avenue); thence
north on Yellow Avenue to the northeast corner of Section 2 (Highway 44);
thence west along the north side of Highway 44, including all of the City of
Panora lying north and south of Highway 44 to the western township line of Cass
Township and north to the point of beginning.
   (D)   District #4 shall include one voting precinct: District #4, Precinct
hereinafter known as “Gold” shall be comprised of all of Baker and Valley
Townships, Census Block 190779503002023 lying in Victory Township, and the Town
of Guthrie Center lying in Valley and Victory Townships, and that part of Cass
Township lying south of Highway 44, excluding the City of Panora easterly to
Yellow Avenue; thence south to 238 Lane; thence west along 238th Lane and the
northern boundary of Jackson Township to the western boundary of Cass Township;
thence north to Highway 44 the point of the beginning.
   (E)   District #5 shall include one voting precinct: District #5, Precinct
hereinafter known as “Purple” shall be comprised of all of Beaver, Stuart and
Penn Townships including the City of Menlo
and the City of Stuart within the county.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-6-2011; Ord. 29A, passed 9-20-2011)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Ordinance adoption procedure
   
30.02   Sales and service taxes
Assistance Program
   
30.15   Categories
   
30.16   Definitions
   
30.17   Method of assistance
   
30.18   Eligibility of needy persons
   
30.19   Eligibility of poor persons
   
30.20   Level of benefits
   
30.21   Requirements for receiving assistance
   
30.22   Application for assistance
   
30.23   Initial determination
   
30.24   Appeal; hearing
   
30.25   Actions taken by Board of Supervisors
   
30.26   Additional and state provisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ORDINANCE ADOPTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Purpose. The procedures in this section shall be used by the county
for the adoption and amendment of ordinances in the county.
   (B)   Two considerations before final passage.
      (1)   A proposed ordinance must be considered and voted on for passage at
two regular meetings of the Board of Supervisors.
      (2)   The title of the proposed ordinance shall be published at least 15
days prior to its first consideration. Copies of the full text of the ordinance
will be made available at the time of publication where copies may be obtained.
A copy of the proposed ordinance shall also be posted in a prominent place in
the courthouse for public inspection.
      (3)   A final publication of the title of the ordinance shall be
published at least 15 days before the meeting for final consideration of the
ordinance.
      (4)   No more than ten days following the final passage of the ordinance,
there will be a full and complete publication of the adopted ordinance.
      (5)   Note: if, when considering an ordinance, a substantial change is
made by an amendment, it is suggested that the Board reprint the summary noting
the change.
   (C)   Amendment. An amendment to an ordinance must specifically repeal the
ordinance, or the section or division to be amended, and must set forth in full
the ordinance, section or division as amended. If an ordinance is to be
repealed or amended, the procedure will be the same as in enacting an
ordinance.
   (D)   Majority requirement. Passage of an ordinance or an amendment to an
existing ordinance requires an affirmative vote or not less than a simple
majority of the entire Board of Supervisors. Each Board member’s vote on an
ordinance must be recorded in the Board’s official minutes.
   (E)   Effective date. Upon final passage of an ordinance or an amendment to
an existing ordinance and the signatures of a simple majority of the entire
Board of Supervisors, the ordinance or amendment will become effective upon
publication, unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the measure.
   (F)   Severability clause. If some parts of this section or subsequent
ordinances are found to be inconsistent or in conflict with state and/or legal
principles, those parts shall not invalidate the remainder of the ordinance.
   (G)   Definitions. The use of all words in this section and subsequent
ordinances shall be determined by the definitions provided in Iowa Code Chapter
4, unless otherwise provided in this section.
   (H)   Maintenance and publication of ordinances.
      (1)   In accordance with the provisions of this section, the County
Auditor shall cause all ordinances, amendments or summaries thereof to be
published in at least one newspaper having general circulation in the county.
      (2)   Final copies of any ordinance or amended ordinances shall be
recorded by the County Recorder and made available to the public upon request.
      (3)   All adopted and amended ordinances shall be printed or otherwise
reproduced for adequate distribution.
   (I)   County ordinance book. All adopted ordinances and amended ordinances
shall be maintained in a separate book known as “Guthrie County Ordinance
Book”. The book shall be maintained in the office of the County Auditor.
(Ord. passed 8-7-1980)
§ 30.02 SALES AND SERVICE TAXES.
   The following local option sales and services taxes, and any policies and
procedures regarding them, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full:
   (A)   School infra-structure local option sales and service tax; and
   (B)   Local option sales and service tax.
(Ord. 2003-, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 23, passed 9-6-2005)
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
§ 30.15 CATEGORIES.
   (A)   There shall be three categories of general assistance in the county.
   (B)   They are:
      (1)   Emergency assistance for needy persons;
      (2)   Assistance for poor persons; and
      (3)   Assistance of an extended nature.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 30.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSISTANCE. Food, rent, shelter, utilities, medical, fuel, transportation.
Food does not include cigarettes or alcoholic beverages, but may include care
and upkeep items such as laundry soap, household cleaners and other items of a
non-food nature used for personal hygiene.
   AWAITING APPROVAL AND RECEIPT. A poor person who has applied for assistance
under any state or federal law: who pursued that application with due
diligence; and who has not had that application denied.
      (1)   This does not include an appeal of a denial of benefits.
      (2)   It does include a person who has had an application denied and who
reapplies after 18 consecutive months have lapsed since the date of the denial.
   HOUSEHOLD. The individual applying and all members of the immediate family
(spouse, significant other, children under 18 years of age, children over 18
years of age who are dependent upon the applicant and anyone else who is a
dependent of the applicant for federal tax purposes) or anyone who reside(s)
with the applicant as a HOUSEHOLD.
   LIQUID ASSETS. Cash or any other item of net worth of the household that can
be readily converted to cash within seven days.
   NEEDY PERSON. A person or the household of that person who is domiciled in
the county or who is a transient in the county for less than three days who,
because of circumstances which are not attributable to that person, needs
immediate assistance.
   NET WORTH. Includes income or monies from any source, moneys due, savings
and other deposits, stocks, bonds, real estate, cash value of life insurance
policies, jewelry and value of all other real and personal property, but
excludes clothing, engagement and wedding rings, usual household furniture,
bedding, towels and similar equipment, one automobile and a homestead.
   POOR PERSON. A person or the household of that person who is domiciled in
the county and who because of physical or mental disability, is unable to
engage in gainful employment and otherwise cannot make a living.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 30.17 METHOD OF ASSISTANCE.
   The assistance shall be purchased directly from the supplier for the
applicant or the household. It may be for one or more of the items of
assistance that are allowable. No cash will be provided.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 30.18 ELIGIBILITY OF NEEDY PERSONS.
   Emergency assistance is to be provided to a needy person who is in need, of
immediate assistance, not obtainable from any other source and whose income or
assistance from a state or federal program has been delayed or not actually
received by that person, due to reasons not attributable to that person, and
whose household does not have liquid assets from which to pay for the items of
assistance that can be provided. Emergency assistance is also to be provided
persons who are in need of immediate assistance, which are not obtainable from
any other source, whose net worth is less than 100% of the current federal
poverty level, and who, due to reasons not attributable to that person, does
not have liquid assets of his or her household from which to pay for items of
assistance that are provided.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 30.19 ELIGIBILITY OF POOR PERSONS.
   Relief is to be provided to poor persons who legally reside in the county,
and are in need of immediate assistance, cannot obtain assistance from any
other source, whose household net worth is less than 100% of the current
federal poverty level and who are eligible for, and are awaiting approval and
receipt of assistance under programs provided by state or federal law, or whose
actual needs, as defined within the limitations of this subchapter, cannot be
fully met by the assistance furnished under such programs.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 30.20 LEVEL OF BENEFITS.
   (A)   The maximum level of benefits to be provided for each item of
assistance for each person or that person’s household shall be:
      (1)   Food (if food stamps have not been received). Valued at the level
of guidelines for food stamps. Food vouchers and receipts must be returned to
the Director;
      (2)   Rent and shelter. The reasonable rental value not to exceed $200
per month. Rent will only be paid for the current month, and shall not be paid
to relatives. Rent payments are limited to once in a fiscal year. This may be
exceeded for a person who is awaiting approval and receipt of benefits or if a
medical statement from a physician is provided stating that the person is
unable to work. A signed rental agreement is required. If said landlord has
previously signed a rental agreement, a second agreement is not required.
Higher rent may be paid for one month at the discretion of the General Relief
Director;
      (3)   Clothing. The individual will be referred to other sources;
      (4)   Utilities (heat, lights and water). The amount needed to provide
these services and supplies. Sewer and garbage costs will be included as long
as the main utility (gas, water) is being utilized. The amount authorized will
be the current month’s usage. The utility bill must be in the name of the
applicant or landlord and the applicant must be residing full time in the
residence for which the utility assistance is requested. Payment, if eligible,
must ensure, utility service is not disconnected for the month. An applicant
must show effort to have paid on any and all utility bills within the last
months from the date of application. If no payments have been made, no
assistance will be granted. In addition, if no payments are made during the
period of moratorium (energy assistance time frame), no assistance will be
granted. “Utilities” does not include telephone, cable or internet service;
      (5)   Medical services, dental services (emergency extraction only) and
prescriptions. The reasonable value of these services actually needed on an
emergency basis;
      (6)   Transportation expenses. Gas for a vehicle will be provided for
transportation to a medical appointment or to seek employment; provided that,
proof of application for benefits or employment, and medical appointment is
provided to the Director;
      (7)   Burials. Burial expense is limited to a maximum of $2,000. Burial
may be provided to deceased person, if deceased meets the eligibility burial
guidelines. Burial must be applied for at the time of death, and before burial;
and
      (8)   Maximum benefits. The maximum benefits for any one person per
fiscal year, which runs July through June, shall be $1,000, excluding burial,
and $1,500 per household living unit, excluding burial.
   (B)   (1)   The total amount for all of the items of relief needed, at any
one time, shall be determined, and there shall be deducted the amount of liquid
assets the person or family unit have available and the remaining is the amount
of relief benefits the needy person is to receive.
      (2)   If the needy or poor person, except for reasons not attributable to
that person, fails to repay the value of the benefits received, if agreed, he
or she shall be disqualified from receiving future benefits.
      (3)   The Board of Supervisors may, upon application, waive the repayment
of all or some of the benefits.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 30.21 REQUIREMENTS FOR RECEIVING ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   An applicant must be 18 years of age and be lawfully in the county.
Exceptions to this policy are married individuals or those emancipated through
the legal process of the court system.
   (B)   A needy person not needed in the home to care for minor children shall
immediately register for employment with Workforce Development Center of Iowa.
A refusal or failure to actively seek employment, refusal or failure to accept
reasonable employment offered shall disqualify the needy person from receiving
future benefits. The needy person may be required to provide reasonable proof
that he or she is actively seeking employment.
   (C)   Falsification of information required for application or failure to
provide information as requested shall result in a denial of assistance and
suspension of eligibility for 180 days.
   (D)   An applicant or adult household member voluntarily quitting employment
will be suspended from general assistance for 90 days. Involuntary termination
may be verified with the employer. A determination will be made off the
employer’s record of termination.
   (E)   An applicant or adult household member with a mental or physical
disability may be required to provide verification of the disability by medical
and/or other documentation.
   (F)   An applicant or adult household member must immediately apply for all
other assistance programs for which he or she may be eligible (food stamps,
FIP, SSI, Social Security, Medicaid, unemployment and the like) and pursue such
application with due diligence. Failure to apply for and pursue application
will result in a denial of assistance.
   (G)   Failure to follow through with state and/or federal programs which
results in a denial, reduction or termination of benefits shall result in a
denial of general assistance. Denial of general assistance shall be for the
same period of time the state and/ or federal program is denied, reduced or
terminated.
   (H)   Persons who cancel themselves from public assistance are not eligible
for general assistance.
   (I)   Any person, except for reasons not attributable to that person, who is
fired from his, her or their employment is not eligible for general assistance.
   (J)   Gross income available to the individual or household living unit
shall not equal or exceed 100% of poverty as provided yearly by the federal
government. Persons and/or households receiving state and/or federal benefits
are not eligible for general assistance.
   (K)    If the applicant is an honorably discharged war-time veteran or
eligible dependent, said applicant must apply for assistance through the
county’s Commission of Veteran Affairs. If said veteran or dependent has used
the maximum benefits allowed by the county’s Commission of Veteran Affairs and
is still in need of assistance, he or she may transfer to general assistance
with the amount of the county’s Commission of Veteran Affairs benefits received
being deducted from the maximum amount of general assistance.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 30.22 APPLICATION FOR ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   The Director of General Assistance during usual business hours will
provide applications for assistance. Completed applications must be submitted
to the Director during general assistance hours, upon forms provided by the
Director.
   (B)   If, because of undue hardship, an applicant cannot come to the County
Courthouse, the Director shall mail such person an application form. If the
applicant or the household is, or appears to be eligible for assistance from
any other federal, state or local source, the Director will immediately refer
the applicant to that source. It will be the obligation of the applicant to
immediately apply to that source and to diligently pursue the application as a
condition of being eligible for further assistance under this subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   It is the obligation of each person applying to establish his or
her eligibility for any category of general assistance and to prove his or her
need for any item of assistance. If requested, the person applying will provide
the Director with a verified statement of net worth (federal and state income
tax returns) for the past five years, medical reports, medical authorization
and anything else requested by the Director that pertains to the person’s
eligibility for assistance. The Director may also require, upon approval of the
Board of Supervisors, that the applicant submits to a physical or mental
examination to determine the applicant’s capacity for labor. The Director will
also accept anything that the applicant chooses to submit to establish his, her
or their eligibility or need (including statements or letters, medical reports,
bills for the current month’s utilities, shut-off notices, eviction notices and
other written documents as well as verbal statements of the applicant). The
Director will then proceed to conduct a reasonable investigation concerning the
applicant’s eligibility and needs.
      (2)   A copy of the applicant’s file, documentation and findings of the
Director will be made available to the applicant or to the applicant’s attorney
(release of information must accompany requests by attorneys).
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 30.23 INITIAL DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The Director will make an initial determination of the eligibility and
needs of the applicant within five working days of the receipt of the
application. Upon the determination, the Director shall notify the applicant by
telephone immediately, if possible, and within working days after that
determination, mail the applicant at the last address shown on the application,
by ordinary mail, the Director’s written decision showing the reason’s for the
determination and the statutes or ordinances applied, together with the
specific benefits and their amounts to which the applicant is entitled.
   (B)   If the Director cannot make the initial determination within five
working days, the Director will immediately inform the applicant, by telephone,
if possible, of the reasons why such determination cannot be made. The Director
shall, also, mail to the applicant, by ordinary mail, within days thereafter,
the Director’s written decision showing why such determination could not be
made.
   (C)   If an applicant has been previously found eligible, within the same
12-month period, the Director may not need to receive a new application, but
may proceed to a determination of whether or not current assistance is
warranted. Notice and mailing of such determination will be as provided above.
If an emergency and immediate need is present, the Director may verbally
authorize a supplier or vendor to furnish any item of relief for the benefit of
the applicant and the amount allowed for such benefit. The Director shall
inform the applicant and issue a written decision as provided above.
   (D)   Whenever an applicant is found eligible and entitled to relief the
Director shall proceed to provide the same and notify the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 30.24 APPEAL; HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   Every applicant, denied assistance, will be informed in writing
of the Director’s decision, and of the applicant’s right to appeal such
decision to the Board of Supervisors. The applicant will be informed:
         (a)   Of the method by which an appeal may be taken; and
         (b)   He or she may represent himself or herself, or may be
represented by an attorney, at the applicant’s expense.
      (2)   The Director shall receive any communication to the Director by or
on behalf of an applicant requesting appeal of the Director’s determination.
The Director shall schedule a time on the Board of Supervisors’ agenda (in
accordance with Iowa Code Chapter 21) at its next regular Board meeting;
provided that, such appeal shall not be heard sooner than five working days
after appeal is taken. The written appeal or communication must be submitted to
the Director within ten days of the Director’s determination. The appeal must
contain the applicant’s current address and telephone number and state the
reasons for the appeal. The applicant will be informed immediately, by
telephone, if possible, and by ordinary mail, of the date and time of the
hearing before the Board of Supervisors. The applicant and the applicant’s
attorney, upon written authorization, shall be granted access by the Director
to his or her relief case file if request is made.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Supervisors will hear the applicant’s appeal de
novo, at the time scheduled in the agenda, unless the applicant requests
continuance. The applicant will be permitted to present what ever evidence
desired in support of the appeal including testifying, having other witnesses
testify, offering documentary evidence and reasonable cross-examination of
other witnesses, if present. The technical rules of evidence will not apply.
The Board may set reasonable time limits for the presentation of evidence. The
applicant’s file will be admitted into evidence. The Board may question the
applicant. The Director will present the Board with the reasons for the
determination. The appeal will be tape-recorded. The hearing before the Board
will be at a closed meeting in accordance with Iowa Code Chapter 21, since the
confidential files of the applicant will be in evidence. When the Board
deliberates on the appeal, no other parties will be present.
      (2)   The County Board of Supervisors may decide to uphold the decision
of the General Assistance Director or Assistant, or under the provisions of the
Iowa Code § 252.37, “If a poor person, on application to the General Assistance
Director, is refused the required assistance, the applicant may appeal to the
Board of Supervisors, who, upon examination into the matter, may order the
Director to provide assistance, or it may direct specific assistance.
      (3)   The county’s Board of Supervisors shall make a decision on the
appeal within five working days. The county’s Board of Supervisors decision
shall be only on the basis of the evidence submitted before the county’s Board
of Supervisors. The applicant shall be informed within four working days
thereafter by the county’s Board of Supervisor’s mailing its written decision
to the applicant by ordinary mail. The decision shall state the reasons for the
action, together with any statutes or ordinances and manual sections applied.
The county’s Board of Supervisors decision shall also state that an appeal may
be taken from the County Board of Supervisor’s determination, as provided
below, and the method by which such appeal may be taken.
      (4)   An appeal to the District Court shall be allowed by the applicant
from the Board’s decision within the time limits and by the manner and
procedures established under the state’s Administrative Procedures Act, Iowa
Code Chapter 17A.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 30.25 ACTIONS TAKEN BY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS.
   In the event that the county’s Board of Supervisors, in reviewing the
actions of the Director or Assistant of General Assistance, questions any
allowance of assistance benefits allowed by the Director or Assistant, it shall
take no action concerning such allowance until it conducts a hearing. This
hearing, the reasons for it, and notification to the applicant shall be given
in the same manner as if the applicant had taken an appeal. This hearing shall
proceed in the same manner as an appeal from the Director or Assistant.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 30.26 ADDITIONAL AND STATE PROVISIONS.
   When general assistance benefits have been provided, Iowa Code § 252.13 is
applicable for repayment of said benefits to the county and the applicant will
acknowledge the same in writing. Recipients of relief may further be required
to work for the county as a condition to receipt of such benefits as required
in Iowa Code §§ 252.27 and 252.42. Benefits provided a recipient may be a
further claim against the homestead of a recipient and a claim in probate, as
provided by Iowa Code § 252.13.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER AND SEWERS
      
52.   SOLID WASTE; RECYCLING
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
Utility Permits
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Board of Supervisors; powers
   
50.04   County Engineer; administration
   
50.05   Authority to establish permits
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Wind energy, see
Chapter 153
UTILITY PERMITS
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to adopt provisions for the inspection and
regulation of utility line installations, including the issuance of permits and
the collection of inspection fees, and to provide penalties for the violation
of this subchapter in order to protect public safety, health and welfare.
(Ord. 10, passed 7-5-1994)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Includes a person, persons, company, corporation or governmental
entity desirous of placing a utility line on or under the county’s secondary
road system.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The Guthrie County Board of Supervisors.
   COUNTY. Guthrie County, Iowa.
   UTILITY LINE. A telecommunications, electric, gas, water or sewer line.
(Ord. 10, passed 7-5-1994)
§ 50.03 BOARD OF SUPERVISORS; POWERS.
   An applicant shall not place a utility line on or under the secondary road
system without a utility permit issued by the Board of Supervisors. An
applicant shall not place a utility line on or under the secondary road system,
which violates a utility permit issued by the Board of Supervisors. All
jurisdiction and control over the issuance of a utility permit shall rest with
the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 10, passed 7-5-1994) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 COUNTY ENGINEER; ADMINISTRATION.
   The County Engineer may make such rules and regulations, not inconsistent
with this subchapter, as are necessary to carry out the administration of this
subchapter. The utility permit form, and all amendments thereto, shall be
adopted by the Board of Supervisors by resolution.
(Ord. 10, passed 7-5-1994)
§ 50.05 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH PERMITS.
   The Board of Supervisors is empowered to establish and require a utility
permit under the authority of Iowa Code Chapters 306, 318, 320, 331, 477, 478,
479, 479A and 480.
(Ord. 10, passed 7-5-1994)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §§
50.01 through
50.05 of this chapter is a county infraction under Iowa Code § 331.307,
punishable by a civil penalty of $100 for each violation. Each day that a
violation occurs or is permitted to exist by the applicant constitutes a
separate offense.
(Ord. 10, passed 7-5-1994)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
   
51.01   Private water wells
   
51.02   Lake Panorama On-Site Management District
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 PRIVATE WATER WELLS.
   Iowa Administrative Code Chapter 38, in its entirety, shall henceforth be
the private water well rules of the county.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-30-1988)
§ 51.02 LAKE PANORAMA ON-SITE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Title. The title of this section is “Lake Panorama On-Site Management
District Ordinance”.
   (B)   Application. The procedure in this section shall be used by the Board
of Supervisors of the county for the establishment and operation of on-site
wastewater management districts in the county.
   (C)   Purpose. The purposes of this section are:
      (1)   To ensure the proper oper ation of all existing and future on-site
wastewater treatment systems in order to protect the public health, water
quality and the environment; and
      (2)   To allow for the use of the more high maintenance, innovative or
alternative on-site wastewater treatment systems where “conventional” on-site
systems are not appropriate.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONVENTIONAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM. Any septic tank with a non-
pressurized subsurface soil absorption field or bed.
      ON-SITE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS. Any works or facilities used to
collect, treat, reclaim or dispose of domestic wastewater on-site from
individual dwellings or buildings or a cluster of two or more dwellings or
buildings.
   (E)   District boundaries. The on-site wastewater management district will
be responsible for the supervision and approval of the design, construction,
repair, operation and maintenance of all on-site wastewater treatment systems
within the Lake Panorama Development.
   (F)   Extension of district boundaries. The boundaries of the on-site
wastewater management district established on passage of this ordinance may be
extended by amending division (E) above. An extension need not be contiguous to
the existing district.
   (G)   Administration. Upon establishment of the district, the county’s Board
of Health shall assume the powers and duties provided under this section. The
county’s Board of Health shall appoint a five- member Administrative Committee
(three of which shall be selected by the Lake Panorama Association Board of
Directors). The Administrative Committee shall operate the district within the
Board of Health guidelines. The county’s Sanitarian shall serve as secretary to
the Administrative Committee.
   (H)   Management program.
      (1)   The administration shall develop a detailed management program for
the district.
      (2)   The administration shall also develop reasonable rules and
regulations necessary to implement the purposes of this section.
      (3)   The adoption of the management program and the rules and
regulations shall be by resolution of the county’s Board of Supervisors.
   (I)   Powers and duties. The administration may:
      (1)   Collect, treat, reclaim and dispose of wastewater without grading
the water quality within or outside of the district;
      (2)   Acquire, design, own, construct, install, operate, monitor, inspect
and maintain on-site wastewater treatment systems within the district in a
manner which will protect public health, promote water quality, prevent
pollution and abate nuisances;
      (3)   Employ and terminate the employment of those employees necessary to
operate and maintain the detailed management plan and contract with any firm or
agency to perform necessary services; and
      (4)   Incur indebtedness, and impose and collect assessments for
improvements where appropriate, as provided by state law, to implement the
purposes of this section.
   (J)   Inspections. The administration’s authorized representative may, with
the consent of the owner or occupant, enter any premises in the district on
which a wastewater treatment system is located for the purpose of inspecting
the system, securing samples or records or making repairs. If the owner or
occupant refuses admittance thereto, or if, prior to such refusal, the
authorized representative demonstrates the necessity for a warrant, the
authorized representative may make application under oath or affirmation to the
District Court for issuance of a search warrant.
   (K)   Costs. The administration may establish a service fee schedule to
recover the operating and administration costs of the district. Failure to pay
a service fee when due shall create a lien against the property as provided by
state law.
(Ord. 2, passed 10-14-1980) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of a rule adopted pursuant to §
51.02 of this chapter shall constitute a simple misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2, passed 10-14-1980)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE; RECYCLING
Section
Mandatory Recycling
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Findings
   
52.03   Definitions
   
52.04   Separation and storage
   
52.05   Collection
   
52.06   Vehicles used for collection
 
   
52.99   Penalty
MANDATORY RECYCLING
§ 52.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish mandatory recycling of
corrugated cardboard, mixed paper and tin/plastic/glass food and beverage
containers by commercial establishments and schools and require these materials
to be recycled through the county’s recycling program.
(Ord. 11A, passed - -1998)
§ 52.02 FINDINGS.
   It is found that the state has mandated waste volume reduction goals for all
landfill planning areas as stated in Iowa Code § 455D.3. Pursuant to achieving
these goals, the Board finds the need to require commercial establishments and
schools within the county’s Landfill Planning Area to separate all corrugated
cardboard, mixed paper and tin/plastic/glass from their other refuse and
recycle it through the county recycling program.
(Ord. 11A, passed - -1998)
§ 52.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any premises engaged in retail trade or sale of
goods. Expressly included are all restaurants and taverns, all industrial or
manufacturing businesses and all types of offices.
   CORRUGATED CARDBOARD. Paperboard or cardboard boxes constructed in a fluted
manner. Expressly excluded is cardboard that has become soiled.
   MIXED PAPER. Any combination of junk mail, colored or white office paper,
typing paper, writing paper, photocopy paper, computer paper, scratch paper/
Post-it notes, tabulating and index cards and envelopes. Expressly excluded is
carbon paper, newspaper, magazine, books, file folders and any materials that
have been soiled.
   TIN/PLASTIC/GLASS. Any food or beverage container composed of steel,
aluminum, #1 PETE plastic, #2 HDPE plastic or flint, green or brown glass.
(Ord. 11A, passed - -1998)
§ 52.04 SEPARATION AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Commercial establishments and schools are required to separate their
recyclable materials from their other refuse and store them in the following
manner.
      (1)   Corrugated cardboard. Material shall be broken down and contents
removed and stored for collection in such a manner that it remains dry and
clean.
      (2)   Mixed paper. Material may be commingled, and shall be stored in
such a manner that it remains dry and clean.
      (3)   Tin/plastic/glass food containers. Material shall be rinsed of all
food and beverage residue with all lids removed and discarded.
   (B)   To further the ability of the county to reduce the volume of solid
waste for landfill planning areas, corrugated cardboard will be prohibited from
the County Landfill or Solid Waste Transfer Station and will be processed
through the recycling center as a recyclable product.
(Ord. 11A, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 COLLECTION.
   It is the responsibility of each commercial establishment and school to
arrange for collection and transportation of their recyclable materials to the
County Recycling Transfer Station or to the nearest recycling drop-off box.
(Ord. 11A, passed - -1998)
§ 52.06 VEHICLES USED FOR COLLECTION.
   Vehicles used for the transportation of recyclable materials shall be leak-
proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction. Such vehicles shall be
cleaned regularly to prevent contamination of recyclable materials. Vehicles
shall be maintained in good repair.
(Ord. 11A, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of §§
52.01 through
52.06 of this chapter shall be guilty of a simple misdemeanor.
(Ord. 11A, passed - -1998)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Speed limits
All-Terrain and Off-Road Utility Vehicles
   
70.15   Purpose
   
70.16   Definitions
   
70.17   Operation on roadways
   
70.18   Unlawful operation
   
70.19   Registration requirements and other conditions
   
70.20   Exempt vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Guthrie County, Iowa Speed Restriction Ordinance”.
   (B)   Purpose. This section empowers the Board of Supervisors to establish
speed restriction on secondary roads and the County Conservation Parkway road
system within the county.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The Guthrie County, Iowa, Board of Supervisors.
      COUNTY CONSERVATION PARKWAYS. Those parkways defined as county
conservation parkways under Iowa Code § 306.3.
      SECONDARY ROAD. Those roads under county jurisdiction.
   (D)   Authority.
      (1)   The County Board recognizes that the Iowa Code sets speed limits on
all roads and streets with respect to surfacing type and use.
      (2)   However, Iowa Code § 321.285(5) does provide for setting speed
limits not listed in the code.
   (E)   Special speed restrictions. The Board has determined on the basis of
engineering and traffic investigations that the speed limits at the following
secondary road locations are greater than is reasonable and proper under the
conditions found to exist. The Board, therefore, determines and declares the
reasonable and proper speed limit at the following secondary road locations,
effective when appropriate signs giving notice of the speed limits are erected
by the Board.
      (1)   Special 25 mph speed zones. A speed in excess of 25 mph shall be
unlawful on any of the following designated roads or parts thereof:
         (a)   Tank Avenue, from Monteith Road (F-51) southward to 270th
Street; and
         (b)   270th Street, from Tank Avenue eastward to Wagon Road (P-28).
      (2)   Special 35 mph speed zones. A speed in excess of 35 mph shall be
unlawful on any of the following designated roads or parts thereof: Tank
Avenue, from 270th Street southward 250 feet.
(Ord. 25, passed 4-10-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
ALL-TERRAIN AND OFF-ROAD UTILITY VEHICLES
§ 70.15 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter shall set forth regulations regarding the operation of all-
terrain vehicles and/or off-road utility vehicles on county roadways designated
by the county’s Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 36, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 70.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. As defined by Iowa Code § 321I.1, a motorized vehicle
with not less than three and not more than six non-highway tires that is
limited in engine displacement to less than 1,200 cubic centimeters and in
total dry weight to less than 1,200 and that has a seat or saddle designed to
be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
   DESIGNATED RIDING AREA. As defined by Iowa Code § 321I.1, an all-terrain
vehicle riding area on any public land or public ice under the jurisdiction of
the state’s Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) that has been designated by
the IDNR for all-terrain vehicle use.
   DESIGNATED RIDING TRAIL. As defined by Iowa Code § 321I.1, an all-terrain
vehicle riding trail on any public land, private land or public ice that has
been designated by the state or the county for all-terrain vehicle use.
   OFF-ROAD UTILITY VEHICLE.
      (1)   As defined by Iowa Code § 321I.1, means a motorized vehicle with
not less than four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized
tracks that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, which is not intended
to be straddled by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for
control.
      (2)   OFF-ROAD UTILITY VEHICLES include the following vehicles.
         (a)   OFF-ROAD UTILITY VEHICLE, TYPE 1. An off-road utility vehicle
with a total dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or
less.
         (b)   OFF-ROAD UTILITY VEHICLE, TYPE 2. An off-road utility vehicle,
other than a Type 1 off-road utility vehicle, with a total dry weight of 2,000
pounds or less, and a width of 65 inches or less.
         (c)   OFF-ROAD UTILITY VEHICLE, TYPE 3. An off-road utility vehicle
with a total dry weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width more than 65
inches, or both.
   PUBLIC ICE. As defined by Iowa Code § 321I.1, any frozen, navigable waters
within the territorial limits of the state and the frozen marginal river areas
adjacent to the state, other than farm ponds, that are under the jurisdiction
of the Natural Resource Commission of the IDNR.
   PUBLIC LAND. As defined by Iowa Code § 321I.1, land owned by the federal
government, the state or political subdivisions of the state and land acquired
or developed for public recreation pursuant to Iowa Code § 321I.8.
   ROADWAY. As defined by Iowa Code § 321I.1, that portion of a highway
improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
(Ord. 36, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 70.17 OPERATION ON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   A registered all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle may be
operated on secondary roadways, including Class A gravel roadways, in the
county pursuant to the restrictions in this subchapter and those restrictions
imposed by the Code of Iowa. All-terrain vehicles and off-road utility
operation is limited to roadways lying outside the city limits of any
incorporated city which does not have an ordinance or other regulation in
effect allowing such operations.
   (B)   A person shall not operate an all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility
vehicle on secondary roadways in the county unless the operator has a valid
driver’s license and is at least 16 years of age. An operator under 18 years of
age shall be required to take and pass an IDNR-approved ATV education course
and must carry a valid safety certificate while operating the vehicle as proof
that the IDNR- approved ATV education course was successfully completed.
Operation is only permitted on the roadway or shoulder, not in the ditch or the
area between the edge of the shoulder to the bottom of the ditch.
   (C)   All all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicles will obey all
“rules of the road” as set forth in Iowa Code Chapter 321.
(Ord. 36, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   A person shall not operate an all-terrain vehicle and/or off-road utility
vehicle under any of the following conditions:
   (A)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable and/or proper under
existing circumstances;
   (B)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to:
      (1)   Endanger any person;
      (2)   Cause injury or damage to person or property; or
      (3)   Create unnecessary skidding or sliding or cause any wheel or wheels
to unnecessarily lose contact with the ground.
   (C)   Without the following equipment:
      (1)   Lit headlight(s) and taillight(s);
      (2)   Functioning brakes, brake lights and speedometer;
      (3)   Rearview mirror; and
      (4)   An effective muffling device that complies with the standards and
procedures required by Iowa Code § 321I.12.
   (D)   Without wearing a properly adjusted and fastened seatbelt if the all-
terrain or off-road utility vehicle is so equipped;
   (E)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock;
   (F)   On any public land, public ice or designated riding trail in violation
of official signs prohibiting such operation;
   (G)   In any park, wildlife area, preserve, refuge or game management area,
except on designated riding areas identified by the IDNR or designated riding
trails identified by the county’s Conservation Board;
   (H)   Any portion of a meandered stream or the bed of a non-meandered stream
which has been identified as a navigable stream or river by the IDNR and which
is covered by water. This division (H) does not apply to designated riding
areas or designated riding trails, construction vehicles engaged in lawful
activity and/or the operation of all-terrain vehicles on ice;
   (I)   Upon an operating railroad right-of-way. An all-terrain vehicle may be
driven directly across a railroad right-of-way only at established crossings;
   (J)   With more persons on the vehicle than it was designed to carry. This
division (J) does not apply to a person who operates an all-terrain vehicle or
off-road utility vehicle as part of a farm operation as defined in Iowa Code §
352.2;
   (K)   On any designated riding area or trail unless the trail is designated
by signs as open to all-terrain and off-road utility vehicle operation;
   (L)   (1)   With a firearm in the person’s possession while operating or
riding on an all-terrain vehicle unless it is unloaded and enclosed in a
carrying case, subject to the following exceptions:
         (a)   The person is riding on or operating an all-terrain vehicle on
land owned or possessed by the person and the person’s conduct is otherwise
lawful; and
         (b)   The person is riding on or operating an all-terrain vehicle on
land that is not owned or possessed by the person and all of the following
apply:
            1.   The loaded firearm is a pistol or revolver and is secured in a
retention holster upon the person;
            2.   The person possesses and displays to a peace officer upon
demand a valid permit to carry weapons which has been issued to the person; and
            3.   The person’s conduct is within the limits of the permit to
carry weapons.
      (2)   A non-ambulatory person may carry an uncased and unloaded firearm
while operating or riding on an all-terrain vehicle.
   (M)   While discharging a firearm as the operator or passenger, except a
non-ambulatory person may discharge a firearm from an all-terrain vehicle while
lawfully hunting if the person is not operating or riding on a moving all-
terrain vehicle;
   (N)   Under the age of 16;
   (O)   Without a valid driver’s license;
   (P)   Without a valid safety certificate on board as proof of successful
completion of an IDNR- approved ATV education course if the operator is younger
than 16 years of age;
   (Q)   On private property without permission of the owner; and/or
   (R)   In any area designated as a native grass or wildflower planting area.
(Ord. 36, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS AND OTHER CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Individuals who operate on designated secondary roadways in the county
must register the all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle with IDNR.
   (B)   The following conditions apply.
      (1)   The owner of each all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle
shall be required to provide proof of ownership, including, but not limited to,
bill of sale, IDNR registration or registration from the appropriate out-of-
state authority and proof of liability insurance as required by Iowa Code §§
321.20B and 321A.21.
      (2)   All-terrain vehicles or off-road utility vehicles registered in the
state are required to display their current registration decal and carry their
certificate onboard.
      (3)   All-terrain vehicles or off-road utility vehicles registered in
another state are required to also display a valid IDNR user permit in addition
to displaying a current registration decal and carrying the certificate
onboard.
(Ord. 36, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 EXEMPT VEHICLES.
   Registration shall not be required for:
   (A)   All-terrain vehicles and/or off-road utility vehicles which are used
exclusively as farm implements;
   (B)   All-terrain or off-road utility vehicles owned by the United States,
this state or another state, or by a governmental subdivision thereof, and used
for enforcement, search and rescue, or official purposes, but not for
recreational or commercial purposes; and/or
   (C)   All-terrain vehicles used in accordance with Iowa Code § 321.234A(1)
(a).
(Ord. 36, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of §
70.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a simple misdemeanor and subject to a
fine as set forth in the current state compendium of scheduled violations and
scheduled fines.
   (C)   Violation of §§
70.15 through
70.20 of this chapter shall constitute a simple misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine of $65 to $625, plus the applicable court surcharge and costs and/or up to
30 days in jail.
(Ord. 25, passed 4-10-2007; Ord. 36, passed 1-21-2020)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
CHAPTER 90: HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Cleanup required
   
90.04   Costs; liability for cleanup
   
90.05   Notifications
   
90.06   Authority
   
90.07   Damages, losses and the like
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety and welfare from
the leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated
to establish responsibility of the treatment, removal and cleanup of hazardous
substance spills within the county.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-30-2008)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEANUP. Actions necessary to contain, collect, control, identify, analyze,
cleanup, treat, disperse, remove or dispose of a hazardous substance.
   HAZARDOUS CONDITION. Any situation involving the actual, imminent or
probable spillage, leakage or release of a hazardous substance onto the land,
into a water of the state or into the atmosphere which creates an immediate or
potential danger to the public health or safety or to the environment. For
purposes of this definition, a site which is a hazardous waste or hazardous
substance disposal site as defined in Iowa Code § 455B.411, subs. 4, as
amended, is a HAZARDOUS CONDITION.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance or mixture of substances that presents a
danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not limited to, a
substance that is toxic, corrosive or flammable, or that is an irritant or that
generates pressure through decomposition, heat or other means. HAZARDOUS
SUBSTANCE may include any hazardous waste identified or listed by the
Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency under the
Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 82 et seq., as amended by the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq., or any toxic pollutant listed under § 307 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 36 et seq., as amended to 1-1-1977, or any
hazardous substance designed under § 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 36 et seq., as amended to 1-1-1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act, being 9 U.S.C. §§ 5101 et seq.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. A person who at any time produces, handles, stores,
uses, transports, refines or disposes of a hazardous substance, the release of
which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers and any other
person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous condition occurs,
whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is operating under a lease,
contract or other agreement with the legal owner of the hazardous substance.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-30-2008)
§ 90.03 CLEANUP REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection,
dumping, spilling, leaking or release of a hazardous substance, so that the
hazardous substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the
environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including
ground waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied
by a cleanup, as defined in §
90.02 of this chapter, as rapidly as feasible to an acceptable, safe condition.
The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the responsible person.
   (B)   If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to begin in a
reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the incident,
the county may, by an authorized officer such as the Emergency Management
Coordinator (EMC), give reasonable notice, based on the character of the
hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for accomplishing the
cleanup and stating that the county will proceed to procure cleanup services
and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup if
the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the event that it is
determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of the present
danger to the public health, safety and welfare, then no notice shall be
required and the county may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the County Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the county to finance, the EMC shall report to the Board of
Supervisors and immediately seek any state or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-30-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 COSTS; LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP.
   The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the county for all of the
following:
   (A)   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the county as a result of the
failure of the responsible person to clean up a hazardous substance involved in
a hazardous condition;
   (B)   The reasonable costs incurred by the county to evacuate people from
the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the responsible person;
   (C)   The reasonable damages to the county for injury to, destruction of or
loss of county property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction or loss;
   (D)   The reasonable costs incurred by the county in containing and/or
controlling a hazardous condition; and
   (E)   The costs referenced above shall be as determined by local fire chief
for: manpower, apparatus, ambulance/rescue squad, command vehicle or utility
truck, supplies and outside services, mileage and decontamination, repairs,
replacement, maintenance of equipment, apparatus or supplies, plus a reasonable
administrative fee. It is unlawful for any responsible person to fail to pay a
billing for such services within 30 days of receipt.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-30-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The responsible person or representative of the responsible person
shall immediately notify the County Sheriff’s Office of any release of a
hazardous substance that may or has, in fact, spread beyond the confines of the
responsible person’s property, thereby posing the possible or actual adverse
effect of any population, public or private property, including roads, streets
or alleys and their rights-of-way, or to the environment. The County Sheriff’s
Office shall immediately notify the County Emergency Coordinator, who will
notify the applicable emergency response services and the state’s Department of
Natural Resources.
   (B)   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
County Sheriff’s Office, which shall then notify the County Emergency
Management Coordinator, who will notify the applicable emergency response
services and the Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-30-2008)
§ 90.06 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   If the circumstances reasonably so require, a law enforcement officer
or an authorized representative of the Fire Department may:
      (1)   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition; and
      (2)   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
   (B)   No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer or
authorized representative of the Fire Department issued under this section.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-30-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 DAMAGES, LOSSES AND THE LIKE.
   The county shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries
or losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the county is the
responsible person, as defined herein.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-30-2008)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
[Reserved]
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Drug Paraphernalia
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Use or possession
   
130.03   Delivering, possessing or manufacturing
   
130.04   Legislative intent
 
   
130.99   Penalty
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means all equipment, products and materials of any
kind which are used, intended for use or designed for use, in manufacturing,
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, concealing, containing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance, as defined by
Iowa Code Chapter 124, as amended. It shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Growing kits. Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of
plant which is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can
be derived;
      (2)   Processing kits. Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled substances;
      (3)   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      (4)   Dilutents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      (5)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or otherwise cleaning or refining of,
marijuana;
      (6)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use and designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body;
      (7)   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material, such
as marijuana cigarette, which has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         (f)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (g)   Chamber pipes;
         (h)   Carburetor pipes;
         (i)   Electric pipes;
         (j)   Air-driven pipes;
         (k)   Chillums;
         (l)   Bongs; and
         (m)   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (8)   Containers. Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers
used, intended for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances; and
      (9)   Storage containers. Containers and other objects used, intended for
use or designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances.
   (B)   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or
other authority shall consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
      (1)   Statement by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      (2)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object , under any state or federal laws in relation to any controlled
substance, as defined in Iowa Code Chapter 124, as amended;
      (3)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of Iowa Code Chapter 124, as amended;
      (4)   The proximity of the object to a controlled substance, as defined
in Iowa Code Chapter 124, as amended;
      (5)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance as defined
in Iowa Code Chapter 124, as amended;
      (6)   Direct of circumstantial evidence of an owner, or anyone in control
of the object, delivering it to any person whom he or she knows, or should
reasonably know, may use the object to facilitate a violation of this
subchapter. The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of an object, as
to a direct violation of this subchapter shall not prevent a finding that the
object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      (7)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      (8)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explains or
depicts its use;
      (9)   National or local advertising concerning its use;
      (10)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      (11)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items in the county, such as licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      (12)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
objects to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (13)   The existence and scope of any legitimate use for the object in
the county; and
      (14)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(Ord. 14, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 130.02 USE OR POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or to possess drug paraphernalia
to manufacture, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human
body a controlled substance, as defined in Iowa Code Chapter 124, as amended.
However, it shall not be unlawful to possess drug paraphernalia for the purpose
of use as evidence or for use in education.
(Ord. 14, passed 2-25-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DELIVERING, POSSESSING OR MANUFACTURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver, possess or manufacture drug
paraphernalia knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should know,
that it will be used to manufacture, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise be
used to introduce into the human body a controlled substance, as defined in
Iowa Code Chapter 124, as amended. However, it shall not be unlawful to possess
or deliver drug paraphernalia for the purpose of use as evidence or for use in
education.
(Ord. 14, passed 2-25-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose and intent of the county’s Board of Supervisors to
promote the health, safety and morals of the citizens of the county. The use or
administration of controlled substances is clearly illegal. The banning of all
objects in close connection and adapted for the use of controlled substances
should also be controlled because of the lack of social or practical purposes
of such objects or paraphernalia, whether the use be by adults or minors.
   (B)   It is also strong public policy to protect children from the
unsupervised exposure and familiarity of drug paraphernalia. In addition to
education about the items in school and at home, it is also essential to
discourage open use, possession, manufacture and commerce of these drug related
items.
(Ord. 14, passed 2-25-1997)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
130.01 through
130.04 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a simple
misdemeanor and shall be fined in an amount as set by the County Council from
time to time or imprisoned for not more than 30 days for each offense.
(Ord. 14, passed 2-25-1997)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   UNSAFE AND DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
153.   WIND ENERGY
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: UNSAFE AND DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
   
150.01   Building Official; responsibilities
   
150.02   Definition
   
150.03   Notice to owner
   
150.04   Posting of signs
   
150.05   Right to demolish
   
150.06   Costs
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 BUILDING OFFICIAL; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Building Official shall be responsible for the enforcement of this
chapter. The Board may either appoint a person to be the Building Official or
designate some other officer to carry out the duties of the Building Official.
(Ord. passed 11-17-1977)
§ 150.02 DEFINITION.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are structurally UNSAFE or not
provided with adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are
otherwise dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use
constitute a hazard to safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence or abandonment, as specified
in this chapter, are, for the purpose of this chapter, UNSAFE BUILDINGS. All
such UNSAFE BUILDINGS are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be
abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with the
procedure specified in §§
150.03, 150.04, 150.05 and 150.06 of this chapter.
   (B)   SUBSTANDARD OR UNSAFE BUILDING shall mean any structure or mobile home
meeting any or all the following criteria:
      (1)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof likely to
fall, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (2)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions are judged to
be unsafe;
      (3)   Whenever, to protect the public health, the following are not met:
         (a)   The structure shall be maintained in such condition that it will
exclude moisture and rodents;
         (b)   The plumbing shall provide satisfactory water supply, drainage,
venting and operation of fixtures so as to meet minimum health standards; and/
or
         (c)   Water and sewer connections will be made with such facilities as
are reasonably available through the city, county or state, if it is determined
that other conditions exist which are hazardous to the health and/or welfare of
any member of the community.
      (4)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (5)   Whenever the building structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50%
damage or deterioration of its non- supporting members, enclosing or outside
walls or coverings;
      (6)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children;
         (b)   A harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons; or
         (c)   As to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of
committing unlawful or immoral acts.
      (7)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purpose, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined to be unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation or in such condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (8)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-restrictive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined to be a fire or
health hazard; and
      (9)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Ord. passed 11-17-1977)
§ 150.03 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   The Building Official shall examine or cause to be examined any
building or structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and,
if such is found to be an unsafe building, as defined in this chapter, the
Building Official shall give to the owner of such building or structure written
notice stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person
in charge of the building or premises, within 30 days or such reasonable time
as the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
portions thereof, and all such work shall be completed within one year from
date of notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the Building Official. If
necessary, such notice shall also require the building, structure or portion
thereof to be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs
and improvements are completed, inspected and approved by the Board of
Supervisors.
   (B)   Such notice shall be served in the manner provided for service of
original notice of the state rules of civil procedure upon the owner of record,
if he or she shall be found within the city limits. If he or she is not found
within the city limits such service may be made upon said owner by registered
mail or certified mail, the designated period within which said owner or person
in charge is required to comply with the order of the Building Official shall
begin as of the date he or she receives such notice. The notice shall state
that the person to whom the notice is directed shall have the right of hearing
before the Board, except in the case of immediate danger; provided, such
request is made at least three days before the deadline for the action is
requested.
(Ord. passed 11-17-1977)
§ 150.04 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   The Building Official shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read: “DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY BY ORDER OF BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS of GUTHRIE COUNTY, IOWA.” Such notice shall remain posted until the
required repairs, demolition or removal are completed. Such notice shall not be
removed without written permission of the Building Official and no person shall
enter the building, except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of
demolishing the building.
(Ord. passed 11-17-1977)
§ 150.05 RIGHT TO DEMOLISH.
   In case the owner shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate or to demolish and remove said building or structure or
portion thereof, the Board of Supervisors may order the owner of the building
prosecuted as a violater of the provisions of this chapter and may order the
Building Official to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A
statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Building
Official.
(Ord. passed 11-17-1977)
§ 150.06 COSTS.
   Costs incurred under §
150.05 of this chapter shall be paid out of the county’s General Treasury. Such
costs shall be charged to the owner of the premises involved and levied as a
special assessment against the land on which the building or structure is
located, and shall be collected in the manner provided for by Iowa Code §
364.12.
(Ord. passed 11-17-1977)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject,
upon conviction, to imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or a fine in an amount
as set by the County Council from time to time for each day of violation.
(Ord. passed 11-17-1977)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
Construction/Reconstruction of Roadways and Bridges
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Level of service
   
151.03   Design criteria
   
151.04   Roadways
   
151.05   Bridge and drainage structures
Rural Address System
   
151.20   Purpose
   
151.21   Definitions
   
151.22   Establishment
   
151.23   Extent of system
   
151.24   Implementation of system
   
151.25   Street signs
   
151.26   Emergency 911 house numbers
   
151.27   Individual number location markers
   
151.28   New structures
   
151.29   Maintenance of uniform rural addressing system
   
151.30   Special account; use
Snow and Ice Clearance; Maintenance
   
151.45   Purpose
   
151.46   Level of service
   
151.47   Sequence of service
   
151.48   Limitation of service
   
151.49   Emergency conditions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
CONSTRUCTION/RECONSTRUCTION OF ROADWAYS AND BRIDGES
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the county’s policy for the
construction and/or reconstruction of roads, construction and/or reconstruction
of bridges and other associated roadway and drainage features.
(Ord. 32, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 151.02 LEVEL OF SERVICE.
   The level of service shall generally follow existing status. In the event of
a level of service change, it shall be based on roadway classification, traffic
counts, pavement type, roadway geometrics and other data used in accepted
engineering design as established by the County Engineer, State Department of
Transportation and the Federal Highway Administration.
(Ord. 32, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 151.03 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   In implementation, this policy shall set the minimum design standards that
the county will follow in the construction or reconstruction of roads and
bridges. These criteria shall be based on accepted engineering practices and
standards established by the state’s Department of Transportation and the
Federal Highway Administration. The County Engineer shall assure the minimum
design standards established herein are adhered to in a uniform manner unless,
in his or her professional judgment, a deviation from standards is warranted.
Minimum design standards are not subject to discretionary enforcement. Any
deviations must be documented as unreasonable and or impossible to implement by
the County Engineer and/or the County Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 32, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 151.04 ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Paved routes.
      (1)   New pavement.
         (a)   New pavement shall be constructed with a 24-foot wide pavement
and granular shoulders. Intersections with non-paved roads shall have pavement
extended back onto the intersecting road a minimum of ten feet.
         (b)   Paved shoulders and edge line rumble stripes shall be
constructed if crash data warrants based on accepted HSIP and TSIP cost/benefit
analysis. Paving of shoulders may be constructed on the inside radius of
curves.
         (c)   Ground asphalt or concrete rumble strips shall be installed on
all approach stop situations.
      (2)   Reconstruction of pavement.
         (a)   Paved roads shall be reconstructed with a 22-foot wide pavement
or to the previous pavement width, whichever is greater with granular
shoulders.
         (b)   Ground asphalt or concrete rumble strips shall be installed on
all approach stop situations.
   (B)   Unpaved routes.
      (1)   Gravel roads.
         (a)   New construction of a gravel road shall have a minimum 26-foot
finished top, including shoulders.
         (b)   Reconstruction of a gravel road shall be to the previous width
prior to reconstruction.
      (2)   Class B and C roads. Class B and C roads will be built to the
minimums as outlined by Iowa Code.
(Ord. 32, passed 4-12-2016)
§ 151.05 BRIDGE AND DRAINAGE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Paved routes.
      (1)   Bridges on paved routes shall be built with a minimum width of 30
feet. Wider structures will be installed when there are issues relating to Iowa
DOT 30-foot six-inch wide standard bridge designs, traffic counts per the farm-
to-market design aids, oversized vehicles, pedestrian facilities, biking usage
or other issues where the additional width is felt to be warranted.
      (2)   Culverts under paved roads shall be concrete.
      (3)   Pipe culverts larger than 54 inches in diameter may be substituted
with reinforced box culverts.
      (4)   Design for drainage structures will be governed by accepted
hydraulic design standards. Input from IDNR, Corp of Engineers, Iowa DOT, NRCS
or USGS may impact the size and type of the structure to be placed.
      (5)   Drainage flows and livestock will use separate structures whenever
possible.
   (B)   Service Level A routes.
      (1)   Bridge width will normally be a minimum of 24 feet or to the
previous width, whichever is greater. Wider structures will be installed when
there are issues relating to Iowa DOT 24-foot six-inch wide standard bridge
designs, traffic counts per the farm-to-market design aids, oversized vehicles,
pedestrian facilities, biking usage or other issues where the additional width
is felt to be warranted.
      (2)   Culverts may be metal or concrete. Pipe culverts larger than 54
inches in diameter may be substituted with reinforced box culverts.
      (3)   Design for drainage structures will be governed by accepted
hydraulic design standards. Input from IDNR, Corp of Engineers, Iowa DOT, NRCS
or USGS may impact the size and type of the structure to be placed.
      (4)   Drainage flows and livestock will use separate structures whenever
possible.
   (C)   Service Level B and C routes. Bridge width will normally be a minimum
of 24 feet or to the previous width. Wider structures will be installed when
there are issues relating to Iowa DOT 24-foot six-inch wide standard bridge
designs, traffic counts per the farm-to-market design aids, oversized vehicles,
pedestrian facilities, biking usage or other issues where additional width is
felt to be warranted. Bridges may be replaced with low water crossings at the
discretion of the county’s Board of Supervisors.
   (D)   Entrance bridges.
      (1)   Any and all bridges/drainage structures that are fully or partially
in the road right-of-way that serve as entrances to private property from the
public roadway shall be considered the jurisdiction and responsibility of the
county.
      (2)   If a structure does not sit fully or partially in the road right-
of-way, it will be considered a private structure and not under the
jurisdiction of the county.
      (3)   Any and all previous agreements in violation of this clause are
rendered null and void.
      (4)   The current County Entrance Policy shall remain in effect.
(Ord. 32, passed 4-12-2016)
RURAL ADDRESS SYSTEM
§ 151.20 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter mandates the use of a uniform rural address system for
residents of the county in order to promote the convenience, safety and general
welfare of those residents and provides for a penalty.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-24-1992)
§ 151.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE MAP. The map used by the agency coordinating the uniform rural address
system in the county. Such a map shall indicate all addresses in the county
subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
   BUILDING. A roofed and/or walled structure built for permanent use.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, unincorporated association or
other entity.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract of land into separate lots or parcels
for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-24-1992)
§ 151.22 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Board shall, by resolution, establish the type of uniform rural address
system to be used in the county.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-24-1992)
§ 151.23 EXTENT OF SYSTEM.
   The uniform rural address system shall extend over the entire unincorporated
areas of the county, except for those areas already using the system of a
nearby incorporated area. Unincorporated areas using an address system not
attached to an incorporated area shall be subject to the provisions of this
subchapter. Any incorporated area, upon presentation of a written request for
from the governing body of such city to the Board, may also be included in the
uniform rural address system.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-24-1992)
§ 151.24 IMPLEMENTATION OF SYSTEM.
   The Board shall direct the E911 Coordinator to:
   (A)   Verify the accuracy of the base map that shall be used in the
assignment of addresses;
   (B)   Make all necessary corrections and updates to the map;
   (C)   Assign addresses in accordance with the system selected by the Board;
   (D)   Purchase sign assembly materials;
   (E)   Develop, print and distribute rural reference maps for rural emergency
providers, dispatchers, all county offices, emergency vehicles, the U.S. Post
Office and the general public;
   (F)   Notify post offices, rural emergency providers, dispatchers, emergency
vehicles, all county offices and all providers and offices located in adjacent
counties whereby such districts overlap into the county of the effective date
of the system and address assignments;
   (G)   Send notification to all residents affected by the system. Such
notification shall state:
      (1)   The date the system will take effect;
      (2)   An explanation of the system and how to use it; and
      (3)   The date the markers must be in place and where the markers shall
be placed.
   (H)   Distribute the marker.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-24-1992)
§ 151.25 STREET SIGNS.
   The E911 Coordinator shall supervise the installation of road identification
markers at each road intersection in the county whereby the provisions of the
subchapter apply. Such markers shall be in place on or before the date the
system takes effect.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-24-1992)
§ 151.26 EMERGENCY 911 HOUSE NUMBERS.
   (A)   Any house number existing at the time the provisions of this
subchapter take effect and that is different than the newly assigned number
shall be removed at the time the new number system is effective.
   (B)   The provision of this subchapter shall not apply to accessory
buildings, but may apply to such buildings located on a separate unit of
frontage if requested by the owner or proprietor.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-24-1992)
§ 151.27 INDIVIDUAL NUMBER LOCATION MARKERS.
   (A)   Buildings located within the Lake Panorama Development and Lake
Diamondhead Development shall have an individual address marker displayed. Such
markers shall be provided free of charge upon initial application. Replacement
markers shall be provided, but at a fee that covers the cost of the markers.
   (B)   Said fee shall be paid to the E911 Sign Operating Fund.
   (C)   Markers shall be placed as follows.
      (1)   The marker shall be provided by the E911 Coordinator.
      (2)   The marker shall be located at the primary entrance to the
residence.
      (3)   The marker shall be within five feet on either side of the entrance
and no more than five feet off the road right-of-way.
      (4)   The marker numbers shall be no less than three feet, nor more than
five feet, above ground
level.
      (5)   There shall be no obstruction of the marker between the marker and
the road.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-24-1992)
§ 151.28 NEW STRUCTURES.
   Every person erecting a building as set forth under the provisions of §
151.27 of this chapter, but after the date the uniform rural address system
becomes effective shall within seven days of commencement of construction,
notify the E911 Coordinator who shall, within 14 days, assign a number to such
structure. The provisions of §§
151.25 and
151.27 of this chapter shall be applicable to any person subject to the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-24-1992)
§ 151.29 MAINTENANCE OF UNIFORM RURAL ADDRESSING SYSTEM.
   The E911 Coordinator shall be responsible for the continued maintenance of
the uniform rural address system in the county. These duties shall include
assignment of all new addresses; installing replacement markers, replacing
street markers as needed; in conjunction with the County Engineer, updating
maps; issuing new maps on an annual basis to the agencies and persons provided
for in §
151.25(E) of this chapter; making periodic checks of the rural areas of the
county to ensure that the provisions of this subchapter are being complied
with; and any other duties necessary to ensure the continued maintenance of the
uniform rural address system of the county.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-24-1992)
§ 151.30 SPECIAL ACCOUNT; USE.
   All fines and other moneys available or paid to the county under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be placed in the E911 Sign Operating Fund
and credited to a special agency account to be designated as the uniform rural
address system account under the control of the E911 Service Board.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-24-1992)
SNOW AND ICE CLEARANCE; MAINTENANCE
§ 151.45 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the county’s policy and
level of service in respect to clearance of snow or ice and maintenance of its
secondary road system during the winter months, as provided in HF 2487, § 10
(2), Acts of the 63rd G.A., Second Session, and pursuant to the provisions of
Iowa Code § 309.67.
   (B)   This policy and level of service are to be implemented within the
amount of money budgeted for this service, and as contained in the county’s
secondary road budget as submitted to and approved by the state’s Department of
Transportation and adopted by the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-13-1984)
§ 151.46 LEVEL OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Clearance of snow or ice and maintenance of the secondary road system
during the winter months is primarily for the benefit of the local residents of
the county. Each storm has individual characteristics and must be dealt with
accordingly. The portion of the roadway improved for travel will have upon it
snow and ice in a compacted condition. These conditions may be continuous, or
they may be more concentrated on hills, in valleys, curves and/or
intersections. The county’s existing snow removal equipment will be utilized
for this purpose. All clearance of snow and ice, sanding, salting and other
maintenance respecting winter conditions shall be accomplished within the
amount of money budgeted for this service.
   (B)   The entire width of that portion of the road improved for travel may
not be cleared of snow, ice, compacted snow and ice or frost. Snow cleared from
that part of the roadway improved for travel shall be placed on or in the
adjacent shoulder, ditch or right-of-way. Snow can be expected to accumulate
adjacent to the traveled portion to the extent that a motorist’s sight distance
to both the left and right may be greatly reduced or impaired. The snow removed
from intersections will be piled in its corners in piles of unequal height. The
line of sight, sight distance or visibility of motorists approaching these
intersections may be greatly reduced or impaired. The county shall not be
responsible for snow pushed or otherwise placed on the roadway or shoulder by
others. Motorists shall drive their vehicles during these conditions with
additional caution and watchfulness, especially in respect to the surface of
the roadway, and reduced or impaired visibility, and are advised to reduce
their speed at least 25 mph below that legally permitted or advised under
normal conditions.
   (C)   In respect bo roadways that have only one lane open, further extreme
watchfulness and caution should be exercised by the motorist, and their speed
should not exceed ten mph. During these conditions, no additional warning or
regulatory signs will be placed that warn of impaired sight distances,
visibility at intersections, road blockages, one-lane conditions or that the
road surface is slick or slippery or what the advised speed should be.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-13-1984)
§ 151.47 SEQUENCE OF SERVICE.
   In the implementation of snow and ice removal and other maintenance of the
county’s secondary road system during the winter months, the County Engineer,
or his or her designee, shall select the actual sequence of roads to be cleared
as provided for in this section, and shall determine when drifting, wind
velocity and additional snow or snowstorms require that the snow removal
equipment be removed from the roadway, or that additional clearance of paved
routes be accomplished prior to the clearance of gravel and dirt roads.
   (A)   Paved routes.
      (1)   The initial effort will be to get all routes open to one-lane
traffic as soon as possible.
      (2)   After one-lane travel is possible, subsequent snow removal will be
carried on during normal working hours.
      (3)   The truck mounted snow plows and spreaders will not be in operation
between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. The trucks may be called off the
road if snow and/or blowing snow reduces visibility to hazardous working
conditions, in the professional judgment of the Engineer or his or her
delegated representative.
      (4)   When required, due to drifting snow, motor graders may be used to
keep the paved roads open and the opening of gravel roads may be delayed.
      (5)   It is not the policy of the county to provide a “dry” pavement
condition.
      (6)   After roads have been plowed as provided in this section,
intersections, hills and curves may have placed on them salt, sand or other
abrasive. These intersections, hills and curves will not be re-sanded, re-
salted or have other abrasives replaced on them between snowstorms. This
sequence of service shall be performed only between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
5:00 p.m. each day, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays observed
by county employees.
   (B)   Unpaved roads.
      (1)   The initial effort will be to get all routes opened to one-lane
traffic as soon as possible after a storm has passed.
      (2)   After one-lane travel is possible, subsequent snow removal will be
carried on during normal working hours.
      (3)   Motor graders and/or truck plows will not normally be in operation
between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Gravel roads may not be plowed if
the wind is causing continual drifting.
      (4)   Snow may not be removed from dirt roads or those designated as
Level B.
   (C)   Private drives. The county will not clear snow from private drives.
Normal snow removal operations may result in snow being deposited in private
drives. Snow from private drives shall not be
placed on the roadway or shoulders. The county shall not replace or repair
mailboxes destroyed or damaged during snow removal operations. There is no time
limit after a snowstorm in which any of the above sequence of clearance, on
paved or unpaved roads, shall take place.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-13-1984)
§ 151.48 LIMITATION OF SERVICE.
   The policy and level of service provided for in this subchapter shall not
include the performance of the following services:
   (A)   Sanding, salting or placing of other abrasives upon the roadway that
are slick, slippery and dangerous due to the formation of frost;
   (B)   Sanding, salting or placing other abrasives upon paved roadways due to
freezing precipitation that occurs outside the county’s usual working hours;
   (C)   Placing of additional warning or regulatory signs warning of impaired
sight distances, visibility at intersections, road blockages, one-lane
conditions or that the road surface is slick or slippery, or what the advised
speed should be;
   (D)   Sanding, salting or placing abrasives upon any road, except for paved
roads; and
   (E)   Re-sanding or re-salting for freezing and thawing between snowstorms.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-13-1984)
§ 151.49 EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The sequence of service may be suspended during “emergency”
conditions. An “emergency” condition shall be considered as one where a loss of
life is probable, where a serious injury has occurred, or where extensive loss
of property is imminent. These conditions should be verified through the
Sheriff’s Office. The county will respond to all “emergency” conditions, either
during or after a snowstorm.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be further suspended in the
event the Governor, by proclamation, implements the state’s disaster plan, or
the Chairperson of the Board of Supervisors, by proclamation, implements the
county’s disaster plan. If such occurs, the county personnel and equipment
shall be immediately subject to the direction of the Governor or Chairperson of
the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 5, passed 12-13-1984)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of §§
151.20 through
151.30 of this chapter shall be guilty of a simple misdemeanor. Fines levied
shall be deposited into the Special Account.
(Ord. 9, passed 3-24-1992)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authority
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Lands to which chapter applies
   
152.05   Rules for interpretation of Floodplain (Overlay) District
   
152.06   Compliance
   
152.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.08   Interpretation
   
152.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.10   Severability
   
152.11   Non-conforming uses
   
152.12   Amendments
   
152.13   Definitions
Floodplain Overlay District
   
152.25   Establishment
   
152.26   Standards generally
   
152.27   Development
   
152.28   Residential buildings
   
152.29   Non-residential buildings
   
152.30   New and substantially improved structures
   
152.31   Factory-built homes
   
152.32   Utility and sanitary systems
   
152.33   Storage of materials and equipment
   
152.34   Flood-control structural works
   
152.35   Watercourse alterations or relocations
   
152.36   Subdivisions
   
152.37   Accessory structures to residential uses
   
152.38   Recreational vehicles
   
152.39   Pipeline river and stream crossings
Administration
   
152.50   Zoning Administrator
   
152.51   Floodplain development permit
   
152.52   Variances
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The legislature of the state has, in Iowa Code Chapter 335, as amended,
delegated power to counties to enact zoning regulations to secure safety from
flood and to promote health and the general welfare.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
   (B)   These flood losses, hazards and related adverse effects are caused by:
      (1)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood
damages which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately
elevated or otherwise protected from flooding; and
      (2)   The cumulative effect of obstructions on the floodplain causing
increases in flood heights and velocities.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges and property of the county and its residents and to preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare and comfort and convenience of its
residents by minimizing those flood losses described in §
152.02 of this chapter with provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement;
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.04 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands within the
jurisdiction of the county which are located within the boundaries of the
Floodplain (Overlay) District as established in §
152.25 of this chapter.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.05 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF FLOODPLAIN (OVERLAY) DISTRICT.
   The boundaries of the Floodplain (Overlay) District areas shall be
determined by scaling distances on the official Flood Insurance Rate Map. When
an interpretation is needed as to the exact location of a boundary, the Zoning
Administrator/Floodplain Coordinator shall make the necessary interpretation.
The Board of Supervisors shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that
there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by the
Zoning Administrator/Floodplain Coordinator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.06 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be used and no structure shall be
located, extended, converted or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations which apply to
uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall
prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby
repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.08 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The standards required by this chapter are considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes. This chapter does not imply that areas outside the
designated Floodplain (Overlay) District areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the
county or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.11 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as non-conforming uses.
   (B)   If any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred, unless it is
reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places; provided that, the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.12 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations and standards set forth in this chapter may from time to
time be amended, supplemented, changed or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.13 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. (See 100-YEAR FLOOD.)
   BASEMENT. Any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or lowest
level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see LOWEST FLOOR.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, building or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials. DEVELOPMENT does not include “minor projects” or
“routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities”, as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing and similar practices that
do not involve filling, grading.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   EXISTING FACTORY-BUILT HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A factory-built home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
   EXPANSION OF EXISTING FACTORY-BUILT HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FACTORY-BUILT HOME. Any structure, designed for residential use which is
wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled in
manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For the purpose of this chapter, FACTORY-BUILT HOMES include
mobile homes, manufactured homes and modular homes; and also include
“recreational vehicles” which are placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days and not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
   FACTORY-BUILT HOME PARK. A parcel or contiguous parcels of land divided into
two or more factory-built home lots for sale or lease.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or rivers or
from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation flood waters would reach at a particular site
during the occurrence of a specific flood. For instance, the 100-YEAR FLOOD
ELEVATION is the elevation of flood waters related to the occurrence of the
100-year flood.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map prepared as part of (but
published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which delineates both the
flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water as a
result of a flood.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. An overall program of corrective and preventive
measures for reducing flood damages and promoting wise use of floodplains,
including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-control
works, flood-proofing and floodplain management regulations.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures, including utility and sanitary
facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such structures.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood flows to the
floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood by more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain, other than the floodway,
which can be filled or leveed or otherwise obstructed without causing
substantially higher flood levels or flow velocities.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by
either:
         (a)   An approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR.
      (1)   The floor of the lowest enclosed area in a building including a
basement, except when all the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic
pressure during floods with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions of §
152.30 of this chapter;
         (b)   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled and the
like) and used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access,
parking or storage;
         (c)   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater,
furnace, electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at
least one foot above the 100-year flood level; and
         (d)   The enclosed area is not a “basement”, as defined in this
section.
      (2)   In cases where the lowest enclosed area satisfies criteria in
divisions (1)(a), (1)(b), (1)(c) and (1)(d) above, the LOWEST FLOOR is the
floor of the next highest enclosed area that does not satisfy the criteria
above.
   MINOR PROJECTS. Small development activities (except for filling, grading
and excavating) valued at less than $500.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. (For new buildings, factory-built home parks.) Those
structures or development for which the start of construction commenced on or
after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted
by the community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW FACTORY-BUILT HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A factory-built home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   ONE HUNDRED (100) YEAR FLOOD. A flood, the magnitude of which has a 1%
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year or which, on the average,
will be equaled or exceeded a least once every 100 years.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or pennanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE OF EXISTING BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES. Repairs necessary
to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do not trigger a
building permit; provided, they are not associated with a general improvement
of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs include:
      (1)   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing
roofing tiles and replacing
siding;
      (2)   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting,
cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work;
      (3)   Basement sealing;
      (4)   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes; and
      (5)   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land within a community subject to the 100-
year flood. This land is identified as Zone A on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the development permit was issued; provided, the ACTUAL START of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other
improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories, sheds, cabins,
factory-built homes, storage tanks and other similar uses.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement to a structure which satisfies
either of the following criteria:
      (1)   (a)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the
cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
either:
            1.   Before the “start of construction” of the improvement; or
            2.   If the structure has been “substantially damaged” and is being
restored, before the damage occurred.
         (b)   The term does not, however, include any project for improvement
of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the local
code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe
living conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of a “historic
structure”; provided, the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as an “historic structure”.
      (2)    Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building
by 25% or more. All additions constructed after on or after the first
floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be added to
any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in original
floor space would exceed 25%.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of the floodplain
management regulations.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 152.25 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The areas within the jurisdiction of the county having special flood
hazards are hereby designated as a Floodplain (Overlay) District and shall be
subject to the standards of the Floodplain (Overlay) District (as well as those
for the underlying zoning district).
   (B)   The Floodplain (Overlay) District boundaries shall be as shown on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for Guthrie County and Incorporated Areas,
dated 4-5-2017.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.26 STANDARDS GENERALLY.
   All uses must be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and meet
the following applicable performance standards. Where 100-year flood data has
not been provided on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, the state’s Department of
Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The applicant will
be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with
sufficient technical information to make such determination.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.27 DEVELOPMENT.
   All development within the Floodplain (Overlay) District shall:
   (A)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage;
   (C)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant to
flood damage; and
   (D)   Obtain all other necessary permits from federal, state and local
governmental agencies, including approval when required from the state’s
Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.28 RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All new or substantially improved residential structures shall have
the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum of one foot above the
100-year flood level. Construction shall be upon compacted fill which shall, at
all points, be no lower than one foot above the 100-year flood level and extend
at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the limits of any structure erected
thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such as piers) may be allowed subject
to favorable consideration by the county’s Board of Adjustment, where existing
topography, street grades or other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such
cases, the methods used must be adequate to support the structure as well as
withstand the various forces and hazards associated with flooding.
   (B)   All new residential structures shall be provided with a means of
access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the 100-year flood.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.29 NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All new or substantially improved non-residential buildings shall have
the lowest floor (including basement) elevated a minimum of one foot above the
100-year flood level, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems,
be flood-proofed to such a level.
   (B)   When flood-proofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in
the state shall certify that the flood-proofing methods used are adequate to
withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and
other factors associated with the 100-year flood; and that the structure below
the 100-year flood level is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are flood-proofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.30 NEW AND SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Fully enclosed areas below the “lowest floor” (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters. Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building
access and low damage potential storage.
   (B)   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   New and substantially improved structures must be constructed with
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.31 FACTORY-BUILT HOMES.
   (A)   All factory-built homes, including those placed in existing factory-
built home parks or subdivisions, shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor of the structure is a minimum of one foot above the
100-year flood level.
   (B)   All factory-built homes, including those placed in existing factory-
built home parks or subdivisions, shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.32 UTILITY AND SANITARY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
   (B)   (1)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system
as well as the discharge of effluent into flood waters.
      (2)   Wastewater treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall
be provided with a level of flood protection equal to or greater than one foot
above the 100-year flood elevation.
   (C)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water supply
treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a
level of protection equal to or greater than one foot above the 100-year flood
elevation.
   (D)   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.33 STORAGE OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Storage of materials and equipment that are flammable, explosive or
injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited unless elevated a
minimum of one foot above the 100-year flood level.
   (B)   Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated, or:
      (1)   Not be subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent
movement due to flood waters; or
      (2)   Be readily removable from the area within the time available after
flood warning.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.34 FLOOD-CONTROL STRUCTURAL WORKS.
   Flood-control structural works such as levees, flood walls and the like
shall provide, at a minimum, protection from a 100-year flood with a minimum of
three feet of design freeboard and shall provide for adequate interior
drainage. In addition, structural flood-control works shall be approved by the
Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.35 WATERCOURSE ALTERATIONS OR RELOCATIONS.
   Watercourse alterations or relocations must be designed to maintain the
flood-carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion. In addition,
such alterations or relocations must be approved by the Department of Natural
Resources.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.36 SUBDIVISIONS.
   Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and subdivisions) shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and have adequate drainage
provided to reduce exposure to flood damage. Development associated with
subdivision proposals (including the installation of public utilities) shall
meet the applicable performance standards of this chapter. Subdivision
proposals intended for residential use shall provide all lots with a means of
access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the 100-year flood.
Proposals for subdivisions greater than five acres or 50 lots (whichever is
less) shall include 100-year flood elevation data for those areas located
within the Floodplain (Overlay) District.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.37 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES TO RESIDENTIAL USES.
   (A)   Detached garages, sheds and similar structures that are incidental to
a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation requirements where
the following criteria are satisfied.
      (1)   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage potential.
Its size shall not exceed 600 square feet in size. Those portions of the
structure located less than one foot above the BFE must be constructed of
flood-resistant materials.
      (2)   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage potential
purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure shall not
be used for human habitation.
      (3)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters.
      (4)   The structure shall be firmly anchored so as to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
      (5)   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or flood-proofed to at least one foot above the
base flood elevation.
      (6)   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of §
152.30 of this chapter.
   (B)   Exemption from the 100-year flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.38 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of §
152.31 of this chapter regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built homes
when the following criteria are satisfied.
      (1)   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less than
180 consecutive days.
      (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than 180
consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements of
§
152.31 of this chapter regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built
homes.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.39 PIPELINE RIVER AND STREAM CROSSINGS.
   Pipeline river and stream crossings shall be buried in the streambed and
banks or otherwise sufficiently protected to prevent rupture due to channel
degradation and meandering.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.50 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator/Floodplain Coordinator is hereby appointed to
implement and administer the provisions of this chapter and will herein be
referred to as the Administrator.
   (B)   Duties of the Administrator shall include, but not necessarily be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure
that the provisions of this chapter will be satisfied;
      (2)   Review floodplain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, state and local governmental
agencies including approval when required from the Department of Natural
Resources for floodplain construction;
      (3)   Record and maintain a record of the elevation (in relation to North
American Vertical Datum 1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
new or substantially improved structures in the Floodplain (Overlay) District;
      (4)   Record and maintain a record of the elevation (in relation to North
American Vertical Datum 1988) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been flood-proofed;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of Natural
Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a watercourse and
submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency; and
      (6)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.51 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. A floodplain development permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any human-
made change to improved and unimproved real estate, including, but not limited
to, buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, excavation
or drilling operations), including the placement of factory-built homes.
   (B)   Application for permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished
by the Administrator and shall include the following:
      (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made;
      (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(i.e., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done;
      (3)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (4)   Elevation of the 100-year flood;
      (5)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) of
the lowest floor (including basement) of buildings or of the level to which a
building is to be flood-proofed;
      (6)   For buildings being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the building prior to the improvements; and
      (7)   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this chapter.
   (C)   Action on permit application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this chapter and shall approve or
disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be informed,
in writing, of the specific reasons therefor. The Administrator shall not issue
permits for variances, except as directed by the county’s Board of Adjustment.
   (D)   Construction and use to be as provided in application and plans.
Floodplain development permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement or
construction. Any use, arrangement or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land surveyor,
as appropriate, registered in the state, that the finished fill, building floor
elevations, flood-proofing or other flood protection measures were accomplished
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the use or
occupancy of any structure.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.52 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General. The Board of Supervisors may authorize upon request in
specific cases such variances from the terms of this chapter that will not be
contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary
hardship. Variances granted must meet the following applicable standards.
      (1)   Variances shall only be granted upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of the variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local codes or ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood
protection for buildings than what is ordinarily required by this chapter, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance will result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance
coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction increases risks to life and property.
   (B)   Factors upon which the decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be
based. In passing upon applications for variances, the Board shall consider all
relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or
downstream to the injury of others;
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the county;
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use;
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area;
      (10)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood water expected at the site;
      (12)   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems), facilities, streets and bridges; and
      (13)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this
chapter.
   (C)   Conditions attached to variances. Upon consideration of the factors
listed above, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this
chapter. Such conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
      (1)   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities;
      (2)   Limitation of periods of use and operation;
      (3)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed restrictions;
      (4)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees and other protective measures; provided, such are approved by the
Department of Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative
to achieving the purpose of this chapter; and
      (5)   Flood-proofing measures.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of the requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates
this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount as set by the County Council from
time to time or imprisoned for not more than 30 days. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy violation.
(Ord. 33, passed 3-30-2017)
CHAPTER 153: WIND ENERGY
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Authority
   
153.04   Establishment
   
153.05   Amount of valuation
   
153.06   Declaration of special valuation
   
153.07   Reporting requirements
   
153.08   Repeal of special valuation
Cross-reference:
   Utility provisions, see Title V
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the special valuation of wind
energy conversion property, pursuant to Iowa Code § 427B.26.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-25-2006)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NET ACQUISITION COST (NAC). The acquired costs of the property including all
foundations and installation costs less any excess cost adjustment (ECA).
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION PROPERTY. The entire wind plant including, but not
limited to, a wind charger, windmill, wind turbine, tower and electrical
equipment, pad mount transformers, power lines and substation.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-25-2006)
§ 153.03 AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Supervisors is authorized, pursuant to Iowa Code § 427B.26, to
provide by ordinance for special valuation of wind energy conversion property
as provided in §
153.04 of this chapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-25-2006)
§ 153.04 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to Iowa Code § 427B.26, a special valuation of wind energy
conversion property is allowed in lieu of the valuation assessment provisions
in Iowa Code § 441.21(8)(b) and (c) and §§ 428.24 to 428.29. The special
valuation shall only apply to wind energy conversion property first assessed on
or after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-25-2006)
§ 153.05 AMOUNT OF VALUATION.
   Wind energy conversion property, first assessed on or after the effective
date of this chapter, shall be valued by the County Assessor for property tax
purposes as follows:
Assessment year 1                   0% of net acquisition cost
Assessment year 2                   5% of net acquisition cost
Assessment year 3                   10% of net acquisition cost
Assessment year 4                   15% of net acquisition cost
Assessment year 5                   20% of net acquisition cost
Assessment year 6                   25% of net acquisition cost
Assessment year 7                   30% of net acquisition cost
Assessment years after the 7th year 30% of net acquisition cost
 
(Ord. 24, passed 7-25-2006)
§ 153.06 DECLARATION OF SPECIAL VALUATION.
   The taxpayer shall file with the County Assessor by February 1 of the
assessment year in which the wind energy conversion property is first assessed
for property tax purposes, a declaration of intent to have the property
assessed at the value determined under §
153.05 of this chapter in lieu of the valuation assessment provisions in Iowa
Code §§ 441.21(1)(b) and (c) and 428.24 to 428.29.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-25-2006)
§ 153.07 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following reports shall be filed annually with the County Assessor by
the taxpayer: in the first year, with the declaration of intent as prescribed
in §
153.06 of this chapter and by February 1 of each year thereafter:
   (A)   Copy of asset ledger sheet to IRS;
   (B)   Engineering breakdown of component parts;
   (C)   Tower numbering system;
   (D)   Name of the contact person, phone number, FAX number and mailing
address; and
   (E)   Report of all leased equipment, the name(s) of the company(s) it is
leased from and the agreement between the lesser and lessee regarding who is
responsible for the property tax on the leased equipment.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-25-2006)
§ 153.08 REPEAL OF SPECIAL VALUATION.
   If, in the opinion of the Board of Supervisors, continuation of the special
valuation provided under §
153.04 of this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the county, the Board of
Supervisors may repeal the ordinance. Property specially valued under §
153.04 of this chapter prior to the repeal of the ordinance shall continue to
be valued under §
153.04 of this chapter until the end of the nineteenth assessment year
following the assessment year in which the property was first assessed.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-25-2006)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Purposes and objectives
   
154.003   Jurisdiction
   
154.004   Application of regulations
   
154.005   Agricultural uses exempt
   
154.006   Adoption of State Building Code and Historical Building Code
   
154.007   Interpretation of standards
   
154.008   Definitions
   
154.009   Fees
   
154.010   Enforcement
Zoning District Regulations
   
154.025   Districts generally
   
154.026   Official zoning map
   
154.027   Zoning map amendment
   
154.028   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
154.029   Zoning district divided property
   
154.030   Vacated streets or roads
   
154.031   Zoning of additional territory
General District Regulations and Exceptions
   
154.045   Farmsteads
   
154.046   Erection of more than one principal structure on lot
   
154.047   Water supply, sewage disposal and setbacks
   
154.048   Lot frontage required
   
154.049   Corner lot
   
154.050   Front yard
   
154.051   Visibility at intersections
   
154.052   Visibility at access drives
   
154.053   Accessory buildings and structures
   
154.054   General exceptions and permitted intrusions into required yards
   
154.055   Structures permitted above height limits
   
154.056   Temporary buildings
   
154.057   Caretakers quarters
   
154.058   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
   
154.059   Lighting controls
   
154.060   Home occupations and home professional offices
   
154.061   Rural enterprise business
   
154.062   Nuisances
   
154.063   Performance standards
   
154.064   Commercial campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks
   
154.065   Bed and breakfast homes
   
154.066   Grading and excavating
   
154.067   Towers and antennas; placement
Specific Districts
   
154.080   Agricultural Production District (A-1)
   
154.081   Suburban Residential District (R-1)
   
154.082   Single-Family Residential District (R-2)
   
154.083   Highway Commercial District (C-1)
   
154.084   Planned Commercial District (C-4)
   
154.085   Light Industrial District (M-1)
   
154.086   Industrial Park or Heavy Industrial District (M-2)
   
154.087   Airport Hazard Zone (AH)
   
154.088   Urban Transition District (UT)
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
154.100   Generally
   
154.101   Development and maintenance of parking areas
   
154.102   Parking spaces required
   
154.103   Development and maintenance of loading spaces
   
154.104   Submission of plans
   
154.105   Completion time for parking lots
Display and Outdoor Advertising Signs
   
154.120   Generally
   
154.121   Signs permitted in all districts
   
154.122   Signs in the Agricultural District
   
154.123   Signs in residential districts
   
154.124   Signs in commercial districts
   
154.125   Signs in industrial districts
Special Exceptions
   
154.140   Procedures and requirements
   
154.141   Application for special exception use permit
   
154.142   Procedures
   
154.143   Standards
Non-Conforming Uses and Structures
   
154.155   Intent
   
154.156   Non-conforming lots of record
   
154.157   Non-conforming uses of land with minor structures only
   
154.158   Non-conforming uses of structures or of structures and land in common
   
154.159   Non-conforming structures
   
154.160   Repairs and maintenance
   
154.161   Conditional use
   
154.162   Unauthorized non-conformities
   
154.163   Completion of pending construction
   
154.164   Registration of non-conforming uses
Board of Adjustment
   
154.175   Creation
   
154.176   Procedures
   
154.177   Powers and duties
   
154.178   Assistance from other departments
   
154.179   Appeals to Board
   
154.180   Stay of proceedings
   
154.181   Public hearings
   
154.182   Decisions of Board
   
154.183   Appeal from decision of Board
   
154.184   Time limit on Board decision
   
154.185   Expiration of conditional use permit
Zoning Permits and Certificates of Zoning Compliance
   
154.200   Zoning permit required
   
154.201   Applications for zoning permits
   
154.202   Action by Zoning Administrator
   
154.203   Expiration of zoning permit
   
154.204   Zoning certificate
   
154.205   Construction, use to be provided in applications, plans, permits,
certificates of zoning compliance
Amendments
   
154.220   County Board may amend chapter
   
154.221   Authorization for amendments
   
154.222   Application for amendments
   
154.223   Public hearing by Commission
   
154.224   Commission recommendation
   
154.225   Public hearings by County Board
   
154.226   County Board action
   
154.227   Record or amendment
   
154.228   Map change pending zoning permit
   
154.229   Revocation of map amendment
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Guthrie
County, Iowa, Zoning Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.002 PURPOSES AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted to preserve and promote the public health,
safety, peace, comfort, convenience, prosperity and general welfare of the
citizens of the county, all in accordance with and as permitted by the
provisions of Iowa Code Chapter 335, as amended.
   (B)   More specifically, this chapter is adopted in order to achieve the
following objectives identified in the County Comprehensive Plan:
      (1)   To preserve and promote the general health, safety and welfare of
the county through strategic planning and development documents, regulations
and initiatives which provide for and utilize citizen involvement in order to
provide a high quality of life for its population;
      (2)   To allow only agricultural uses or those uses incidental to
agriculture on designated agricultural land;
      (3)   To allow residential and other non-agricultural uses to be
developed only on land which is capable of supporting them;
      (4)   To encourage commercial and industrial development within the
incorporated areas of the county in order to utilize municipal infrastructure
such as water and sewer;
      (5)   To promote and preserve the conservation of all waterway, river and
drainage systems within the county as a means of preventing soil erosion, to
promote passive recreation, to preserve wildlife habitat and to regulate
development within the county’s designated floodplain areas;
      (6)   To promote the preservation of critical areas of ecological,
geological, historical and environmental significance. This shall be achieved
through the identification of such areas, informing the public of their
significance and promoting private or public retention or acquisition for the
sole purpose of their preservation and protection;
      (7)   To promote the development of shelter belts, soil erosion
stabilization methods and habitat areas and to preserve the natural areas of
the county for future generations; and
      (8)   To encourage coordination and cooperation between the county and
the incorporated cites located throughout the county, especially within a two-
mile radius of each corporate limit where powers and responsibilities are
shared.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all of the unincorporated
territory of the county.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.004 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set by this chapter with each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land and, particularly, except as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and
no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered unless in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located, except agricultural uses as set forth in §
154.005 of this chapter are exempt.
   (B)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered
to:
      (1)   Change its use;
      (2)   Accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   Exceed the height;
      (4)   Occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
      (5)   Have a narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces; or
      (6)   Reduce the number of off-street parking and loading spaces then
herein required, or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   No part of a yard or other open space or off-street parking or loading
space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this chapter shall be included as part of the yard, open space
or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building.
   (D)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter, except as
set forth herein.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.005 AGRICULTURAL USES EXEMPT.
   In accordance with the provisions of Iowa Code Chapter 335, as amended, no
regulations or restrictions adopted under the provisions of this chapter shall
be construed to apply to land, farm houses, farm barns, farm outbuildings or
other buildings or structures which are primarily adapted, by reason of nature
and area, for use for agricultural purposes. While so used, provided, however,
that, such regulations or ordinances which relate to any structure, building,
dam, obstruction, deposits or excavation in or on the floodplains of any river
or stream shall apply thereto.
   (A)   No zoning permit or certificate of zoning compliance shall be required
for the use of land for agricultural purposes or the construction or use of
buildings or structures incidental to the use for agricultural purposes of the
land on which such buildings or structures are located.
   (B)   If a tract of land is less than 20 acres, it shall be presumed that
the tract is not primarily used for agricultural purposes.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of any person or any group claiming
that certain property is entitled to exemption on the basis of this section to
demonstrate that the property is used for agricultural purposes.
   (D)   The following non-agricultural uses and buildings, though customarily
found in the agricultural areas of the county, or conducted, built or
maintained by persons coincidentally engaged in agricultural pursuits, shall
obtain a construction compliance certificate or occupancy compliance
certificate or both, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Private golf courses;
      (2)   Private lakes or ponds for recreational use by the general public,
or a private club, lodge or association;
      (3)   Stables or kennels operated as a business, club or association;
      (4)   Sawmills;
      (5)   Gravel and sand pits and rock quarries;
      (6)   Tourist campgrounds;
      (7)   Private parks;
      (8)   Private or commercial hunting preserves;
      (9)   Farmstead home occupations;
      (10)   Roadside produce stands; and
      (11)   Private dumps or waste disposal sites.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.006 ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE AND HISTORICAL BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The county hereby adopts the Iowa State Building Code and Historical
Building Code. The State Building Code and Historical Building Code shall apply
to state-owned buildings; accessibility for the handicapped, which includes all
public buildings and private buildings intended for the use by the general
public and multiple-unit dwellings with four or more units; energy conservation
requirements in residential and commercial construction; construction and
installation of factory built structures (manufactured and modular); minimum
plumbing facilities in theaters, auditoriums, convention halls, restaurants,
pubs and lounges.
   (B)   The following codes and their editions are hereby included in this
adoption (modified code versions will hold precedence over listed editions):
      (1)   International Building Code, currently adopted edition;
      (2)   International Mechanical Code, currently adopted edition;
      (3)   International Residential Code, currently adopted edition;
      (4)   International Existing Building Code, currently adopted edition;
      (5)   National Electrical Code, currently adopted edition; and
      (6)   International Energy Conservation Code for Commercial Construction,
currently adopted edition.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.007 INTERPRETATION OF STANDARDS.
   In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements. Whenever the requirements of this chapter
are at variance with the requirements of any lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, ordinances, deed restrictions, covenants or other provisions of
law, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall govern.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.008 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Construction of terms. The following rules of construction shall apply
unless inconsistent with the plain meaning of the context of this chapter.
      (1)   Tense. Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
      (2)   Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words
used in the plural include the singular.
      (3)   Shall and may. The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is
permissible.
      (4)   Gender. The masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
      (5)   Person. The word “person” includes a firm, association,
organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an
individual.
      (6)   Used or occupied. The word “used” or “occupied” include the words
intended, designed or arranged to be used or occupied.
      (7)   Headings. In the event that there is a conflict or inconsistency
between the heading of a chapter, section or division of this chapter and the
context thereof, the said heading shall not be deemed to affect the scope,
meaning or intent of such context.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A subordinate structure or use, which
customarily is incidental to that of the principal or conditional use of the
premises. Customary residential accessory uses include, but are not limited to,
tennis courts, swimming pools, detached garages, air conditioners, garden
houses, children’s play houses, barbecue ovens, fire places, patios and
residential storage sheds; but under no circumstances including incomplete or
inoperable motor vehicles. Garages or other ACCESSORY USES attached to the
principal structure shall be considered a part thereof and meet the
requirements of the principal structure.
      AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes including farming,
dairying, pasturage, agriculture, apiculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, aquatic farming and animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary
accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the produce; provided, however,
that, the operation of such accessory use shall be secondary to that of normal
agricultural activities. If the tract of land is less than 20 acres, it shall
be presumed that the tract is not primarily used for agricultural purposes.
      ALLEY. A dedicated public right-of-way, other than a street which
provides only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
      BASEMENT. The portion of a building having part, but not more than one-
half of its height below grade. A BASEMENT is counted as a story for the
purpose of height requirements.
      BED AND BREAKFAST HOME. A private residence which provides lodging and
meals for guests, in which the host or hostess resides and in which no more
than two guest families are lodged at the same time and which, while it may
advertise and accept reservations, does not hold itself out to the public to be
a restaurant, hotel or motel, does not require reservations and serves food
only to overnight guests.
      BOARD. The Board of Adjustment of Guthrie County, Iowa.
      BOARDING OR LODGING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where, for
compensation and by pre-arrangement for definite periods, lodging and/or meals,
are provided for three or more persons, but not exceeding 20 persons.
Individual cooking facilities are not provided.
      BUILDING, ATTACHED. A building which is joined to another building at one
or more sides by a common wall; except that, an accessory building, including a
garage, shall be considered attached to the principal building if connected by
a roof.
      BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals or property, but not including signs
or billboards.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical dimension measured from the grade to the
highest point of the coping of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof;
or to the average height between the plate and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel
roof.
      CAMPGROUND, COMMERCIAL AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any premises where
two or more camping units are parked/placed for camping purposes, or any
premises used or set apart for supplying to the public, camping space for two
or more camping units for camping purposes, which include any buildings,
structures, vehicles or enclosure used or intended wholly or in part for the
accommodation of transient campers.
      CAMPING UNIT. Any recreational vehicle or other vehicle, tent or other
movable shelter used for camping purposes.
      CELLAR. The portion of a building consisting of less than one-fourth area
of a basement that is primarily used for housing of heating, cooling, water
heater, water softener and related items not intended as a living space.
      COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission of Guthrie County, Iowa.
      COMMON LAND or OPEN SPACE. An area of land or water or combination
thereof planned for passive or active recreation, but does not include area
utilized for streets, alleys, driveways or private roads, off-street parking or
loading areas. However, the area of recreational activities such as swimming
pools, tennis courts, shuffleboard courts and the like may be included as
COMMON OPEN SPACE.
      COMMON SEWER SYSTEM. A central sewer collecting system available to each
platted lot and discharged into a treatment plant, the construction and
location of which is approved by the appropriate county and/or state agency,
and which does not include individual septic systems.
      COMMON WATER SYSTEM. A central water system available to each platted
from one single source approved by the appropriate county and/or state agency.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A conditional use is the main use of the premises that
would not be appropriate generally or without restrictions throughout the
zoning district, but which, if controlled as to number, area, location or
relation to the neighborhood, would promote the public health, safety, welfare,
morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance, prosperity or general welfare.
Such uses may be permitted in such zoning districts as CONDITIONAL USES, if
specific provisions for such CONDITIONAL USE is made in this chapter.
      CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Waste building materials including
wood, metals and rubble which result from construction and demolition of
structures. Such waste shall also include trees.
      CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. A sanitary landfill
which accepts only construction and demolition wastes.
      CONVALESCENT, NURSING AND RETIREMENT HOMES. A building or structure
having accommodations and where care is provided for at least three unrelated,
invalid, infirm, aged, convalescent or physically disabled or injured persons,
not including insane or other mental cases, inebriate or contagious cases for
compensation, but not including, hospitals, clinics or similar institutions
devoted primarily to the diagnosis, treatment or care of the sick or injured.
      COUNTY. Unincorporated areas of Guthrie County, Iowa.
      COUNTY BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of Guthrie County, Iowa.
      COUNTY INFRACTION. A civil offense punishable by a civil penalty and
issued by means of a citation.
      COUNTY ROAD. Any street, other than a highway.
      DAY CARE NURSERY or NURSERY SCHOOLS. Any public or private agency,
institution, establishment or place which provides supplement parental care
and/or educational work, other than lodging overnight, for six or more
unrelated children of pre-school age, for compensation.
      DEMOLITION RUBBLE WASTE. Stone, brick or similar inorganic matter.
      DEMOLITION RUBBLE WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. Any land, premises or property
used for the storage of rubble for a period of 14 days or more. The Planning
Director may, at his or her discretion, allow materials other than “demolition
rubble waste” to be placed in the DEMOLITION RUBBLE WASTE DISPOSAL SITE;
however, these non-rubble materials may never exceed 5% of the total volume of
the individual loads of materials being placed in any DEMOLITION RUBBLE WASTE
DISPOSAL SITE.
      DISTRICT. A section or sections of the county within which certain
regulations and requirements of this chapter covering the use, height, area,
size and intensity of the use of buildings, land and open spaces about
buildings are uniform. The term CLASS “A” DISTRICT shall mean any agricultural
district; the term CLASS “R” DISTRICT shall mean any residential district; the
term CLASS “C” DISTRICT shall mean any commercial district; and the term CLASS
“I” DISTRICT shall mean any industrial district.
      DISTRICT, OVERLAY. A district which acts in conjunction with the
underlying zoning district or districts.
      DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof which is designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes, but not including tent, recreational
vehicle, both as defined in this chapter and in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances, or trailer. Tents and/or recreational
vehicles shall not be utilized as a permanent place of abode, dwelling or
business. Continuous occupancy shall be presumed to be permanent occupancy.
         (a)   CONDOMINIUM DWELLING. A multi-family dwelling as defined herein
whereby the fee title to each dwelling unit is held independently of the other.
         (b)   COOPERATE DWELLING. A multi-family dwelling as defined herein
whereby the fee title to each dwelling unit is held jointly by owners of all
the dwelling units.
         (c)   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling containing three or more
dwelling units, designed for and occupied by an equal number of families.
         (d)   ROW DWELLING or TOWNHOUSE. A multi-family dwelling, as defined
herein, whereby each dwelling unit is designed and erected as a unit on a
separate lot and separated from other units by an approved wall or walls.
         (e)   SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING. A detached dwelling unit
designed for and occupied by not more than one family.
         (f)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling containing two dwelling units,
designed for and occupied by not more than two families.
         (g)   FARMSTEAD DWELLING. A dwelling located on a farm and occupied by
a person or family employed fully or partially in the agricultural pursuits of
the farm on which it is located.
      DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly or longer basis, and physically separated from
any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
      EASEMENT. Is a grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation
or persons of the use of a tract of land for a specific purpose or purposes.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or
maintenance, by public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies,
of underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or
distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems,
including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire
alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar
equipment and accessories in connection therewith; reasonably necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or municipal or other
governmental agencies or for the public health or safety or general welfare,
but not including buildings.
      ETHANOL OR BIODIESEL PRODUCTION PLANT. A set of buildings or plant site
used for the processing of a gasoline or diesel additive and its by-products.
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit and living
as a single housekeeping unit, whether or not related to each other by blood,
marriage or adoption. A FAMILY shall not, under any circumstances, be construed
as a board or lodging house, special placement residence, fraternity or
sorority house, club, hotel or motel.
      FAMILY, MEMBER OF THE IMMEDIATE. A person’s parents, spouse, child,
mother-in- law, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents or grandchild.
      FAMILY HOME. A community-based residential home which is licensed as a
residential care facility under Iowa Code Chapter 135C, or a child foster care
facility under Iowa Code Chapter 237, to provide room and board, personal care,
habilitation services and supervision in a family environment exclusively for
not more than eight persons with a development disability or brain injury and
any necessary support personnel. However, FAMILY HOME does not mean an
individual foster family home licensed under Iowa Code Chapter 237. This
definition shall also include the terms HOME FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL
DISABILITIES, ELDER FAMILY HOMES and ELDER GROUP HOMES.
      FARM. A tract or area of land which is primarily used for agricultural
purposes and the growing and production of all farm products thereon, and their
storage on the area, or for the raising thereon of poultry or livestock.
      FARMSTEAD. The buildings and adjacent service areas of a farm.
      FEED LOT or LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT FACILITY. A feed lot shall mean the
confined feeding of food of animals in buildings, lots, pens, pools or ponds,
which normally are not used for the raising of crops or for grazing animals.
The term FEED LOT shall include dairies, livestock feed lots, livestock
confinement facilities, poultry farms and poultry confinement facilities.
      FENCE, SIGHT-OBSCURING. A fence or planting arranged in such a way as to
obstruct vision.
      FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the
street, or, if the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on
one side between an intersecting streets and the dead end of the street.
      GRADE. The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent
to the exterior walls of the building, except when any wall approximately
parallels and is not more than five feet from a street line, then the elevation
of the street at the center of the wall adjoining the street shall be GRADE.
      GRAIN ELEVATOR or GRAIN DISTRIBUTION PLANT. A structure or group of
structures whose purpose is limited to the receiving, processing, storage,
drying and transporting of bulk grain.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed or used for the storage
of not more than four motor vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the
building to which it is accessory. Not more than one of the vehicles may be a
commercial vehicle.
      GARAGE, COMMERCIAL. A building or portion thereof, other than a private
garage, designed or used for equipping, repairing, hiring, servicing, selling
or storing motor vehicles.
      HIGHWAY. An officially designated federal or state numbered highway, or
other major street or road designated by the county as a thoroughfare.
      HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public
for compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in contradiction to a
board house or lodging house.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or portion thereof which does
not have a current Iowa license or has one of the following conditions: parts
have been removed for re-use, salvage or sale or the vehicle has been incapable
of operating or has not been operated under its own power for more than 30 days
or machinery which, because of its defective or obsolete condition, or rotted,
rusted or loose parts, or which in any other way constitutes a threat to the
health and safety of the citizens. The definition shall include implements of
husbandry not a part of a farming operation.
      JUNK. All old or scrap copper, brass, lead or other non-ferrous metal;
old rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber debris, water; dismantled or
inoperable vehicles, machinery and appliances or parts of such vehicles,
machinery or appliances; iron, steel or other old or scrap ferrous materials;
old discarded glass, tinware, plastic or old discarded household goods or
hardware.
      JUNKYARD. Any place not fully enclosed in a building, used in whole or in
part for the storage, salvage or deposit of junk, unusable lumber or salvaged
wood, whether in connection with a business or not, which encompasses an area
of 600 cubic feet or more, or any place where more than two inoperable motor
vehicles, or used parts and materials thereof when taken together equal the
bulk of two motor vehicles, are stored and deposited. For the purposes of this
chapter, JUNKYARD shall include SALVAGE YARD, WRECKING YARD, USED LUMBERYARD
and PLACES FOR STORAGE OF SALVAGED WOOD.
      KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any person who keeps or maintains more than four dogs
six months or older. The term shall also include any kennel for dogs and/or
cats, which performs one or more of the following activities:
         (a)   Board of such animals not owned by the proprietors;
         (b)   Breeding of such animals for sale, whether or not such animals
are raised, trained, groomed or boarded by proprietors; and
         (c)   Grooming and training services of such animals.
      KENNEL, PRIVATE. A non-commercial kennel at, in or adjoining a private
residence where dogs are kept for hobby of the householder, in using them for
hunting or practice training or for exhibiting them in shows of field or
obedience trials or for guarding or protecting the householder’s property. The
keeper of a PRIVATE KENNEL may keep or maintain no more than four dogs, six
months or older.
      LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for
bulk pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used,
and accessible to such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are
filled. The space shall have a minimum dimension of 12 feet by 35 feet and
vertical clearance of at least 14 feet. Required OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE is
not to be used as off-street parking in computation of required off- street
parking spaces.
      LOT. A parcel of land at least sufficient size to meet the minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area to provide such yards and other open
spaces as are herein required. Such LOT shall have frontage on an improved
public street or on a private street approved prior to the effective date of
this chapter and may consist of a single lot of record; a portion of a lot of
record; a combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of record;
and a parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that, in no case
of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created which
does not meet the requirements of this chapter. In no case shall a parcel of
land conveyed under a lease be construed as a LOT, unless said lot has been
platted as a LOT in an approved subdivision.
      LOT FRONTAGE. The portion of a lot or parcel of land which abuts a
street. Each side of a lot so abutting a public street shall be considered as a
separate LOT FRONTAGE. The frontage of a lot or lots shall be measured along
the street right-of-way line.
      LOT LINES. The property lines bounding a lot.
         (a)   FRONT LOT LINE. The lot line separating the front of the lot
from the street. However, for purposes of determining lot requirements in cases
where the front lot line is located within a street or highway right-of-way or
easement, the street right-of-way line shall be used. In the case of a corner
lot, that part of the lot having the narrowest frontage on any street shall be
considered the FRONT LOT LINE.
         (b)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line which is opposite and most distant
from the front lot line. In the case of an irregular, triangular or odd shaped
lot, it shall mean a straight line ten feet in length which:
            1.   Is parallel to the front lot line or its chord; and
            2.   Intersects the two other lot lines at points most distant from
the front lot line.
         (c)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a front or rear lot line. A SIDE LOT LINE
separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an interior side lot line.
      LOT MEASUREMENTS. The following lot measurements apply.
         (a)   LOT AREA. The gross horizontal area within the lot lines of a
lot, exclusive of any area contained within a street or highway right-of-way or
easement of access.
         (b)   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and
rear lot lines. In the case of an irregular, triangular or odd shaped lot, the
depth shall be the horizontal distance between the midpoints of the front and
rear lot lines.
         (c)   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot line as
measured perpendicular to the line comprising the lot depth at its point of
intersection with the required minimum front yard setback. Where the lot width
is decreasing from front to rear, the horizontal distance between the side lot
lines as described above shall be measured at its point of intersection with
the required minimum rear yard setback.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision recorded in the
office of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
      LOT TYPES. The following types of lots are defined.
         (a)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets, having the street right-of-way abut the front and one or more side
lines of the lot. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be
considered a CORNER LOT if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the
side lot lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of
less than 135 degrees.
         (b)   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot, other than a corner lot, having
frontage on two or more non-intersecting streets.
         (c)   FLAG LOT. An interior lot which is generally located behind
other lots and which would be a land-locked area of land if not for a narrow
strip of land, used exclusively for access purposes, connecting the area with a
public street. The minimum bulk requirements for a FLAG LOT, excluding the
strip, shall be the same as required for other lots within the zoning district.
         (d)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot, other than a corner lot, having frontage on
only one street.
      MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. Includes recreational vehicles, boats and
boat trailers, and the like, and equipment used for transporting recreational
equipment, whether or not occupied by such equipment.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure built under authority of the
Construction and Safety Standards Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 5403, is required by
federal law to display a seal from the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development, and was constructed on or after 6-15-1976. If a MANUFACTURED
HOME is placed in a mobile home park, the home must be titled and is subject to
the mobile home square foot tax. If a MANUFACTURED HOME is placed outside a
mobile home park, the home must be assessed and taxed as real estate.
      MANUFACTURED HOME CONVERTED TO REAL ESTATE. A manufactured home which is
located outside a mobile home park shall be converted to real estate by being
placed on a permanent foundation and shall be assessed for real estate taxes.
MANUFACTURED HOMES CONVERTED TO REAL ESTATE shall not be considered as portable
or potentially portable structures, but rather shall be considered single-
family dwellings for the purpose of this chapter.
      MINI-WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings not more than one story
or 20 feet in height and not having any dimension greater than 150 feet per
building, containing varying sizes of individualized, compartmentalized and
controlled access stalls or lockers for the dead storage of customer’s goods or
wares, excluding junk, explosive or flammable materials, and other noxious or
dangerous materials, including, if any, caretaker or supervisors’ quarters as
an accessory use. No business activities other than rental of storage units
shall be conducted on the premises.
      MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle which at any time was used or maintained for use
as a conveyance upon highways or public streets, or waterways, and duly
licensed as such; and so designed and constructed as to permit occupancy
thereof as a dwelling unit or sleeping place for one or more persons.
         (a)   This definition shall refer to and include portable and
potentially portable contrivances used or intended to be used generally for
living and sleeping quarters and which is capable of being moved by its own
power, towed or transported by another vehicle.
         (b)   This definition shall also include and apply to such vehicles or
structures that are located on a permanent or temporary foundation, but shall
not include manufactured homes converted to real estate, as defined herein.
      MOBILE HOME PARK or TRAILER PARK. Any lot or portion of a lot which two
or more mobile homes or trailers occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are
located regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
      MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision created for the purpose of and
restricted to the sale or lease of individual lots for occupancy by independent
mobile homes or mobile homes converted to real estate and having public
streets, utilities and other public facilities installations approved by the
Board of Supervisors in accordance with the subdivision regulations of the
county.
      MODULAR HOME. (Does not include double-wide mobile homes.) Any
prefabricated structure of conventional construction used for dwelling purposes
moved onto a site in essentially complete constructed condition, in one or more
parts and when completed is a single-family unit on a permanent foundation,
attached to the foundation with permanent connections. MODULAR HOMES shall not
be considered as portable or potentially portable structures, but rather shall
be considered single-family dwellings for purposes of this chapter.
      MOTEL or MOTOR HOTEL. A building or group of attached or detached
buildings containing individual sleeping or living units for overnight auto
tourists, with parking facilities conveniently located to each such unit, and
may include such accessory facilities such as swimming pools, restaurant,
meeting room and the like.
      NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which:
         (a)   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals;
         (b)   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities;
or
         (c)   Endangers or injures personal or real property.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. Any structure or building lawfully constructed
prior to the effective date of this chapter (or amendment thereto) which does
not conform with the bulk regulations of the district in which it is located.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. The lawful use of any structure or land that was
established prior to the effective date of this chapter (or amendment thereto)
which does not conform with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
      OBJECTIONABLE ODOR. An odor that is of such frequency, duration, quality
and intensity as to be harmful or injurious to human health and welfare, or so
as the unreasonably interfere with the comfortable use and enjoyment of life
and property of individuals or the public.
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area which includes the parking plus the
maneuvering space required for the parking of motor vehicles. Space for
maneuvering incidental to parking or unparking shall not encroach upon any
public right-of-way. For purposes of rough computation, an OFF-STREET PARKING
SPACE and necessary access and maneuvering may be estimated at 300 square feet,
but off-street parking requirements will be considered to be met only when
actual spaces meeting the requirements above are provided and maintained,
improved in a manner appropriate to the circumstances of the case and in
accordance with all ordinances and regulations of the county.
      PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A pier footing foundation system designed and
constructed to be compatible with the structure and the conditions of the site.
Said foundation system shall have visual compatibility with the permanent
foundation systems of the surrounding residential structures. A PERMANENT
FOUNDATION shall not under any circumstances by construed as a conventional
mobile home skirting.
      PORCH, UNENCLOSED. A roofed projection which has no more than 50% of each
outside wall area enclosed by a building or siding material other than meshed
screens.
      PRINCIPAL USE. A principal use is the main use of the premises permitted
outright in a particular zoning district as distinguished from a conditional
use.
      PRIVATE NON-COMMERCIAL CLUB. A non-profit association of persons who are
bona fide members paying annual dues, which owns, hires or leases a building or
premises, or portion thereof, the use of such building or premises being
restricted to members and their guests. The affairs and management of such
private clubs are conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or
similar body chosen by the members at their annual meeting. It shall be
permissible to serve food and meals on such premises providing adequate dining
room space and kitchen facilities are available. The sale of alcoholic
beverages to members and their guests shall be allowed provided it is secondary
and incidental to the promotion of some other common objectives by the
organization; and, further provided that, such sale of alcoholic beverages is
in compliance with the applicable federal, state, county and municipal laws.
      QUARTER-QUARTER SECTION. The northeast, northwest, southeast or southwest
quarter of a quarter section delineated by the United States Government system
of land survey and which is approximately 40 acres in size.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type camping unit primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which either
has its own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle.
Temporary occupancy shall be considered no more than two weeks when the
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is not located in a commercial campground and recreational
vehicle park. The basic entities are: travel trailer; camping or tent trailer;
truck camper; and motor home or coach.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SITE. A plot of ground within a recreational vehicle
park intended for the accommodation of either a recreational vehicle, tent or
other individual camping unit on a temporary basis.
      REPEAT OFFENSE. A recurring violation of the same section of this
chapter.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The land area, the right to possession of which is secured
or reserved for public purposes.
      ROADSIDE STAND. A structure used seasonally for the sale of neighborhood
agricultural products or other products grown or produced on the premises.
      ROOFLINE. The juncture of the roof and the perimeter wall of the
structure.
      SERVICE STATION. Any building or premises used for the retail sale of
liquefied petroleum products for the propulsion of motor vehicles, and
including such products as kerosene, fuel oil, packaged naphtha, lubricants,
tires, batteries, antifreeze, motor vehicle accessories and other items
customarily associated with the sale of such products; for the rendering of
serve and making of adjustments and replacements to motor vehicles, and the
washing, waxing and polishing of motor vehicles, as incidental to other
services rendered; and the making of repairs to motor vehicles except of a
major type. Repairs of a major type are defined to be spray painting, body,
fender, clutch, transmission, differential, axle, spring and frame repairs;
major overhauling of engines requiring the removal of engine cylinder head or
crankcase pan; repairs to radiators requiring the removal thereof; or complete
recapping or retreading of tires. A SERVICE STATION is not a commercial garage,
nor a body or fender shop.
      SETBACK. The required minimum horizontal distance between the front, rear
or side lines of the lot and the front, rear or side lines of the building
respectively for a particular zoning district. SETBACK may also be referred to
as required yard.
      SIGN. Any device which shall display or include any letter, word, model,
banner, flag, pennant, insignia, device or representation use as, or which is
in the nature of, an advertisement or announcement which directs attention to
an object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or
business, but shall not include any display of official notice.
         (a)   FREE-STANDING SIGN. A sign which is supported by structures or
supports in or upon the ground and independent of support from any building or
wall.
         (b)   PORTABLE SIGN. A free-standing sign which is not permanently
anchored secure to the ground.
         (c)   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign, other than a wall sign, which is
supported or attached to any building or wall and which extends more than one
foot out from the building or wall.
         (d)   ROOF SIGN. A sign which is erected upon or above the roof or
parapet of any building.
         (e)   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign which is intended only for a limited
period of display.
         (f)   WALL SIGN. A sign which is painted on or attached to and erected
parallel to the face of the outside wall of any building and supported by such
building or wall and which displays only one advertising surface.
      SIGN, AREA. The sign area shall be that area determined by the Zoning
Administrator using actual dimensions, where practicable, or approximate
dimensions when irregularity of sign shape warrants. Such AREA shall include
the extreme points or edges of the sign, excluding the supporting structure
which does not form part of the sign proper or of the display. The AREA OF A
SIGN composed of characters or words attached directly to a building or wall
surface shall be the smallest rectangle which encloses the whole group. Where a
sign has two or more faces, the AREA of all faces shall be included in
determining the AREA of the sign; except that, where two such faces are placed
back to back and are at no point more than 24 inches from one another. In this
instance, the AREA OF THE SIGN shall be taken as the area of one face if the
two faces are of equal area, or as the area of the larger face if the two faces
are of unequal area.
      SIGN, ON-SITE. A sign relating in its subject matter to the premises on
which it is located, or to products, accommodations, services or activities on
the premises. ON-SITE SIGNS do not include signs erected by the outdoor
advertising industry in the conduct of the outdoor advertising business.
      SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING AND BILLBOARDS. All structures, regardless of
the material used in the construction of the same, that are erected, maintained
or used for public display of posters, painted signs, wall signs, whether the
structure be placed on the wall or painted on the wall itself, pictures or
other pictorial reading matter which advertise a business or attraction which
is not carried on or manufactured in or upon the premises upon which said signs
or billboards are located.
      SPECIAL PLACEMENT RESIDENCE. Any building or premises occupied by three
or more persons not related to the owner, lessee or operator by blood, marriage
or adoption, who upon their release as patients from any recognized mental
institution, treatment ward for alcoholism, treatment center for narcotic
addicts or as an inmate of any correctional penal institution, uses such
building or premises as living facilities in order to secure non-
institutionalized care in their attempt to re- enter society as healthy, happy
and useful human beings. The operator must reside at such premises.
      STABLE, COMMERCIAL AND RIDING ACADEMY. A building or structure used or
intended to be used for the housing of horses which are let, hired, used or
boarded on a commercial basis and for compensation. Riding instruction may be
given in connection with a COMMERCIAL STABLE or RIDING ACADEMY.
      STABLE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or structure used or intended to
be used for the housing of horses owned by the occupant of the property or
temporary guests of the occupant on a non- commercial basis and not for
compensation.
      STABLE, RIDING CLUB. A building or structure used or intended to be used
for the housing of horses owned by a group of persons a non-commercial basis.
      STORY. The portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if
there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling or
roof next above it.
      STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than a half-story above the
top floor level.
      STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way intended
for public use for the purpose of vehicular and pedestrian traffic and for the
placement of utilities. The term STREET shall include avenue, circle, drive,
highway, lane, place, thoroughfare or any other similar designation.
      STREET, HARD SURFACE. A street which has a full-depth surfacing
consisting of concrete, or asphalt with a structural capacity equivalency of
concrete, constructed in accordance with appropriate local, county or state
regulations.
      STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel
of land and the contiguous street. The boundary line of a street.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any replacement or changes in the type of
construction or in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls
or partitions, columns, beams or girders, beyond ordinary repairs and
maintenance.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes, billboards, signs,
towers, sheds, storage bins, and gas and liquid storage tanks, but excluding
driveways, parking areas, patios, and public items such as utility poles,
street light fixtures, street signs, sidewalks and paving on streets.
      SUBTERRANEAN HOME. A dwelling which has all but one wall completely
covered and landscaped with earth, including the roof. For the purposes of this
chapter, a cellar or basement shall not be defined as a SUBTERRANEAN HOME.
      SUMMER COTTAGE. A single-family dwelling or mobile home, including
houseboats, intended for seasonal or temporary occupancy only, and not
permanently occupies as a family residence for more than 180 days during any
calendar year.
      TAVERN. An establishment in which the primary function is the public sale
and serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, including
establishments commonly known as key clubs, which are open and in which
alcoholic beverages are served only to members and their guests.
      TRAILER CAMP or TOURIST CAMP. An area providing spaces for two or more
travel trailers, camping trailers or tent sites for temporary occupancy with
necessary incidental services, sanitation and recreation facilities to serve
the traveling public.
      TRAVEL TRAILER or CAMPING TRAILER. A vehicle without motive power used or
so manufactured or constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon
the public streets and highways s and so designed to permit the vehicles to be
used as a place of human habitation by one or more persons. Said vehicle may be
up to eight feet in width and any length. Such vehicle shall be customarily or
ordinarily used for vacation or recreation purposes; if used as a place of
human habitation for more than 90 days in a 12-month period, it shall be
classified as a mobile home. This definition shall also include house cars and
camp cars having motive power and designated for temporary occupancy, as herein
defined.
      VARIANCE.
         (a)   A relaxation of the terms of this chapter where such variance
shall not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions
peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the applicant, a
literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue
hardship.
         (b)   As used in this chapter, a VARIANCE is authorized only for the
height, area and size of structures or the size of yards and open spaces;
establishment of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed by variance,
nor shall a variance be granted because of the presence of non-conformities in
the zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning district or because of
conditions created by the landowner.
      YARD. An open space unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a
structure from two and one-half feet above the general ground level of the
graded lot upward; provided, however, that, fences, walls, yard recreational
and laundry drying equipment, arbors and trellises, flagpoles, yard lights,
statuary and similar decorative items, and other customary yard accessories may
be permitted in any yard subject to height limitations and requirements
limiting obstruction or visibility. In measuring a YARD for the purpose of
determining the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the least
distance between the lot line and principal building shall be used. In
measuring a YARD for the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the
least distance between the lot line and the nearest permitted building shall be
used.
         (a)   FRONT YARD. A yard extending between side lot lines and measured
horizontally and at right angles from the front lot line to the nearest point
of the principal building or structure.
         (b)   REAR YARD. A yard extending between side lot lines and measured
horizontally and at right angles from the rear lot line to the nearest point of
the principal building or structure.
         (c)   SIDE YARD. A yard extending between the front and rear yard and
measured horizontally and at right angles from the side lot line to the nearest
point of a permitted building or structure.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator of Guthrie County, Iowa.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.009 FEES.
   (A)   Filing fee required.
      (1)   A filing fee in accordance with the established fee schedule shall
be charged for each application to assist in deferring the cost of
administrative review and legal publication.
      (2)   The applicant shall be held responsible for submitted the required
filing fee upon submission of the completed application.
      (3)   No action shall be taken on any application until the required fee
is paid in full.
   (B)   Fee schedule. The fee schedule is set forth and has been established
by resolution of the County Board of Supervisors.
   (C)   Payment of fees. All fees mentioned above shall be paid to the County
Treasurer for the general fund, line item: County Zoning, of Guthrie County,
Iowa. The receipt shall be attached to the application submitted to the Zoning
Administrator.
   (D)   Fee refund. Whether the request is granted or denied by either or the
Zoning Commission, County Board of Supervisors or the Board of Adjustment, the
applicant shall not be entitled to a refund of the fee paid.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.010 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to administer
and enforce this chapter in accordance with its provisions.
      (2)   All departments, officials and public employees of the county
vested with the duty or authority to issue permits, licenses or certificates
shall comply with the provisions of this chapter and shall issue no permit,
license or certificate for any use, building or purpose in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In the enforcement of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall
exercise the following power and duties.
      (1)   All questions of interpretation and enforcement of this chapter
shall be first presented to the Zoning Administrator and such questions shall
be presented to the Board only on appeal of the decision of the Zoning
Administrator. Any recourse from the decision of the Board shall be to the
courts as provided in §§
154.175 through
154.185 of this chapter.
      (2)   Whenever a zoning violation occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file with the Zoning Administrator a written complaint which
states fully the causes and basis thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall
record properly such complaint, immediately investigate and take appropriate
action thereon.
      (3)   Upon discovery of any zoning violation, the Zoning Administrator
shall notify in writing the person responsible for such violation, indicating
the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it.
The Zoning Administrator shall order discontinuance of illegal use of land or
structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions,
alterations or structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being
done; or shall take any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure
compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare reports of those zoning
violations which continue unabated after exhaustion of reasonable
administrative remedies towards their abatement and shall submit said reports
to the County Attorney for such legal action as the facts of each report may
require.
      (5)   In the event the County Attorney after analysis of the report,
institutes legal proceedings, the Zoning Administrator will cooperate fully
with the County Attorney in the perfection of such proceedings.
      (6)   In all cases where the county commences court action, the Zoning
Administrator shall cooperate with the County Attorney by performing such
additional investigative work as the County Attorney may reasonably require.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.025 DISTRICTS GENERALLY.
   In order to carry out the purpose and intent of this chapter, the following
zoning district classifications are hereby established:
   (A)   Agricultural and conservation districts: Agricultural Production A-1;
   (B)   Residential districts:
      (1)   Single Family Residential R-1; and
      (2)   Multi-Family Residential R-2.
   (C)   Commercial districts:
      (1)   Highway Commercial C-1; and
      (2)   Planned Commercial C-4.
   (D)   Industrial districts:
      (1)   Light Industrial M-1; and
      (2)   Industrial Park or Heavy Industrial M-2.
   (E)   Urban Transitional District UT;
   (F)   Government Exempt G-1; and
   (G)   Centrally Assessed Utility U-1.
§ 154.026 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of these districts are hereby designed as shown on the
atlas of maps which is entitled “Official Zoning Map” and which together with
all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the
Chairperson of the County Board, attested by the County Auditor, and bearing
the seal of the County under the certification that the Official Zoning Map
referred to in §
154.026 of this chapter, together with the ordinance number and the date of
adoption of this chapter.
   (C)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning
Map, which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map
shall be maintained on file in the Office of the Zoning Administrator and shall
be the final authority as to the current zoning of the unincorporated territory
of the county.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.027 ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, as provided in
§§
154.220 through
154.229 of this chapter, amendments are made in the district boundaries or
other matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such amendments together
with the ordinance number and date of adoption of said amendment shall be
recorded by the Zoning Administrator on the Official Zoning Map, and shall be
signed by the Chairperson of the County Board and attested by the County
Auditor. No amendment to this chapter, which involves matter portrayed on the
Official Zoning Map, shall become effective until such amendment has been
recorded on said map.
   (B)   No changes of any nature shall be made in the Official Zoning Map or
matter shown thereon, except in conformity with the procedures set forth in
this chapter. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   The County Board may from time to time adopt a new Official Zoning Map
which shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map, in the event that the
Official Zoning Map becomes damaged or destroyed; or for the purposes of
clarity due to a number of boundary changes, or to correct drafting error or
omissions; provided, however, that, any such adoption shall not have the effect
of amending the original Official Zoning Map or any subsequent amendment
thereof. Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost, or has been
totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining,
shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to their
adoption or amendment.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.028 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
Official Zoning Map the following shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
roads, streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such
centerline.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines or
recorded property lines shall be construed to follow such lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following section, half-section,
quarter-section or other fractional section lines of U.S. Public Land surveys,
as established by law, shall be construed to follow such lines.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following corporate limits shall
be construed as following corporate limits.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following railroad lines shall
be construed to be midway between the main tracks.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
rivers, streams, creeks or other waterways shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
   (G)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extension of features indicated
in divisions (A) through (F) above shall be so construed.
   (H)   Where no other indication of the district boundary is made and no
dimensions are shown, the location of the boundary shall be determined by use
of the scale appearing on the Official Zoning Map.
   (I)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (A) through (H) above, the Board shall interpret the
district boundaries, as provided in §§
154.175 through
154.185 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.029 ZONING DISTRICT DIVIDING PROPERTY.
   Where one parcel of property is divided into two or more portions by reason
of different zoning district classifications, each portion shall be used
independently of the other in its respective zoning classification, and for the
purpose of applying the regulations of this chapter, each portion shall be
considered as if in separate and different ownership.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.030 VACATED STREETS OR ROADS.
   Whenever any street, road, alley or other public way is vacated by official
action as provided by law, the zoning district adjoining the side of such
public way shall be automatically extended, depending on the side or sides to
which such lands revert to include right-of-way of the public way thus vacated
which shall thenceforth be subject to all regulations of the extended district
or districts.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.031 ZONING OF ADDITIONAL TERRITORY.
   Any addition to the unincorporated territory of the county resulting from
disconnection by municipalities or otherwise shall automatically be designated
as a Class “A-1” District until otherwise classified by amendment.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
GENERAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS
§ 154.045 FARMSTEADS.
   (A)   Within any Class “A” District, a farmstead in existence at the time of
adoption of this chapter may be severed from the farm. A minimum of two acres
per each dwelling unit of the farmstead is required with front yard, side yard
and rear yard requirements applicable to the zoning district in which it is
located. The provisions of §
154.047 of this chapter relative to water supply, sewage disposal and setbacks
shall be complied with in the creation of said parcel.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this provision to permit the circumvention of
the requirements of the Subdivision Ordinance.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.046 ERECTION OF MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE ON LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located on
a lot as defined herein and in no case shall there be more than one principal
building on one lot; provided that, more than one industrial, commercial,
multi-family dwelling or institutional building may be erected upon a single
lot or tract in a district permitting these uses, but the yards and open spaces
required around the boundaries of the lot or tract shall not be encroached upon
by any buildings, nor shall there be any change in the intensity of use
regulations.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.047 WATER SUPPLY, SEWAGE DISPOSAL AND SETBACKS.
   (A)   Every residence, business, trade or industry hereafter established,
which requires water supply and sewage disposal facilities, shall provide
facilities which conform with the requirements and standards of the appropriate
state, county or local agency.
   (B)   For the purpose of providing adequate sewage disposal in areas
serviced by on-site wastewater treatment and disposal systems, soil
characteristics shall be highly instrumental in determining lot area. The
minimum lot area in the various districts shall be determined by the following
factors:
      (1)   The ability to situate a private water well on the lot in
compliance with the Guthrie County Environmental Health Department;
      (2)   The ability to situate two on-site wastewater treatment and
disposal systems on the lot;
      (3)   The ability to meet the appropriate setback requirements for the
zoning district; and
      (4)   The ability to provide adequate off-street parking and off-street
loading.
   (C)   In the event the above-referenced features can be accommodated in the
minimum lot area outlined in the various districts, said lot area shall be
accepted as stated. However, in the event the above-referenced features cannot
be accommodated in the specified minimum lot area for that zoning district,
said lot area shall be increased to a size that can accommodate the above-
referenced features.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.048 LOT FRONTAGE REQUIRED.
   No lot shall contain any building used in whole or in part for residence
purposes unless such lot abuts for at least 25 feet on at least one street, or
unless it has an exclusive unobstructed private easement of access or right-of-
way at least 25 feet wide to a street; and there shall be not more than one
single-family dwelling for such frontage or easement; except that, a common
easement of access at least 50 feet wide may be provided for no more than two
such single-family dwellings or for no more than one two-family or multiple
dwellings. The driveway surface shall be constructed within the boundaries of
the frontage or easement. There shall be a minimum separation distance, along
the street, of 150 feet between such frontage or easement.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.049 CORNER LOT.
   After the effective date of this chapter, the front yard setback requirement
for a particular district shall apply equally to each yard of a corner lot
which abuts a street other than an alley.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.050 FRONT YARD.
   In any Class “R” District or platted residential subdivision, there shall be
a front yard setback as stated in the setback requirements for that particular
district; provided, however, where lots comprising 30% or more the frontage
within 200 feet of either side lot line, excluding frontage zoned other than
residential, are developed with buildings at a greater or lesser setback, the
front yard setback requirement shall be the average of these building setbacks
and the minimum front yard setback required for undeveloped lots. In computing
the average setback, buildings located on reverse frontage lots or entirely on
the rear half of lots shall not be counted. In any case, the required yard
setback as computed herein need not exceed twice the minimum front yard setback
required for the particular district, but in no case shall the front yard
setback be less than 15 feet.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.051 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   All corner lots shall have a visual clearance area in which nothing shall be
erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially
impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet and ten feet above the
centerline grades of the intersecting streets. A minimum visual clearance area
is formed by the street right-of-way lines and a straight line joining said
lines through 50 feet from their intersection. This regulation shall not be
interpreted as to prohibit the placement of an unobstructed chain link fence or
fence of similar construction within the visual clearance area.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.052 VISIBILITY AT ACCESS DRIVES.
   All access drives and driveways shall have a visual clearance area in which
nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner
as to materially impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet and
ten feet above the centerline grade of the street. A minimum visual clearance
area is formed by the intersection of the driveway centerline, the street
right-of-way line, and a straight line joining said lines through 20 feet from
their intersection. This regulation shall not be interpreted as to prohibit the
placement of an unobstructed chain line fence or fence of similar construction
within the visual clearance area.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.053 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   The following regulations shall govern the placement and use of accessory
buildings and structures.
   (A)   Accessory buildings may be erected as an integral part of the
principal building or may be connected thereto by a breezeway or similar
structure; or may be erected detached from the principal building. Any
accessory building attached to the principal building shall be considered as
part of the principal building and shall meet the requirements as specified for
the principal building in said district.
   (B)   Detached accessory buildings may be erected as provided below.
      (1)   Detached accessory buildings may be located in the side yards, but
shall not be located in the required side yards.
      (2)   Detached accessory buildings may be located in the rear yard and
shall not occupy more than 30% of the required rear yard; provided, however,
that, this regulation shall not be interpreted as to prohibit the construction
of a 440 square foot private garage on a minimum rear yard. Such buildings
erected in a rear yard shall not be located closer than four feet to any
property line and on corner lots shall also comply with the setback
requirements for side street yards as specified in §
154.049 of this chapter.
      (3)   Unless otherwise specifically permitted, any detached accessory
building requiring direct access from an alley shall be located a minimum of 15
feet from the said alley line.
      (4)   Regardless of its location, a detached accessory building shall
maintain a distance of eight feet (wall to wall) from any principal building or
structure, or other detached accessory building situated on the same lot.
   (C)   No accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes unless
specifically permitted.
   (D)   Mobile homes and manufactured homes, whether converted to real estate
or not, shall not be utilized as an accessory building.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.054 GENERAL EXCEPTIONS AND PERMITTED INTRUSIONS INTO REQUIRED YARDS.
   (A)   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed,
except for accessory buildings as specified in §
154.053 of this chapter and except for the following intrusions which may
project into any required yard to the extent indicated; provided that, such
projections are not closer than three feet to any lot line.
   (B)   Cornices, canopies, eaves, wing walls and other architectural
features, may project a distance not exceeding setback distances.
   (C)   Bay windows, balconies, unenclosed porches and chimneys may project a
distance not exceeding setback distances.
   (D)   An uncovered stair and necessary landings may project a distance not
to exceed setback distances.
   (E)   Air conditioning units may project a distance not exceeding five feet.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.055 STRUCTURES PERMITTED ABOVE HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The building height limitations of this chapter shall be modified as
follows.
   (A)   Antennas; barns, silos and other accessory agricultural structures;
belfries, chimneys, church steeples; conveyors; cooling towers and ventilators;
cupolas; derricks; domes; elevator bulkheads; fire and hose towers; flagpoles;
grain elevators; monuments, ornamental towers and spires; observation towers;
radio and television towers, mast and aerials; smokestacks; stage towers or
scenery lofts; tanks; transmission towers; water towers; windmills; or
necessary mechanical apparatus may be erected to any safe height not in
conflict with existing or hereafter adopted regulations of the county.
   (B)   Public, semi-public or public service buildings, hospitals,
institutions or schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a
height not exceeding 60 feet and churches and temples may be erected to a
height not exceeding 75 feet if the building setback from side and rear yard
lines heretofore established an additional foot for each two feet of building
height above the height limit otherwise imposed in the district in which the
building is located.
   (C)   Single-family and two-family dwellings may be increased in height by
not more than ten feet when the side and rear yards are increased over the yard
requirements of the district in which they are located by not less than ten
feet, but they shall not exceed three stories in height.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.056 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Temporary buildings and structures incidental to construction work are
permitted in all districts, but only for the period of such work; provided,
however, basements and cellars shall not be occupied for dwelling purposes
until the building is completely enclosed.
   (B)   No commercial business shall be carried on in a mobile home or trailer
constructed as a mobile home, except when used as a temporary office upon
obtaining a permit from the Zoning Administrator for a period not to exceed 180
days.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.057 CARETAKERS QUARTERS.
   Caretaker’s quarters are permitted in all districts, if included in the
principal structure; providing, said use is incidental to the principal use.
This provision shall not be construed to allow two dwellings to be located on
one parcel.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.058 PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without current license
plates shall not be parked or stored on any lot in a Class “R” District or
platted residential subdivision, except in completely enclosed building or
within a side or rear yard enclosed on all sides with a sight obscuring fence.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.059 LIGHTING CONTROLS.
   Any lighting fixture used for the illumination of signs, parking areas,
swimming pools or for any other purpose shall be arranged in such a manner as
to direct the light away from neighboring residential properties and away from
the vision of passing motorists and pedestrians.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.060 HOME OCCUPATIONS AND HOME PROFESSIONAL OFFICES.
   The establishment and continuance of a home occupation or home professional
office shall be subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   Customary home occupations shall be deemed to include the following:
millinery, dressmaking; tailoring; laundering; preserving and home cooking;
handicraft; barber and beauty shops; and studios, such as painting, sculpture,
instrumental or vocal music, dance and literature, including teaching and
practice.
   (B)   Occupations of a professional nature shall be deemed to include the
following: accountancy, architecture, art, dentistry, engineering, industrial
design, insurance brokerage, medicine, music, planning, psychology, science,
teaching, theology, writing or other related professions.
   (C)   No persons other than people residing on the premises, shall be
engaged in such occupation or office; and no colleagues or associates shall use
such office.
   (D)   The use shall be operated entirely within the resident’s dwelling unit
or permitted accessory structure on the property. On-site sales, service and
training is allowed by appointment only and shall be limited to 12 customer
visits to the premises daily. Since the applicant is limited to two on-site
parking spaces, only two concurrent appointments may be allowed at any one
time.
   (E)   The use shall be limited to no more than 600 square feet of area of
either the dwelling or an accessory structure. However, if the home occupation
or home professional office is located in the dwelling, it shall consume no
more than 30% of the floor area of the living unit. Living area may include a
finished basement.
   (F)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building or
premises, or other visible evidence of a home occupation or home professional
office other than one sign, as provided in §§
154.120 through
154.125 of this chapter.
   (G)   A home occupation or home professional office shall be situated
entirely within the principal dwelling or an accessory structure.
   (H)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation or home
professional office in greater volumes than would normally be expected in a
residential neighborhood, and any need for parking generated by the conduct of
such occupation or office shall be met off the street and other than in a
required front yard. There shall be no more than two on-site parking spaces
provided for patrons.
   (I)   No equipment or process shall be used which creates noise, vibration,
glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference detectable to the normal senses
off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in a single-family dwelling, or
outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other than a single-family residence.
In the case of electrical interference, no equipment or process shall be used
which creates visual or audible interference in any radio or television
receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuation in line voltage off the
premises.
   (J)   No mechanical or electrical equipment shall be used other than that
which is normally used for purely domestic or household purposes.
   (K)   No outdoor storage of materials or equipment used in the occupation
shall be permitted.
   (L)   Occupations shall not include the use or storage of tractor-trailers,
semi-trucks or heavy equipment such as construction equipment.
   (M)   There shall be no advertising for the business that includes the
address of the occupation. Post Office boxes, telephone numbers and city name
may be identified.
   (N)   More than one occupation is allowed per property; however, the sum of
the total area, signage, parking and employee limitations of the property shall
not exceed the limitations set by this chapter for a single occupation.
   (O)   The home occupation-zoning permit will automatically be discontinued
if the property is sold, leased, rented or transferred to another party or
entity.
   (P)   A home occupation permit may be issued by the county’s Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.061 RURAL ENTERPRISE BUSINESS.
   (A)   Rural enterprise businesses are intended to be clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the premises as a single-family dwelling.
   (B)   The establishment and continuance of a rural enterprise business shall
be subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   Any new rural enterprise business established after the effective
date of this section shall be situated on a property where there is a single-
family dwelling occupied by the owner/operator of the rural enterprise
business.
      (2)   Rural enterprise businesses may include the following: assembly,
processing, fabrication, repair of cars, light trucks, agricultural equipment
and household appliances, lawn service, contractor’s equipment storage, auto
body shops.
      (3)   There shall be no evidence that a rural enterprise business is
being conducted on the premises due to outdoor displays or storage, excessive
noise, obnoxious odors, electrical disturbances or considerable increase in
vehicular traffic.
      (4)   The establishment of a rural enterprise business shall not have a
negative impact on the public road servicing the property by causing increased
dust problems or damage to the roads. The County Engineer and the Zoning
Administrator shall determine this impact after analyzing the proposed
business.
      (5)   The total area devoted to the rural enterprise business shall not
exceed one acre, including the building, parking areas and any outside storage
area. All work performed on the property must occur within the building
situated on the property.
      (6)   The total square footage of the dwelling or accessory building
dedicated to the business shall be limited as follows:
 
Up to 1.99 acres 600 square foot
2 to 2.99 acres  1,000 square foot
3 to 4.99 acres  1,200 square foot
5 to 9.99 acres  1,500 square foot
10 acres plus    2,000 square foot
 
      (7)   More than one occupation is allowed per property; however, the sum
of the total area, signage, parking and employee limitations of the property
shall not exceed the limitations set by this chapter for a single occupation.
The portion of the business located in the dwelling is limited to 25% of the
living area of the dwelling. Living area may include a finished basement.
      (8)   The number of outside employees and patron parking spaces shall be
limited a follows:
 
Acres            Employees Patron Parking
Up to 1.99 acres 1         2
2 to 2.99 acres  2         2
3 to 4.99 acres  3         3
5 to 9.99 acres  4         4
10 acres plus    5         5
 
      (9)   The rural enterprise business shall provide one parking space for
each employee. No on- street parking shall be permitted in connection with a
rural enterprise business. Patrons and employees shall park in the designated
parking area.
      (10)   Any items that are to be stored outside shall be stored in the
rear yard of the rural enterprise business and the items shall be enclosed
within a sight-obscuring fence and shall not be visible from an adjoining
parcel or from the private or public road. This shall not be construed to
prohibit parking spaces for employees and patron’s operable vehicles.
      (11)   All hazardous wastes, by-products and emissions must be stored
and/or disposed of in conformance with federal, state and local regulations.
      (12)   One on-site sign shall be allowed as provided in §
154.122 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.062 NUISANCES.
   (A)   No nuisance will be permitted to exist in any district. A NUISANCE is
defined as any structure or use in violation of this chapter and in addition
any use or structure which injures or endangers health, safety or welfare or
constitutes or creates a fire hazard or obstructs or endangers the use of
streets or public ways or is offensive to the senses.
   (B)   A nuisance created prior to and maintained after the effective date of
this chapter shall not be considered a non-conforming use as specified in §§
154.155 through
154.164 of this chapter. The following structures and uses of property are
declared to be a nuisance:
      (1)   Storage, accumulation, keeping or allowing to remain of trash,
garbage, junk, scrap and wrecked, worn out, broken or inoperative or partially
destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind, including
motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery and equipment;
      (2)   Open privies, vaults or cesspools;
      (3)   Accumulation of any matter which produces a foul or noxious odor,
or serves as a haven for rats, or is so unsightly as to depreciate property
values or create a fire hazard; and
      (4)   Owning, possessing or harboring any dog or other animal which
frequently or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks or makes
other sounds which creates noise disturbances across a boundary between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.063 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   No land or building in any district shall be used in any manner so as
to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable
conditions or hazards, or the potential thereof, including fire, explosion,
noise, vibration; smoke, dust, odor or other forms of air pollution; water
pollution; heat, cold, dampness, wastes, illumination, contamination;
electrical or other substance, condition or element in such a manner or in such
amount as to adversely affect the surrounding area of adjoining premises.
   (B)   Subject to the foregoing, any use permitted by this chapter may be
undertaken and maintained if it conforms to the following performance
standards.
      (1)   The standards and controls designated by the state’s Air Pollution
Control Commission concerning air emission shall be followed.
      (2)   No electrical disturbance shall be tolerated which affects
adversely the operation at any point of any equipment other than that of the
creator of such disturbance.
      (3)   All activities involving, and all storage of, inflammable and
explosive materials shall be provided at any point with adequate safety devices
against the hazard of fire and explosion and adequate firefighting and fire
suppression equipment and devices standard to the industry. All flammable
substances involved in any activity established in the district shall be
handled in conformance with the latest edition of the Fire Protection Code,
published by American Insurance Association, and the relevant provisions of
state and local laws and regulations shall also apply.
      (4)   Every use shall be so operated that there is no emission of heat,
glare or radiation visible or discernible beyond the boundary of the site.
      (5)   No liquid or solid wastes shall be discharged at any point into any
public sewer, private sewage disposal system or stream, or into the ground,
except in accordance with standards approved by the County Health Department or
the State Health Department, as the case may be, or standards equivalent to
those approved by said authorities for similar uses, of any materials of such
nature or temperature as can contaminate any water supply, interfere with the
orderly operation of public sewage collection and treatment systems, or
otherwise cause the emission of dangerous or offensive elements.
      (6)   (a)   When it has been demonstrated that an odor is an
objectionable odor, the Zoning Administrator and at least two other non-
interested persons must evaluate the odor to determine if it complies with this
section.
         (b)   No operation or person shall cause, permit or allow the emission
of an objectionable odor in offensive concentrations and frequencies as
determined by the County Zoning Administrator.
      (7)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated on private property
any source of sound in such a manner as to create a sound level which is
considered objectionable.
      (8)   Every use shall be so operated that the ground vibration inherently
or recurrently generated is not perceptible, without instruments, at any point
of any boundary line of the lot on which the use is located.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.064 COMMERCIAL CAMPGROUNDS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   The following standards and requirements shall govern the design and
development of a commercial campground or recreational vehicle park.
   (A)   A tract of land considered for a commercial campground or recreational
vehicle park shall comprise an area of not less than five acres of gross
development area.
   (B)   The maximum density allowed for the gross development area shall be 15
recreational vehicles sites per gross acre.
   (C)   Sites in a park shall be occupied only by camping units and tents
suitable for temporary habitation and used for travel, vacation and recreation
purposes.
   (D)   No camping unit or tent shall be used as a permanent place of abode,
dwelling or business, or for indefinite periods of time. Camping units or tents
shall not be on the site, whether occupied or not, for no more than 180 days
during any 12-month period.
   (E)   No permanent external appurtenances such as carports, deck, cabanas or
patios may be attached to any recreational vehicle.
   (F)   Any action towards removal of wheels of a recreational vehicle, except
for temporary purposes of repair, or placement of the unit on a foundation is
prohibited.
   (G)   Each recreational vehicle site shall have a minimum area of 1,400
square feet; provided that, sites devoted solely for tent camping shall have a
minimum area of 750 square feet. Each site shall contain a stabilized vehicular
parking pad of gravel, marl, paving or other suitable material.
   (H)   A minimum of 8% of the gross development area for the recreational
vehicle park shall be set aside and developed as common open space areas for
open or enclosed recreation facilities.
   (I)   Recreational vehicle sites and off-street parking spaces shall not be
located within any required yard or setback. Where needed to enhance aesthetics
or to ensure public safety, the recreational vehicle park shall be enclosed by
a fence, wall, landscape screening, earth mounds or by other buffer designs
required by the Board which will complement the landscape and assure
compatibility with the adjacent environment.
   (J)   Display signs for recreational vehicle parks shall be permitted
subject to the provisions of §§
154.120 through
154.125 of this chapter for mobile home signage.
   (K)   In connection with use of any recreational vehicle park, no parking,
loading or maneuvering incidental to parking or loading shall be permitted on
any public street, sidewalk, required buffer, right-of-way or on any public
grounds, or on any private grounds not part of the park, unless the owner has
given written permission for such use. Each park shall provide off-street
parking, loading and maneuvering space, located and scaled so that the
prohibitions above may be observed, and park owners shall be held responsible
for violations of these requirements.
   (L)   At least one and one-half parking spaces shall be provided in the park
per recreational vehicle site. At least one parking space shall be provided at
each such site.
   (M)   All recreational vehicle parks shall be provided with safe and
convenient vehicular access from an improved public street. It shall be the
responsibility of the developer to provide the necessary access in all cases
where there is no existing improved street or road connecting the park site
with an improved existing public street or road.
   (N)   Streets in recreational vehicle parks shall be private, but shall be
constructed with a stabilizing roadway of gravel, marl, paving or other
suitable material, and shall meet the following minimum stabilized roadway
width requirements:
      (1)   One way, no parking: 11 feet;
      (2)   One way, with parking on one side: 18 feet;
      (3)   Two way, no parking: 24 feet;
      (4)   Two way, with parking on one side: 26 feet; and
      (5)   Two way, with parking on both sides: 31 feet.
   (O)   Entrances and exits to recreational vehicle parks shall be designed
for safe and convenient movement of traffic into and out of the park and to
minimize marginal friction with free movement of traffic on adjacent streets.
All traffic into or out of the park shall be through such entrances and exits.
No entrances or exits shall require a turn at an acute angle for vehicles
moving in the direction intended and radii of curbs and pavements at
intersections shall be such to facilitate easy turning movements for vehicles
with trailers attached. No entrance or exit from a park shall discharge traffic
into any Class “R” District or platted residential subdivision nor require
movement of traffic from the park through a Class “R” District or platted
residential subdivision. The location and design of all intersections of such
entrances or exits with public streets shall be approved by the County
Engineer. If turning lanes or other forms of traffic controls are deemed
necessary by the Board, the developer shall provide the necessary improvements,
subject to approval of their location and design by the County Engineer.
   (P)   Condition of soil, groundwater level, drainage and topography shall
not create hazards to the property or the health or safety of the occupants.
The site shall not be exposed to objectionable smoke, noise, odors or other
adverse influences, and no portion of the park subject to flooding, subsidence
or erosion shall be used for any purpose which would expose persons or property
to hazards.
   (Q)   Exposed ground surface in all parts of the park shall be paved,
covered with stone screening, or other solid material, or protected with a
vegetative growth capable of preventing soil erosion and objectionable dust.
All areas not used for access, parking circulation, buildings or service shall
be completely and permanently landscaped and the entire site maintained in good
condition. Planting of trees and shrubs is required to the extent needed to
provide for:
      (1)   Screening of objectionable views;
      (2)   Adequate shade; and
      (3)   A suitable setting for the park, as well as neighboring uses.
   (R)   Management headquarters, recreational facilities, toilets, dumping
stations, showers, laundry facilities and other uses and structures customarily
incidental to operation of a commercial campground and recreational vehicle
park are permitted as accessory uses to the park. In addition, stores,
restaurants, beauty parlors, barber shops, recreational vehicle storage areas
and other convenience establishments may be permitted as accessory uses in
commercial campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks where such uses are
specifically approved by the Board, subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   Such establishments and the parking areas primarily related to the
operations shall not occupy more than 10% of the gross area of the park.
      (2)   All buildings shall be constructed in compliance with state and
local codes and regulations.
      (3)   The structures housing such facilities shall not be directly
accessible from any public street, but shall be accessible only from a street
within the park.
   (S)   Cooking shelters, barbecue pits and fireplaces shall be located,
constructed, maintained and used so as to minimize fire hazards and smoke
nuisances both on the property on which it is used, and on neighboring
property. No open fire shall be permitted, except in facilities provided; no
open fire shall be left unattended, and no fuel shall be used or material
burned which emits dense smoke or objectionable odors.
   (T)   (1)   In recreational vehicle parks where recreational vehicle sites
are leased or otherwise assigned on a long-term basis, the limits of each site
shall be clearly marked on the ground by permanent steel or iron rods driven
into the ground with the top of the of said rods being flush with the finish
lot grade. Location of site limits on the ground shall be approximately the
same as shown on the approved plans. The degree of accuracy obtainable by
working with a scale on the plan and then a tape on the ground is acceptable.
      (2)   Precise engineering of site limits is not required either on the
plans or on the ground. This is not to be construed as permitting sites of
lesser size than the required minimum or permitting lesser yard or separation
dimensions then set forth elsewhere in this section.
   (U)   Recreational vehicle sites intended solely for tent camping units
shall be located in separate areas designated for tent camping only.
   (V)   The layout of a park shall be such the “destruction” of the natural
vegetation and topography of the area is minimized.
   (W)   In addition to the foregoing, other conditions, requirements or
limitations concerning the design, development and operation of a recreational
vehicle park may be imposed as may be deemed necessary for the protection of
adjacent properties and the public interest.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.065 BED AND BREAKFAST HOMES.
   The establishment and continuance of a bed and breakfast home shall be
subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   A water analysis of the source of water for human usage shall be
prepared to determine that the bacteriological and chemical condition of the
water is classified as “safe” for human consumption. The analysis shall be
prepared by a licensed testing laboratory. A copy of the analysis shall be
presented to the Office of Planning and Zoning for verification of the
condition of the water prior to the occupancy by the public, as well as
annually on the date of issuance of the conditional use permit, as is required
hereby.
   (B)   The private sewage disposal system for the bed and breakfast home
shall be brought into compliance with the current standards set forth by the
county’s Board of Health for the structure prior to being opened to the public.
   (C)   Smoke detectors shall be operable in every room occupied by the
public, as well as in all corridors of the areas of the structure utilized by
the public. A centralized fire alarm system may be substituted for the
aforementioned smoke detectors.
   (D)   In the event the bed and breakfast home provides facilities for the
public on the second or higher level of the structure, one of the following
shall be provided as an area of refuge or secondary egress on each level. There
shall be a sign in each room occupied by the public denoting the emergency
escape route and the area of refuge or secondary egress provided:
      (1)   One or more balcony areas;
      (2)   A fire ladder to the ground level;
      (3)   A fire escape to the ground level; and
      (4)   An interior secondary stairway to the main floor of the structure.
Said secondary stairway should be remote from the location of the primary
stairway.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.066 GRADING AND EXCAVATING.
   The removal, addition or relocation, in any 12-month period, of soil or
other fill materials from any single parcel owned or controlled by any single
entity, including joint tenants or co-tenants, is subject to the following
submittals, when the following thresholds of area disturbed are exceeded: up to
14% slope, one or more acres; 14 to 30% slopes, 5,000 or more square foot; and
30 to 50%, 1,000 or more square feet.
   (A)   An Erosion and Sediment Control Plan which demonstrates how the
development of the site will:
      (1)   Keep erosion on site to allowable soil loss limits as per NRCS Soil
Survey;
      (2)   Prevent siltation of waterways and loss of sensitive soils;
      (3)   Prevent deterioration/damage to man made structures;
      (4)   Protect wildlife habitat and protective vegetation;
      (5)   Erosion and Sedimentation Plan must meet NPDES requirements; and
      (6)   The plan must minimize excessive cut and fill. Use phased grading
techniques where applicable.
   (B)   A Storm Water Control Plan that demonstrates how the development of
the site will:
      (1)   Avoid alteration of existing drainage patterns. See Iowa Drainage
Rules; and
      (2)   Prevent increase in storm runoff or velocity from site that would
exceed waterway capacity or damage to natural/human-made environment.
   (C)   Existing sites shall not be expanded without first obtaining the
required approvals denoted above.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.067 TOWERS AND ANTENNAS; PLACEMENT.
   (A)   The following standards and requirements shall govern the design,
development and placement of towers and antennas.
      (1)   The following information shall, in addition to other required
information, accompany the conditional use permit application form:
         (a)   A site plan, drawn to scale, identifying the site boundary;
tower location, tower height; guy wires and anchors; existing and proposed
structures, including accessory structures; photographs or elevation drawings
depicting design of proposed structures, parking, fences and landscape plan; as
well as existing uses on abutting parcels;
         (b)   A report from a structural engineer containing the following:
            1.   A description of the tower, including a description of the
design characteristics and materials;
            2.   Documentation to establish that the tower has sufficient
structural integrity for the proposed uses at the proposed location and meets
the minimum safety requirements in Electronics Industries Association (EIA)
Standard 222; and
            3.   The general capacity of the tower in terms of the number and
type of antennas it is designed to accommodate.
         (c)   Evidence that the applicant contacted owners of all existing or
approved towers within one-half-mile radius of the proposed new tower site,
including county-owned property, and that the equipment for which the tower is
being constructed cannot be technologically or structurally accommodated on an
existing or approved tower;
         (d)   Evidence that a valid FCC license for the proposed activity has
been issued;
         (e)   A line of sight analysis showing the potential visual and
aesthetic impacts on adjacent residential districts;
         (f)   A written agreement to remove the tower and/or antenna within
180 days after cessation of use; and
         (g)   Documentation that the proposed tower site and height have been
approved by the appropriate airport authority.
      (2)   Any applicant must show that all of the following applicable
conditions are met.
         (a)   Prior to consideration of a permit for location on private
property which must be acquired, application must shown that available publicly
owned sites, and available privately-owned sites, and unsuitable for operation
of the facility under applicable telecommunication regulations and the
applicant’s technical design requirements. A tower is not allowed if
technically suitable space can be found on an existing telecommunications tower
within one-half-mile radius of the proposed new tower site.
         (b)   The applicant must show that the new tower is designed to
accommodate applicant’s future demand for additional antennas.
         (c)   All towers and telecommunication facilities shall be of
camouflage design standards. Examples of camouflage facility include, but are
not limited to, architecturally screened roof-mounted antennas, antennas
integrated into architectural elements, telecommunication towers designed to
blend into the surrounding environment or to look other than a tower, such as
light poles, power poles and trees. At a minimum, all towers not required by
FAA, painting or markings shall have an exterior finish which is galvanized or
painted dull blue, gray or black.
         (d)   The setbacks for towers on all sides shall be a distance equal
to the height of the tower.
         (e)   All towers shall be located a minimum distance of equal to or
greater than the height of the tower from adjacent dwellings or structures
other than those associated with the tower facility.
         (f)   The base of any tower shall be screened from view with a solid
screening fence a minimum of six feet in height.
   (B)   (1)   Conditional use. A tower may be permitted upon determination
that all of the applicable conditions in this chapter are met.
      (2)   Height limitations. Towers are a permitted conditional use in the
following district with the specified height limitations:
         (a)   Residential (R-1, R-2), free-standing tower with height not
exceeding 100 feet is a permitted conditional use; height exceeding 100 feet
requires a special exception;
         (b)   Commercial (C-1, C-2), free-standing or guyed tower with heights
not exceeding 180 feet is a permitted conditional use; height exceeding 180
feet required a special exception;
         (c)   Industrial (M-1, M-2), free-standing or guyed tower with height
not exceeding 360 feet is a permitted conditional use; height exceeding 360
feet requires a special exception;
         (d)   Agricultural (A-1), free-standing or guyed tower with height not
exceeding 500 feet is a permitted conditional use; height exceeding 500 feet
requires a special exception;
         (e)   If a special exception for additional tower height is required,
total height will not exceed 150% of the maximum height permitted in the county
as a conditional use. The applicant must demonstrate that additional height
above that permitted by this chapter is necessary for service to residents of
the county;
         (f)   Telecommunication towers erected on existing structures other
than telecommunication towers shall be allowed in any district; provided, the
height of the tower does not exceed one-third of the height of the existing
structure and the total of the existing structure and the tower does not exceed
200 feet; and
         (g)   All tower height allowances outlined in divisions (B)(2)(a)
through (B)(2)(f) above are subject to approval from the Municipal Airport
Commission if located within the airport flight path.
      (3)   Application requirements. The applicant for a conditional use
permit for construction of a tower or placement of a commercial
telecommunication antenna on an existing structure other than a tower
previously permitted shall file an application with the County Zoning
Administrator accompanied by a fee in an amount as shall be set by the County
Council from time to time. The application shall include the following
documents:
         (a)   A site plan, drawn to scale, identifying the site boundary;
tower location; tower height; guy wires and anchors; existing and proposed
structure, including accessory structure; photographs or elevation drawing
depicting design of proposed structure, parking, fences and landscape plan; and
existing uses on abutting parcels. A site plan is not required if antenna is to
be mounted on an approved existing structure;
         (b)   A current map showing locations of applicant’s antennas,
facilities, existing towers and proposed towers which are reflected in public
in public records, serving any property within the county;
         (c)   A report from a structural engineer containing the following:
            1.   A description of the tower, including a description of the
characteristics and material;
            2.   Documentation to establish that the tower has sufficient
structure integrity for the proposed uses at the proposed location and meets
the minimum safety requirements in Electronics Industries Association (EIA)
Standard 222, “Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna
Support Structures”; and
            3.   The general capacity of the tower is terms of the number and
type of antennas it is designed to accommodate.
         (d)   If applicant is other than the site owner, written authorization
from site owner; there shall be in the form of a written lease, easement,
licenses or other agreements between the site owner and the applicant and
written authorization from the site owner for the applicant for the
application:
            1.   Identification of the owners of all antennas and equipment to
be located at the site;
            2.   Evidence that the applicant contacted owners of all existing
or approved towers within a one-half radius of the proposed new tower site,
including county-owned property, and that the equipment for which the tower is
being constructed cannot be technologically or structurally accommodated on and
existing or approved landowner towers;
            3.   Evidence that a valid FCC license for the proposed activity
has been issued, if required;
            4.   A line of sight analysis showing the potential visual and
aesthetic impacts on adjacent residential districts; if locations near urban
area are dictates necessary;
            5.   A written agreement to remove the tower and/or antenna within
365 days after cessation of use; and
            6.   Additional information as required to determine that all
applicable conditions of this chapter have been met.
         (e)   Documentation that the proposed tower site and height have been
approved by the appropriate Airport Commission, if the tower is within a
defined flight path and exceeds height limitations associated with the airport
that could be impacted.
      (4)   Applicable conditions. An applicant must show that all of the
following applicable conditions are met.
         (a)   The applicant must show that the new tower is designed to
accommodate applicant’s future demand for additional antennas.
         (b)   The applicant must show that all applicable health, nuisance,
noise, fire, safety code requirements are met.
         (c)   For towers on county property, the applicant must file with the
county zoning administrator a written indemnification of the county and proof
of liability insurance or other proof of financial ability to respond to claim
up to $1,000,000 in the aggregate which may arise from operation of the
facility during its life, in form approved by the County Attorney. This
information shall be updated annually by the applicant.
         (d)   Land use regulations, visibility, fencing, screening,
landscaping, parking access, lot size, exterior illumination, sign, storage and
all other general zoning regulations, except setback and height, shall apply to
the tower.
         (e)   For free-standing or guyed towers, setback on all sides shall be
a distance equal to the height of the tower.
         (f)   To limit climbing access to the tower, a fence six feet in
height with a locking portal or an anti-climbing device may be required around
the tower base. Fencing around the tower base is not required if the tower is a
self contained, lattice or tubular tower.
         (g)   All equipment used for installation shall follow an approved
route to the site. The route shall be approved by the County Engineer.
         (h)   The wind energy system operation shall not cause interference to
the radio and television reception on adjoining property.
         (i)   The placement of all wind turbine generators (WTGs) shall comply
with the following.
            1.   Setback distance with respect to property lines shall not
apply to wind turbines located within a wind farm where the property line
nearest to any given wind turbine define and separate properties belonging to
two or more participating landowners.
            2.   With respect to a wind turbine, all setback and separation
distance shall be defined relative to the nearest surface of the wind turbine
support tower as measured at the ground level.
            3.   Not withstanding any other consideration including calculated
sound levels no commercial wind turbine shall be located at a distance less
than 1,000 feet from the nearest occupied dwelling. Wind generator towers may
be setback less than 1,000 feet from a dwelling if the property owner signs a
wavier agreeing to the reduced setback distance. However, the wind generator
tower shall not be located closer than the distance equal to the height of the
tower.
            4.   Divisions (B)(4)(i)1. and (B)(4)(i)3. above should be
contained in agreement with property owners.
         (j)   The following setback and separation distance shall apply to
wind turbine generators.
            1.   Any wind turbine within a wind farm shall be located not less
than 1,000 feet, as measured from the nearest dwelling to the nearest wind
turbine tower, from a dwelling as located at the time that the wind turbines
are constructed. Wind generator towers may be setback less than 1,000 feet from
a dwelling if the property owner signs a wavier agreeing to the reduced
distance. However, the wind generator tower shall not be located closer than
the distance equal to the height of the tower.
            2.   Any wind turbine within a wind farm shall be located not less
than 500 feet from the nearest non-dwelling, principal or secondary structure.
            3.   Any wind turbine within a wind farm shall be located not less
than the total height from a road right-of-way line.
            4.   Any wind turbine within a wind farm may be located straddling
the property lines separating two participating properties.
            5.   Any wind turbine within a wind farm shall be located not less
than the total height from property lines abutting non-participating
properties.
      (5)   Inspection. At least every 24 months, every tower shall be
inspected by an expert who is regularly involved in the maintenance, inspection
and/or erection of towers. At a minimum, this inspection shall be conducted in
accordance with the tower inspection check list provided in the Electronics
Industries Association (EIA) Standard 222, “Structural Standard for Steel
Antenna Support Structures”. A copy of such inspection record shall be provided
to the county.
      (6)   Abandonment. In the event the use of any tower has been
discontinued for a period of 365 consecutive days, the tower shall be deemed to
be abandoned. Determination of the date of abandonment shall be made by the
County Zoning Administrator. Upon such abandonment, the tower owner shall have
an additional 365 days within which to reactive the use of the tower, or
dismantle and remove the tower. If the tower is not dismantled and removed as
required, the county may do so and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax, pursuant to Iowa Code §
331.384(1); exceptions to this standard shall include circumstances associated
with:
         (a)   Forced majeure (i.e., extraordinary events, circumstances beyond
control, acts of nature and the like); or
         (b)   Submittal of a certification of non-abandonment by turbine owner
of the county.
      (7)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         BLADE. An element of a wind turbine which acts as a part of an airfoil
assembly, thereby extracting thought rotation, kinetic energy directly from the
wind.
         SUB-STATION. An electrical construction designed to collect and modify
electrical energy produced by the wind turbines for the purpose of supplying it
to the local electrical utility.
         TOTAL HEIGHT. The height from grade to the highest vertical point of
the swept rotor arc. In the case of a wind turbine with a horizontal axis
rotor, the TOTAL HEIGHT includes the distance from grade to the rotor axis of
rotation within the nacelle, plus one-half the swept rotor diameter.
         TOWER FOUNDATION. The tower support structure, below grade, that
supports the entire weight of the wind turbine.
         WIND FARM. One or more wind turbine generators which are connected to
the transmission of a local distribution grid. WIND FARMS shall include, but
not limited to, wind turbine generators, operations and maintenance building,
meteorological towers, collector grids, roads and substations.
         WIND TOWER. The tubular structure, above grade, that supports the
nacelle and rotor assembly.
         WIND TURBINE GENERATOR (WTG). A wind turbine generator is a device
designed to extract kinetic energy from the wind and supply it in the form of
electrical energy that is suitable for use by the electrical grid.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
SPECIFIC DISTRICTS
§ 154.080 AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION DISTRICT (A-1).
   (A)   Intent. The Class “A-1” District is intended to preserve the land best
suited for agricultural production by protecting prime agricultural lands in
farmable tracts from the encroachment of scattered residential, commercial and
industrial development; to promote efficiency and economy in the delivery of
public services by restricting non-farm development in unincorporated areas of
the county and to encourage development in areas where services are provided or
can efficiently be provided.
   (B)   Principal uses. The following principal uses shall be permitted in a
Class “A-1” District:
      (1)   Any customary agricultural use;
      (2)   Single-family dwellings at a maximum density of two dwellings per
quarter-quarter section;
      (3)   Sanitary landfills, such to approval by the state’s Department of
Natural Resources and the County Board; provided that, no such use or structure
shall be located closer than 1,320 feet to any Class “R” District or platted
residential subdivision or dwelling other than that of the lessee or owner of
the site; and
      (4)   Construction and demolition waste disposal sites, subject to
approval of the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the County Board.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses shall be permitted in
a Class “A-1” District, when authorized in accordance with the requirements of
§§
154.175 through
154.185 of this chapter:
      (1)   Commercial composting facilities, subject to approval of the
state’s Department of Natural Resources standards and administrative rules;
      (2)   Essential governmental structures and uses, when operating
requirements necessitate locating in the district; provided that, the premises
upon which such use is erected shall be appropriately landscaped, screened and
maintained so as to be in harmony with the general appearance of the
surrounding area, and not objectionable as to noise, odor, vibration or other
disturbances;
      (3)   Transformer stations, booster stations, utility stations and radio
or television transmitter and towers, and broadcasting stations, when operating
requirements necessitate locating in the district; provided, there is no yard
or garage for service or storage, or any building for general administrative or
sales offices; and, further provided that, the premises upon which such use is
erected shall be appropriately landscaped, screened and maintained so as to be
in harmony with the general appearance of the surrounding area, and not
objectionable as to noise, odor, vibration or other disturbances. The minimum
lot area and setback may be waived by the Board only on finding that the waiver
will not create a detrimental effect on adjacent properties;
      (4)   Sewage disposal facilities, subject to approval by the state’s
Department of Natural Resources; provided that, no such structure shall be
located closer than 750 feet to any Class “R” District or platted residential
subdivision or dwelling other than that of the lessee or owner of the site;
      (5)   Commercial stables, riding academies and clubs; provided that, not
more than one animal and its immature offspring per acre of pasture for the
first two acres of pasture and two animals per each additional acre of pasture
shall be permitted; and, further provided that, no such structure shall be
located closer than 50 feet to any property line, nor closer than 25 feet to
any dwelling on the site. The area devoted to such uses shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition, and shall be maintained so as drainage will not
affect the health and safety of adjacent property owners;
      (6)   Commercial kennels and veterinary hospitals or clinics; provided
that, no such structure or exercising runway shall be located closer than 200
feet from any Class “R” District or platted residential subdivision or dwelling
other than that of the lessee or owner of the site;
      (7)   Churches and other places of worship, including parish houses and
Sunday school buildings;
      (8)   Cemeteries, including mausoleums and crematories; provided that, no
such mausoleum and crematory shall be located closer than 200 feet from any
property line; and, further provided that, any new cemetery shall contain an
area of five acres or more;
      (9)   Public schools and colleges, and private schools and colleges
having equivalent curriculum;
      (10)   Day care nurseries and nursery schools; provided that, for each
child there shall be a minimum of 35 square feet of usable floor space,
exclusive of wash rooms, toilets, kitchens and hallways; and, further provided
that, for each child there shall be a minimum of 100 square feet of usable
outdoor play space, which space shall be confined to the rear yard of the
property and be completely enclosed by a fence;
      (11)   Mines, quarries, sand and gravel pits, portable sawmills and
related facilities required for obtaining, processing, storing and transporting
minerals, raw materials and timber at their point of origin, subject to
approval of the state’s Natural Resources Council and the state’s Department of
Natural Resources; provided, the no such use shall be located closer than 500
feet from any Class “R” District or platted residential subdivision, or
dwelling other than that of the lessee or owner of the site. Any such use
existing at any time prior to the adoption of this chapter may be reopened,
expanded or extended, and continue to operate; provided that, where any part of
the operation is closer than the distance specified above, the operation may be
extended parallel to such other uses, but such extension shall not become
closer than such other uses. Where any such use is closer than 25 feet to a
street, and has a depth of greater than 30 feet, and the side adjacent to the
street has a slope steeper than two feet horizontally for each foot of depth, a
fence, retaining wall, embankment or other suitable protective barrier approved
by the County Engineer shall be constructed along that portion of the
excavation parallel to the street;
      (12)   Private light plane landing strips including crop dusting strips,
when laid out and operated in accordance with all applicable regulations of the
Federal Aviation Agency and when situated on a site containing not less than 30
acres;
      (13)   Temporary establishments or enterprises involving large
assemblages of people or automobiles including, but not limited to, carnivals,
circuses, rodeo grounds, show rings, livestock auction barns and yards, music
festivals, sports festivals and similar uses;
      (14)   Bed and breakfast homes, subject to the provisions of §
154.065 of this chapter;
      (15)   Rural enterprise businesses, subject to the provisions of §
154.061 of this chapter;
      (16)   Demolition rubble waste disposal sites; and
      (17)   Grading and excavating when development exceeds 5,000 square feet
on a site containing 14 to 30% slopes and/or when development exceeds 1,000
square feet on a site containing 30 to 50% slopes, subject to the provisions of
§
154.066 of this chapter.
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following accessory uses shall be permitted in a
Class “A-1” District:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate
to one of the permitted principal or conditional uses, unless otherwise
excluded;
      (2)   Agricultural buildings and structures including dams, equipment
sheds, outbuildings and other buildings, structures or erections which are
primarily adopted for use for agricultural purposes;
      (3)   Private recreational facilities including swimming pools, tennis
courts and other recreational facilities commonly accessory to a dwelling;
      (4)   Private parking facilities including garages, carports and other
parking spaces;
      (5)   Private stables, kennels and other structures for raising and
keeping animals and fowl; provided that, not more than one animal and its
immature offspring per acre of pasture for the first two acres of pasture and
two animals per each additional acre of pasture shall be permitted; and,
further provided that, no such structure shall be located closer than 50 feet
to any property line, nor closer than 25 feet to any dwelling on the site. The
area devoted to such uses shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and
shall be maintained so as drainage will not affect the health and safety of
adjacent property owners;
      (6)   All-weather school bus shelters permitted in the front yard subject
to the provisions of §§
154.051 and
154.052 of this chapter;
      (7)   Bathhouses, tool or storage sheds and non-habitable playhouses when
located in the rear yard;
      (8)   Fences, walls and hedges, subject to the provisions of §§
154.051 and
154.052 of this chapter;
      (9)   Display signs, outdoor advertising signs and billboards subject to
the provisions of §§
154.120 through
154.125 of this chapter;
      (10)   Home occupations and home professional offices, subject to the
provisions of §
154.060 of this chapter; and
      (11)   Roadside stands for the sale of agricultural produce grown on the
site, but only when adequate off-street parking is provided.
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading spaces
shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.100 through
154.105 of this chapter for permitted principal and conditional uses in a Class
“A-1” District.
   (F)   Height requirement. No maximum height is established for buildings and
structures in a Class “A-1” District; however, attention shall be directed to
the equipment limits of the various fire protection jurisdictions in respect to
stream heights and elevation assistance, and the obligation of any designer to
accommodate these limitations in the design of any building.
   (G)   Setback requirements. The setback requirement for dwellings and
structures in a Class “A-1” District shall be as follows:
 
Use                                 Setback Requirement
                                    Front Rear Side Side Street, Corner Lot
Churches, schools, other public or  50’ 40’40’40’
institutional buildings
Single-family dwelling              40’ 30’10’30’
Other permitted structures and uses 50’ 40’40’40’
 
   (H)   Lot size and coverage requirements. The minimum lot size and maximum
lot coverage for uses in a Class “A-1” District shall be as follows, except as
provided in §
154.047 of this chapter:
 
Use                                                        Minimum Lot
                                                           Area           Width
Churches, schools, other public or institutional buildings 2 acres        200’
Single-family dwelling                                     45,000 sq. ft. 150’
Other permitted structures and uses                        2 acres        175’
 
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.081 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1).
   (A)   Intent. The Class “R-1” District is intended to provide for the
development of single-family, non-farm residential dwellings. It is also
intended to provide adequate space for the installation of private well systems
and wastewater treatment facilities if access to public or common facilities is
not available.
   (B)   Principal uses. The following principal uses shall be permitted in the
Class “R-1” District:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, including summer cottages;
      (2)   Platted subdivisions for single-family only; provided, the
development of lots conforms to the density limits specified herein;
      (3)   Churches and other places of worship, including parish houses and
Sunday school buildings;
      (4)   Public schools and private schools having equivalent curriculum;
      (5)   Public recreational areas and facilities including parks,
playgrounds, golf courses, community centers and similar uses; and
      (6)   Mobile homes converted to real estate.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses shall be permitted in
a Class “R-1” District, when authorized in accordance with the requirements of
§§
154.175 through
154.185 of this chapter:
      (1)   Essential governmental structures and uses other than sanitary
landfills or uses similar in their scope or effects, when operating
requirements necessitate locating in the district; provided that, the premises
upon which such use is erected shall be appropriately landscaped, screened and
maintained so as to be in harmony with the general appearance of the
surrounding area, and not objectionable as to noise, odor, vibration or other
disturbances;
      (2)   Railroads, transformer stations, booster stations, utility stations
and radio or television transmitter and towers, when operating requirements
necessitate locating in the district; provided, there is no yard or garage for
service or storage, or any building for general administrative or sales
offices; provided that, any substation or building shall meet the front and
rear yard requirements for dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less
than 25 feet, and that two parking spaces per substation or one per employee at
the site be provided; and, further provided that, the premises upon which such
use is erected shall be appropriately landscaped, screened and maintained so as
to be in harmony with the general appearance of the surrounding area, and not
objectionable as to noise, odor, vibration or other disturbances. The minimum
lot area and front yard setback may be waived by the Board only on finding that
the waiver will not create a detrimental effect on adjacent properties;
      (3)   Private non-commercial recreational areas and facilities including
parks, playgrounds, golf courses, country clubs, tennis clubs, swim clubs and
similar uses. Miniature golf courses or driving ranges operated for a profit
are excluded;
      (4)   Day care nurseries and nursery schools; provided that, for each
child there shall be a minimum of 35 square feet of usable floor space,
exclusive of washrooms, toilets, kitchens and hallways; and, further provided
that, for each child there shall be a minimum of 100 square feet of usable
outdoor play space, which space shall be confined to the rear yard of the
property and be completely enclosed by a fence;
      (5)   Grading and excavating when development exceeds 5,000 square feet
on a site containing 14 to 30% slopes and/or when development exceeds 1,000
square feet on a site containing 30 to 50% slopes, when not associated with a
major or minor subdivision plat, subject to the provisions of §
154.066 of this chapter; and
      (6)   Mobile home park; provided that, the installation complies with
Iowa Code Chapter 435, as amended; has a water supply and sanitary sewage
collection and treatment system approved by the state’s Board of Health; has a
minimum area of 3,500 square feet for each mobile home space; has a maximum
density of ten units per acre; provides at least ten parking spaces, plus two
parking spaces for each mobile home site, that no mobile home shall be closer
than 25 feet to any property line of the mobile home park, and that no mobile
home shall be closer than 20 feet to another mobile home. Any person, firm or
corporation constructing, expanding, remodeling or altering a mobile home park
within the county and outside the limits of any incorporated city shall be
required to provide a concrete area of not less than 120 square feet per mobile
unit for patio. Necessary sidewalks shall be provided from patio to parking
area on each mobile home site. It shall be further required that any person,
firm or corporation constructing, expanding, remodeling or altering a mobile
home park in the county shall, when the mobile home park reaches a population
of 40 mobile homes or within five years, provide adequate storm protection for
residents of said park with a minimum of five square feet per person occupying
said mobile home park.
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following accessory uses shall be permitted in a
Class “R-1” District:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate
to one of the permitted principal or conditional uses, unless otherwise
excluded;
      (2)   Private recreational facilities including swimming pools, tennis
courts and other recreational facilities commonly accessory to a dwelling;
      (3)   Private parking facilities including garages, carports and other
parking spaces;
      (4)   All-weather school bus shelters permitted in the front yard subject
to the provisions of §§
154.051 and
154.052 of this chapter;
      (5)   Bathhouses, tool or storage sheds and non-habitable playhouses when
located in the rear yard;
      (6)   Fences, walls and hedges, subject to the provisions of §§
154.051 and
154.052 of this chapter;
      (7)   Display signs, subject to the provisions of §§
154.120 through
154.125 of this chapter;
      (8)   Home occupations and home professional offices, subject to the
provisions of §
154.060 of this chapter;
      (9)   Gardening and private greenhouses, but not on a scale that would be
obnoxious to adjacent lots because of noise, odor or dust; and
      (10)   Parking and storage of major recreational equipment, when located
in a completely enclosed building or within a side or rear yard enclosed on all
sides with a sight obscuring fence; provided that, such equipment may be parked
anywhere on the premises for a period not to exceed 24 hours during loading and
unloading; and, further provided that, such equipment shall not be used for
dwelling purposes.
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading spaces
shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.100 through
154.105 of this chapter for permitted principal and conditional uses in a Class
“R-1” District.
   (F)   Height requirement. The maximum height of buildings and structures in
a Class “R-1” District shall be 35 feet or two and one-half stories, whichever
is lower, and an accessory building shall not exceed a height of 16 feet or one
and one-half stories, whichever is lower.
   (G)   Setback requirements. The setback requirement for buildings and
structures in a Class “R-1” District shall be as follows or a special exception
may be required:
 
                    Setback Requirements
Use                 Front Rear Side Side Street, Corner Yard Abutting Highway
                                    Lot                 or County Road
Churches, schools,
other public or     40’ 40’30’35’               50’
institutional
buildings
Dwellings and other
non-institutional   30’ 30’10’25’               50’
uses
 
   (H)   Lot size and coverage requirements. The minimum lot size and maximum
lot coverage for uses in a Class “R-1” District shall be as follows:
Use Minimum Lot** Maximum Lot Coverage
    Area Width
                                       Minimum Lot**         Maximum Lot
Use                                    Area            Width Coverage

Churches, schools, other public or institutional buildings
   Lots with community water and/or 8,400 sq. ft.   70’ 35%
sewer
   Lots with private septic systems*15,000 sq. ft.* 70’ 35%
Single-family dwellings
   Lots with community water and/or 8,400 sq. ft.   70’ 35%
sewer
   Lots with private septic systems 15,000 sq. ft.* 70’ 35%
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Shall be increased by amount as determined by County Environmental Health
Department to provide an adequate absorption field for a septic tank
installation.
**Minimum lot size for suburban residential areas now existing (farm
buildings either sold off or retained) shall be not less than 1 acre or
existing farmsteads; provided, they shall not have been abandoned for 5
years and subject to the regulations of the County Board of Health. If less
than 1 acre, a special exception must be obtained either administratively or
through the Board of Adjustment.
 
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.082 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2).
   (A)   Intent. The Class “R-2” District is intended to provide for the
development of single-family, two-family and multi-family non-farm residential
dwellings. It is also intended to provide adequate space for the installation
of private well systems and wastewater treatment facilities if access to public
or common facilities is not available.
   (B)   Principal uses. The following principal uses shall be permitted in the
Class “R-2” District:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, including summer cottages;
      (2)   Churches and other places of worship, including parish houses and
Sunday school buildings;
      (3)   Public schools and private schools having equivalent curriculum;
      (4)   Public recreational areas and facilities including parks,
playgrounds, golf courses, community centers and similar uses;
      (5)   Mobile homes converted to real estate; and
      (6)   Funeral parlors.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses shall be permitted in
a Class “R-1” District, when authorized in accordance with the requirements of
§§
154.175 through
154.176 of this chapter:
      (1)   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest, nursing and convalescent homes; homes
for orphan and aged on sites of one acre or more; off-street parking and yards
comparable for other institutional uses of this chapter to be provided;
      (2)   Railroads, transformer stations, booster stations, utility stations
and radio or television transmitter and towers, when operating requirements
necessitate locating in the district; provided, there is no yard or garage for
service or storage, or any building for general administrative or sales
offices, provided that any substation or building shall meet the front and rear
yard requirements for dwellings and shall provide side yards of not less than
25 feet, and that two parking spaces per substation or one per employee at the
site be provided; and, further provided that, the premises upon which such use
is erected shall be appropriately landscaped, screened and maintained so as to
be in harmony with the general appearance of the surrounding area, and not
objectionable as to noise, odor, vibration or other disturbances. The minimum
lot area and front yard setback may be waived by the Board only on finding that
the waiver will not create a detrimental effect on adjacent properties;
      (3)   Private non-commercial recreational areas and facilities including
parks, playgrounds, golf courses, country clubs, tennis clubs, swim clubs and
similar uses. Miniature golf courses or driving ranges operated for a profit
are excluded;
      (4)   Day care nurseries and nursery schools; provided that, for each
child there shall be a minimum of 35 square feet of usable floor space,
exclusive of wash rooms, toilets, kitchens and hallways; and, further provided
that, for each child there shall be a minimum of 100 square feet of usable
outdoor play space, which space shall be confined to the rear yard of the
property and be completely enclosed by a fence;
      (5)   Public housing developments;
      (6)   Mobile home park provided that the installation complies with Iowa
Code Chapter 435, as amended; has a water supply and sanitary sewage collection
and treatment system approved by the State Board of Health; has a minimum area
of 3,500 square feet for each mobile home space; has a maximum density of ten
units per acre; provides at least ten parking spaces, plus two parking spaces
for each mobile home site, that no mobile home shall be closer than 25 feet to
any property line of the mobile home park and that no mobile home shall be
closer than 20 feet to another mobile home. Any person, firm or corporation
constructing, expanding, remodeling or altering a mobile home park within the
county and outside the limits of any incorporated city, shall be required to
provide a concrete area of not less than 120 square feet per mobile unit for
patio. Necessary sidewalks shall be provided from patio to parking area on each
mobile home site. It shall be further required that any person, firm or
corporation constructing, expanding, remodeling or altering a mobile home park
in the county shall, when the mobile home park reaches a population of 40
mobile homes or within five years, provide adequate storm protection for
residents of said park with a minimum of five square feet per person occupying
said mobile home park; and
      (7)   Two and multiple family dwellings provided that such use shall be
in character with other dwellings in the surrounding area and that two off-
street parking spaces per unit be provided.
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following accessory uses shall be permitted in a
Class “R-2” District:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate
to one of the permitted principal or conditional uses, unless otherwise
excluded;
      (2)   Private recreational facilities including swimming pools, tennis
courts and other recreational facilities commonly accessory to a dwelling;
      (3)   Private parking facilities including garages, carports and other
parking spaces;
      (4)   All-weather school bus shelters permitted in the front yard subject
to the provisions of §§
154.051 and
154.052 of this chapter;
      (5)   Bathhouses, tool or storage sheds and non-habitable playhouses when
located in the rear yard;
      (6)   Fences, walls and hedges, subject to the provisions of §§
154.051 and
154.052 of this chapter;
      (7)   Display signs, subject to the provisions of §§
154.120 through
154.125 of this chapter;
      (8)   Home occupations and home professional offices, subject to the
provisions of §
154.060 of this chapter; and
      (9)   Gardening and private greenhouses, not operated for commercial
purposes.
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading spaces
shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.100 through
154.105 of this chapter for permitted principal and conditional uses in a Class
“R-2” District.
   (F)   Height requirement. The maximum height of buildings and structures in
a Class “R-1” District shall be 35 feet or two and one-half stories, whichever
is lower, and an accessory building shall not exceed a height of 16 feet or one
and one-half stories, whichever is lower.
   (G)   Setback requirements. The setback requirement for buildings and
structures in a Class “R-2” District shall be as follows:
 
              Setback Requirements
Use                      Side (1 Side (2 or    Side Street, Yard Abutting
              Front Rear story)  more stories) Corner Lot   Highway or
                                                            County Road
Churches,
schools,
other public  40’ 40’25’   25’         30’        50’
or
institutional
buildings
Dwellings and
other non-    30’ 30’8’    10’         25’        50’
institutional
uses
 
   (H)   Lot size and coverage requirements. The minimum lot size and maximum
lot coverage for uses in a Class “R-2” District shall be as follows or a
special exception may be required:
Use Minimum Lot** Maximum Lot Coverage
    Area Width
                                       Minimum Lot**            Maximum Lot
Use                                    Area               Width Coverage

Churches, schools, other public or institutional buildings
   Lots with community water and/or 8,400 sq. ft.      70’ 35%
sewer
   Lots with private septic systems*15,000 sq. ft.*    70’ 35%
Multi-family dwellings
                                       7,600 sq. ft. for
                                       first unit, plus
                                       1,500 sq. ft. for
   Lots with community water and/or each additional    80’
sewer                                  unit up to 12, and
                                       750 sq. ft. for
                                       each additional
                                       unit over 12
   Lots with private septic systems 15,000 sq. ft.*    70’
Single-family dwellings
   Lots with community water and/or 9,600 sq. ft.      80’ 35%
sewer
   Lots with private septic systems 15,000 sq. ft.*    70’ 35%
Two-family dwellings
   Lots with community water and sew10,000 sq. ft.     80’
   Lots with private septic systems 15,000 sq. ft.*    70’
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Shall not be less than 15,000 square feet and shall be increased by amount
as determined by the county’s Environmental Health Department to provide an
adequate absorption field for a septic tank installation.
**Minimum lot size for suburban residential areas now existing (farm
buildings either sold off or retained) shall be not less than 1 acre or
existing farmsteads; provided, they shall not have been abandoned for 5 years
and subject to the regulations of the county’s Board of Health. If less than
1 acre, a special exception must be obtained either administratively or
through the Board of Adjustment.
 
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.083 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-1).
   (A)   Intent. The Class “C-1” District is intended to provide for travel-
related businesses and services in rural areas of the county along major
highways where controlled access to the highway is afforded for the convenience
and safety of the highway user by the provisions of frontage roads,
interchanges and channelized intersections.
   (B)   Principal uses. The following principal uses shall be permitted in the
Class “C-1” District:
      (1)   Automobile and other vehicle washing establishments, including the
use of mechanical conveyors, blowers and steam cleaning, and including self-
service facilities;
      (2)   Convenience stores, including package foods and picnic supplies,
souvenirs, novelties, toiletries, and similar merchandise;
      (3)   Automotive display, sales, service and repair;
      (4)   Governmental structures and uses including fire stations,
libraries, police stations, post offices, substations and roadside rest areas;
but excluding sanitary landfills or uses similar in their scope or effects;
      (5)   Motels, hotels, tourist camps and motor hotels, but only when
serviced with public or common water and sewer facilities;
      (6)   Restaurants, cafés and drive-in eating and dining places;
      (7)   Service stations, including dispensing of diesel fuels and complete
truck service;
      (8)   Transformer stations, booster stations and utility stations;
provided, there is no yard or garage for service or storage, or any building
for general administrative or sales offices;
      (9)   Transportation passenger terminals, including bus stations,
railroad passenger stations or other passenger terminals; provided that, buses
or other transit vehicles shall not be stored on the site and no repair work or
servicing of vehicles shall be conducted on the site;
      (10)   Dry cleaners or laundry;
      (11)   Monument and marker display and sales;
      (12)   Greenhouse and plant nursery;
      (13)   Dance hall and skating rink;
      (14)   Bowling alley;
      (15)   Drive-in bank;
      (16)   Dwelling unit above a store or shop;
      (17)   Funeral parlor;
      (18)   Farm implement display, sales, service and repair;
      (19)   Railroads and public utilities, but not including storage or
maintenance yards or buildings; and
      (20)   Boats, motors, travel trailers and mobile home display, sales,
services and repair.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses shall be permitted in
a Class “C-1” District, when authorized in accordance with the requirements in
§§
154.175 through
154.185 of this chapter:
      (1)   Body and fender repair shops, including overall painting and
upholstering, but not including, motor vehicle wrecking or used parts yards or
outside storage of component parts;
      (2)   Cocktail lounges; provided, they are operated as incidental and
subordinate activities in motels and restaurants;
      (3)   Grading and excavating when development exceeds 5,000 square feet
on a site containing 14 to 30% slopes and/or when development exceeds 1,000
square feet on a site containing 30 to 50% slopes, when not associated with a
major or minor subdivision plat, subject to the provisions of §
154.066 of this chapter;
      (4)   Transmitting stations and towers; and
      (5)   Sexually-oriented businesses, subject to the terms of County Ord.
8.101.
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following accessory uses shall be permitted in a
Class “C-1” District:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate
to one of the permitted principal or conditional uses, unless otherwise
excluded;
      (2)   Display signs, outdoor advertising signs and billboards subject to
the provisions of §§
154.120 through
154.125 of this chapter;
      (3)   Private parking facilities including garages, carports and other
parking spaces;
      (4)   Storage of material or merchandise incidental to a permitted use,
but not to exceed 40% of the floor area used for such use;
      (5)   Temporary roadside stands and Christmas tree lots, when approved by
the Zoning Administrator for a specified time period, after which they all
shall be disassembled and removed at the end of the authorized period each
year; and
      (6)   Storage warehouses in conjunction with the permitted principal uses
or structures of this district.
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading spaces
shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.100 through
154.105 of this chapter for permitted principal and conditional uses in a Class
“C-1” District.
   (F)   Height requirements. The maximum height of buildings and structures in
a Class “C-1” District shall be 50 feet or four stories, whichever is lower.
   (G)   Setback requirements. The setback requirements for buildings and
structures in a Class “C-1” District shall be as follows.
      (1)   The front yard setback shall be a minimum of 15 feet.
      (2)   The side yard setback shall be a minimum of ten feet when such yard
abuts a Class “A” District or Class “R” District or platted residential
subdivision.
      (3)   The rear yard setback shall be a minimum of 20 feet when such yard
abuts a Class “A” District or Class “R” District or platted residential
subdivision.
      (4)   The minimum setback between buildings situated on the same site
shall be ten feet.
      (5)   Where apartment units are above a store or shop, a rear yard of 20
feet shall be provided.
   (H)   Lot size and coverage requirements. The minimum lot size and maximum
lot coverage for uses in a Class “C-1” District shall be as follows, except as
provided in §
154.047 of this chapter for lots not having common water and/or sewer
facilities:
 
Use               Minimum Lot Area Maximum Lot Coverage
Any permitted use 1 acre           50%
 
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.084 PLANNED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-4).
   (A)   Intent. The Class “C-4” District is intended primarily to provide for
those business and commercial establishments serving the general retail
shopping needs of those persons living in the unincorporated areas of the
county.
   (B)   Principal uses. The following principal uses shall be permitted in a
Class “C-4” District:
      (1)   Retail, office, recreational and service establishments. These uses
shall be wholly contained within a building; and
      (2)   Minimum side yard and rear yard setbacks of 50 feet shall be
required when the following permitted principal uses abut a Class “R” District
or platted residential subdivision:
         (a)   Bars, cocktail lounges, nightclubs and taverns;
         (b)   Entertainment and recreational uses, including billiard and pool
halls, bowling alleys, ballrooms and dance halls, gymnasiums and other indoor
recreational uses and buildings; and
         (c)   Restaurants, tearooms, cafeterias, cafés and soda fountains,
including outdoor cafés and drive-in eating and dining places.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses shall be permitted in
a Class “C-4” District, when authorized in accordance with the requirements of
§§
154.175 through
154.185 of this chapter:
      (1)   Auction halls, barns and yards;
      (2)   Body and fender repair shops, including overall painting and
upholstering, but not including motor vehicle wrecking or used parts yards or
outside storage of component parts;
      (3)   Drive-in theaters;
      (4)   Exterminator sales when located within a completely enclosed
building;
      (5)   Grading and excavating when development exceeds 5,000 square feet
on a site containing 14 to 30% slopes and/or when development exceeds 1,000
square feet on a site containing 30 to 50% slopes, when not associated with a
major or minor subdivision plat, subject to the provisions of §
154.066 of this chapter;
      (6)   Tire shops, including vulcanizing, retreading and recapping;
      (7)   Transmitting stations and towers;
      (8)   Outdoor entertainment and recreational uses, but only in
conjunction with a principal use of entertainment and recreation as listed
herein; and
      (9)   Sexually-oriented businesses, subject to the terms of County Ord.
8.101.
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following accessory uses shall be permitted in a
Class “C-4” District:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate
to one of the permitted principal or conditional uses, unless otherwise
excluded;
      (2)   Display signs, outdoor advertising signs and billboards subject to
the provisions of §§
154.120 through
154.125 of this chapter;
      (3)   Storage of material or merchandise incidental to a permitted use,
but not to exceed 40% of the floor area used for such use;
      (4)   Temporary roadside stands and Christmas tree lots, when approved by
the Zoning Administrator for a specified time period, after which they shall be
disassembled and removed at the end of the authorized period each year; and
      (5)   Storage warehouses in conjunction with the permitted principal uses
or structures of this district.
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading spaces
shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.100 through
154.105 of this chapter for permitted principal and conditional uses in a Class
“C-4” District.
   (F)   Height requirement. The maximum height of buildings and structures in
a Class “C-4” District shall be three stories, or a special exception may be
required.
   (G)   Setback requirements. The setback requirements for buildings and
structures in a Class “C-4” District shall be as follows or a special exception
may be required.
      (1)   The front yard setback shall be a minimum of 40 feet.
      (2)   The side yard setback shall be a minimum of 25 feet, except when
such yard abuts a Class “A” or “R” District or platted residential subdivision,
as provided herein.
      (3)   The rear yard setback shall be a minimum of 30 feet, except when
such yard abuts a Class “A” or “R” District or platted residential subdivision,
as provided herein.
      (4)   The minimum setback between buildings situated on the same site
shall be ten feet.
   (H)   Lot size and coverage requirements. The minimum lot size and maximum
lot coverage for uses in a Class “C-4” District shall be as follows, except as
provided in §
154.047 of this chapter for lots not having common water and/or sewer
facilities:
 
Use               Minimum Lot      Maximum Lot Coverage
                  Area Width Depth
Any permitted use None None  None  None
 
   (I)   Special requirements; procedures. The owner or owners of any tract of
land comprising an area of not less than five acres may submit to the Board of
Supervisors a plan for the commercial use and development of such tract for the
purpose of meeting the requirements of this section. Said plan shall be
accompanied by evidence concerning the feasibility of the project and its
effects on the surrounding property and shall include:
      (1)   A site plan defining the areas to be developed for buildings, the
areas to be developed for parking, the location of sidewalks and driveways and
the points of ingress and egress, including access streets where required, the
location and height of walls, the location and type of landscaping and the
location, size and number of signs;
      (2)   Where the tract is not served by a public or community sanitary
sewer system, provisions shall be made for the disposal of sanitary sewage in
such a manner as approved by the county’s Environmental Health Department and
by the state’s Department of Public Health; and
      (3)   Said development plan shall be referred to the Zoning Commission
for study and for report. The Commission shall review the conformity of the
proposed development with the standards of the Comprehensive Plan, and with
recognized principles of civic design, land use planning and landscape
architecture. The Commission may approve the plan as submitted or, before
approval, may require that the applicant modify, alter, adjust, or amend the
plan as the Commission deems necessary to the end that it preserves the intent
and purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, morals and
general welfare. The development plan as approved by the Commission shall then
be reported or may require such changes thereto as it deems necessary to
effectuate the intent and purpose of this chapter. Upon approval of this plan,
the Board shall then initiate a change in zoning of the subject tract of land
in accordance with the provisions of §§
154.220 through
154.229 of this chapter to the “C-4” District designation.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.085 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (M-1).
   (A)   Intent. The Class “M-1” District is intended primarily to provide for
those activities and used of a light industrial nature which are either free of
objectionable influences in their operations and appearance or which can,
through the use of appropriate abatement devices, readily prevent or control
any such objectionable be influences. Land requirements for most light
industrial uses generally dictates its application along major streets and
highways of the county which generally lie close to commercial and industrial
districts.
   (B)   Principal uses. The following principal uses shall be permitted in a
Class “M-1” District:
      (1)   Warehouse type building for commercial or industrial storage,
completely enclosed within a building, except as provided herein;
      (2)   Lumber and building supply yards;
      (3)   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning shops;
      (4)   Automobile repair shops;
      (5)   Carpenter and cabinet shops;
      (6)   Any business, professional, retail or service establishment
permitted in Districts “C-1” and “C-4”;
      (7)   Other compatible uses as determined by the Zoning Administrator or
Board of Adjustment after consultation with the Planning and Zoning Commission;
and
      (8)   Essential services.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses shall be permitted in
a Class “M-1” District, when authorized in accordance with the requirements of
§§
154.175 through
154.185 of this chapter:
      (1)   Agricultural grain and seed, stock feed and alfalfa drying,
processing and storage;
      (2)   Foundry casting of light-weight non-ferrous metals produced in an
electric foundry not causing noxious fumes or odors;
      (3)   Grading and excavating when development exceeds 5,000 square feet
on a site containing 14 to 30% slopes and/or when development exceeds 1,000
square feet on a site containing 30 to 50% slopes, when not associated with a
major or minor subdivision plat, subject to the provisions of §
154.066 of this chapter;
      (4)   Transmitting stations and towers;
      (5)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (6)   Boarding, lodging and rooming houses;
      (7)   Hotel/motel; and
      (8)   Sexually-oriented businesses, subject to the terms of County Ord.
8.101.
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following accessory uses shall be permitted in a
Class “M-1” District:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate
to one of the permitted principal or conditional uses, unless otherwise
excluded;
      (2)   Display signs, outdoor advertising signs and billboards subject to
the provisions of §§
154.120 through
154.125 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Dwelling units for watchmen or caretakers employed on the premises;
provided that, an open yard of at least 2,400 square feet is reserved and
maintained for use by the occupants.
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading spaces
shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.100 through
154.105 of this chapter for permitted principal and conditional uses in a Class
“M-1” District.
   (F)   Height requirements. The maximum height of buildings and structures in
a Class “M-1” District shall be 195 feet; provided that, no building or
structure within 200 feet of any Class “R” District or platted residential
subdivision shall exceed 45 feet in height.
   (G)   Setback requirements. The setback requirements for buildings and
structures in a Class “M-1” District shall be as follows.
      (1)   The front yard setback shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
      (2)   The side yard setback shall be a minimum of 20 feet, but shall be a
minimum of 50 feet when such yard abuts a Class “A” District and shall be a
minimum of 75 feet when such yard abuts a Class “R” District or platted
residential subdivision.
      (3)   The rear yard setback shall be a minimum of 25 feet, but shall be a
minimum of 50 feet when such yard abuts a Class “A” District and shall be a
minimum of 75 feet when such yard abuts a Class “R” District or platted
residential subdivision.
      (4)   The side street, corner lot setback shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
      (5)   The minimum setback between buildings situated on the same site
shall be ten feet.
      (6)   If the above setback requirements cannot be met, a special
exception may be required.
   (H)   Lot size and coverage requirements. The minimum lot size and maximum
lot coverage for uses in a Class “M-1” District shall be as follows, except as
provided in §
154.047 of this chapter for lots not having common water and/or sewer
facilities:
 
Use               Minimum Lot      Maximum Lot Coverage
                  Area Width Depth
Any permitted use None None  None  None
 
   (I)   Special requirements. The following requirements shall be followed by
permitted uses in the “M-1” District.
      (1)   No raw material, finished product or waste product which may cause
dust or odor which would adversely affect adjoining properties shall be stored
outside a building, nor shall any other debris or waste product be permitted to
accumulate on the site.
      (2)   All uses shall provide at least one loading space for each 10,000
square feet of floor area.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.086 INDUSTRIAL PARK OR HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (M-2).
   (A)   Intent. The Class “M-2” District is intended primarily for those
activities and uses of a heavy industrial nature. Since this is the least
restrictive of any district, many uses are permissible which involve hazardous
operations or circumstances, or create conditions of effects which, if not
properly managed, could be unhealthy, offensive or injurious to workers or the
public-at-large. For this reason and because of the performance standards set
forth in this chapter provide only limited control, it is necessary that any
application of a Class “I-2” District be examined for the appropriate spatial
relationship to adjoining districts in respect to prevailing winds, traffic
routes, railway facilities and similar considerations.
   (B)   Principal uses. The following principal uses shall be permitted in a
Class “M-2” District:
      (1)   All principal uses of the “I-1” District;
      (2)   The manufacturing, assembling, compounding, packaging, processing
or treatment of products or raw materials;
      (3)   The storage of raw materials to be used in production, goods in
process or manufactured items;
      (4)   Wholesaling and warehousing, but not including the bulk storage of
liquid fertilizer or petroleum products under pressure;
      (5)   Lumber yard and building material sale and storage;
      (6)   Truck and freight terminal;
      (7)   Grain storage bins, grain elevator and feed mill;
      (8)   Tool, die, gauge and machine shops;
      (9)   Railroads and public utilities, including storage and maintenance
yards;
      (10)   Public utility and public service installations and facilities,
including repair and storage facilities;
      (11)   Large equipment display, sales, storage, service and repair;
      (12)   All other medium and heavy industrial uses as determined by the
Commission; and
      (13)   Essential services.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses shall be permitted in
a Class “M-2” District, when authorized in accordance with the requirements of
§§
154.175 through
154.185 of this chapter:
      (1)   Concrete mixing plants, and concrete product manufacturing;
fertilizer manufacture or blending; iron and steel fabrication; provided that,
such use is located not closer than 500 feet to any existing dwelling unit or
any park, school, church or place of public assembly; that it is located so
that prevailing winds will not cause dust, smoke, odors to create a nuisance
for developed properties in the vicinity; that one parking space for each
employee and one space for each vehicle used by the industry be provided and at
least one loading space shall be provided for each 10,000 square feet of floor
area;
      (2)   Bulk storage of liquid fertilizer, petroleum products, or flammable
liquids or gases under pressure, not to exceed 50,000 gallons per storage unit,
provided that such uses shall not be located within 500 feet of any existing
dwelling, park, school or place of public assembly; and that it is located so
that prevailing winds will not cause fumes, odors, or gases to be carried
toward developed properties in the vicinity; that one parking space for each
employee and one space for each vehicle or trailer used by the industry be
provided;
      (3)   Auction halls, barns, rendering works, buying stations, livestock
truck washes, loading pens and stockyards, commercial feedlots and commercial
poultry raising; provided that, it is not closer than one-fourth mile to any
dwelling unit other than that of the owner or operator, or any park, school,
church or place of public assembly; that the provisions for drainage,
sanitation, waste disposal and fly control are approved by the local Health
Officer, that it is located so that prevailing winds will not cause dust or
odors to create a nuisance for developed properties in the vicinity; that one
parking space for each employee and one space for each vehicle used by industry
be provided;
      (4)   Sanitary landfill or waste disposal area; provided, it is not
listed for disposal of dead animals, that refuse shall be covered with dirt
daily if it contains raw garbage, that a nuisance due to smoke, odor or blowing
of trash and debris shall not be created, and that the site shall be restored
to a condition compatible with the adjacent area upon conclusion of the dump
operation. An access road having at least a graveled surface and five parking
spaces shall be provided. No landfill or wasted disposal area shall be located
closer than one-fourth mile to any dwelling, park, school or place of public
assembly;
      (5)   Auto wrecking and junkyards on sites of two acres or more provided
that the front yard be maintained as an open space free of weeds and debris;
that the site be enclosed with a six-foot high fence or a suitable landscape
planting that will screen the operation from the view of adjacent public
streets and places of public assembly, parks, recreation areas and residential
properties; and that a minimum of one parking space for each employee and one
space for each vehicle used by the facility be provided;
      (6)   Sewage lagoons;
      (7)   Junk yards and automotive wrecking yards; and
      (8)   All special uses of the I-1 District.
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following accessory uses shall be permitted in a
Class “M-2” District:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate
to one of the permitted principal or conditional uses, unless otherwise
excluded;
      (2)   Display signs, outdoor advertising signs and billboards subject to
the provisions of §§
154.120 through
154.125 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Dwelling units for watchmen or caretakers employed on the premises;
provided that, an open yard of at least 2,400 square feet is reserved and
maintained for use by the occupants.
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading spaces
shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.100 through
154.105 of this chapter for permitted principal and conditional uses in a Class
“M-2” District.
   (F)   Height requirements. The maximum height of buildings and structures in
a Class “M-1” District shall be 195 feet; provided that, no building or
structure within 200 feet of any Class “R” District or platted residential
subdivision shall exceed 45 feet in height.
   (G)   Setback requirements. The setback requirements for buildings and
structures in a Class “M-2” District shall be as follows.
      (1)   The front yard setback shall be a minimum of 40 feet.
      (2)   The side yard setback shall be a minimum of 25 feet, but shall be a
minimum of 50 feet when such yard abuts a Class “A” District and shall be a
minimum of 75 feet when such yard abuts a Class “R” District or platted
residential subdivision.
      (3)   The rear yard setback shall be a minimum of 40 feet, but shall be a
minimum of 50 feet when such yard abuts a Class “A” District and shall be a
minimum of 75 feet when such yard abuts a Class “R” District or platted
residential subdivision. No rear yard setback shall be required when the rear
yard adjoins a railroad right-of-way.
      (4)   The side street, corner lot setback shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
      (5)   The minimum setback between buildings situated on the same site
shall be ten feet.
   (H)   Lot size and coverage requirements. The minimum lot size and maximum
lot coverage for uses in a Class “M-2” District shall be as follows, except as
provided in §
154.047 of this chapter for lots not having common water and/or sewer
facilities:
 
Use               Minimum Lot      Maximum Lot Coverage
                  Area Width Depth
Any permitted use None None  None  None
 
   (I)   Special requirements. The following requirements shall be followed by
permitted uses in the M-2 District.
      (1)   Exterior storage other than the display of finished products for
retail sale shall be enclosed with a six-foot high fence or a suitable
landscape planting that will screen the stored materials from the view of
adjacent public streets, places of public assembly, parks, recreation areas and
residential properties. No raw material, finished product or waste product
which may cause dust or odor which would adversely affect adjoining properties
shall be stored outside a building nor shall any other junk, debris or waste
product be permitted to accumulate on the site.
      (2)   All required yards shall be open landscaped area and not utilized
for parking, storage or other structures other than a trade, business or
industry identification sign for the firm located on the site.
      (3)   All uses shall provide at least one loading space for each 10,000
square feet of floor area.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.087 AIRPORT HAZARD ZONE (AH).
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   The Airport Hazard Zone is established pursuant to the authority
conferred by the state in Iowa Code § 329.3. It is hereby found that an
obstruction has the potential for endangering the lives and property of users
of the Guthrie County Regional Airport and property or occupants of land in its
vicinity; that an obstruction may affect existing and future instrument
approach minimums of the airport; and that an obstruction may reduce the size
of areas available for the landing, takeoff and maneuvering of aircraft, thus
tending to destroy or impair the utility of the airport and the public
investment therein. Accordingly, it is declared:
         (a)   The creation or establishment of an obstruction has the
potential of being a public nuisance and may injure the region served by the
airports;
         (b)   It is necessary in the interest of the public health, safety and
general welfare that the creation or establishment of obstructions that are a
hazard to air navigation be prevented; and
         (c)   The prevention of incompatible land uses, and obstructions
should be accomplished, to the extent legally possible, by the exercise of the
police power without compensation.
      (2)   It is further declared that the prevention of the creation or
establishment of hazards to air navigation, the elimination, removal,
alteration or mitigation of hazards to air navigation, or marking and lighting
of obstructions are public purposes for which a political subdivision may raise
and expend public funds and acquire land or interests in land.
   (B)   Purpose. The Airport Hazard Zone is established in order to:
      (1)   Prevent the establishment of airspace obstructions in public
airport approaches and surrounding areas;
      (2)   Minimize potential dangers from, and conflicts with, the use of
aircraft at the airports; and
      (3)   Address Federal Aviation Regulation (FAR) part 77, being 14 C.F.R.
part 77, and all other applicable federal and state laws regulating hazards to
air navigation.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATIVE AGENCY. The incorporated city or unincorporated county
underlying the Airport Hazard Zones, as defined in this section.
      AIRCRAFT APPROACH CATEGORY. A grouping of aircraft based on 1.3 times
their stall speed in their landing configuration at their maximum certified
landing weight. The categories are as follows:
 
Category A Speed less than 91 knots
Category B Speed 91 knots or more, but less than 121 knots
Category C Speed 121 knots or more, but less than 141 knots
Category D Speed 141 knots or more, but less than 166 knots
Category E Speed 166 knots or more
 
      AIRPLANE DESIGN GROUP. A grouping of airplanes based on wingspan. The
groups are as follows:
 
Group I   Up to, but not including, 49 feet
Group II  49 feet, up to, but not including, 79 feet
Group III 79 feet, up to, but not including, 118 feet
Group IV  118 feet, up to, but not including, 171 feet
Group V   171 feet, up to, but not including, 214 feet
Group VI  214 feet, up to, but not including, 262 feet
 
      AIRPORT. The Guthrie County Regional Airport.
      AIRPORT ELEVATION. One thousand two hundred twenty-one feet above sea
level.
      AIRPORT OWNER. The Guthrie County Regional Airport Authority
      BUILDING RESTRICTION LINE (BRL). A line which identifies suitable
building area locations on airports. The BRL should encompass the runway
protection zones, the runway object free area, the runway visibility zones,
NAVAID critical areas required for terminal instrument procedures, and areas
addressed under Federal Aviation Regulation part 77, subpart C, being 14 C.F.R.
part 77, subpart C, (Airport Imaginary Surfaces), to a point where the surfaces
obtain a height of at least 35 feet above the primary surface.
      HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION. An object which, as a result of an aeronautical
study, the FAA determines will have a substantial adverse affect upon the safe
and efficient use of navigable airspace by aircraft, operation of air
navigation facilities or existing or potential airport capacity.
      HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this section, and shown on the Airport Hazard Zone Map, the datum
shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
      LARGE AIRPLANE. An airplane of more than 12,500 pounds maximum certified
takeoff weight.
      LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended
to be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than 12,500 pounds maximum
gross weight and jet-powered aircraft.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth,
or use of land that is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
      NON-PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure providing course guidance without vertical path guidance
utilizing VOR, NDB, LDA, GPS or other authorized RNAV system, for which a
straight-in non-precision instrument approach procedure has been approved or
planned.
      NON-PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY HAVING APPROACH PROCEDURE WITH VERTICAL
GUIDANCE. A runway having an existing instrument approach procedure providing
course and vertical path guidance that does not conform to Instrument Landing
System (ILS) or Microwave Landing System (MLS) system performance standards, or
a precision system that does not meet TERPS alignment criteria, utilizing WAAS
and authorized barometric VNAV, for which a straight-in non-precision
instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
      NOTICE TO THE FAA OF PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION. Federal Aviation Regulation
part 77, being 14 C.F.R. part 77, Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace,
requires persons proposing any construction or alteration described in Federal
Aviation Regulation § 77.13(A), being 14 C.F.R. § 77.13(A), to give 30-day
notice to the FAA of their intent. This includes any construction or alteration
of structures more than 200 feet in height above the ground level or at a
height that penetrates defined imaginary surfaces located in the vicinity of a
public use airport as well as construction or alteration of greater height than
an imaginary surface extending outward and upward at 100 to one foot for a
horizontal distance of 20,000 feet from the nearest point of the nearest
runway.
      OBSTRUCTION TO AIR NAVIGATION. An object of greater height than any of
the heights or services presented in Federal Aviation Regulation part 77,
subpart C, being 14 C.F.R. part 77, subpart C. OBSTRUCTION TO AIR NAVIGATION is
presumed to be hazards to air navigation until an FAA study has determined
otherwise.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association or government entity; includes a trustee,
a receiver, an assignee or a similar representative of any of them.
      PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure providing course and vertical path guidance conforming to
Instrument Landing System (ILS) or Microwave Landing System (MLS), precision
system performance standards, utilizing ILS, LAAS, WAAS, MLS and other
precision systems. It also means a runway for which a precision approach system
is planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout plan or any other
planning documents.
      RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
      SMALL AIRPLANE. An airplane of 12,500 pounds or less maximum certified
takeoff weight.
      STRUCTURE. An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed
by humans, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes,
smokestacks, earth formation and overhead transmission lines.
      TREE. Any object of natural growth.
      VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway without an existing or planned straight-in
instrument approach procedure.
   (D)   Airport zones. In order to carry out the provisions of this section,
there are hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the
land lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal
surfaces and conical surfaces as they apply to the Guthrie County Regional
Airport. Such zones are shown on the Airport Hazard Zone Map, and is made a
part hereof. An area located in more than one of the following zones is
considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive standard. The
various zones are hereby established and defined as follows.
      (1)   Runway Visual Approach Zone. The inner edge of this approach zone
coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 250 feet wide. The
approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,250 feet at a
horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is
the continuation of the centerline of runway.
      (2)   Runway with a Visibility Minimum of One Mile Non-Precision
Instrument Approach Zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with
the width of the primary surface and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone
expands outward uniformly to a width of 2,000 feet at a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the
centerline of the runway.
      (3)   Horizontal Zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging
arcs of 5,000 feet radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of
each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those
arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
      (4)   Conical Zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward there
from a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
   (E)   Airport zone height limitations. Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, no structure shall be erected, altered or maintained, and no tree
shall be allowed to grow in any zone created by this chapter to a height in
excess of the applicable height limit herein established for such zone. Such
applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in
question as follows:
      (1)   Runway with Visual Approach Zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each
foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the extended
runway centerline;
      (2)   Runway with a Visibility Minimum Less Than One Mile Non-Precision
Instrument Approach Zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning
at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to
a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the extended centerline;
      (3)   Transitional Zones. Slope seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation. In addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits
sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and
at the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending to where they
intersect the conical surface. Where the precision instrument runway approach
zone projects beyond the conical zone, there are established height limits
sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and
at the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending a horizontal
distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90-degree angles to the extended runway
centerline;
      (4)   Horizontal Zone. Established at 150 feet above the airport;
      (5)   Conical Zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning
at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport
elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation;
      (6)   Minimum descent altitude. No structure shall be erected in the
county that raises the published minimum descent altitude or decision height
for an instrument approach to any runway, nor shall any structure be erected
that causes the minimum obstruction clearance altitude or minimum enroute
altitude to be increased on any federal airway in the county; and
      (7)   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or
growth of any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
   (F)   Use restrictions. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
chapter, no use may be made of land or water within any zone established by
this chapter in such a manner as to create electrical interference with
navigational signals or radio communication between the airport and aircraft,
make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others,
result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in
the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike hazards or otherwise in any way
endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft
intending to use the airport.
   (G)   Non-conforming uses.
      (1)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed in this
section shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other change
or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of
the effective date of this chapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuance
of a non-conforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in
the construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction
or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of this chapter
and is diligently prosecuted.
      (2)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of
this section, the owner of any existing non-conforming structure or tree is
hereby required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon
of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Airport Manager
to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the
presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the Guthrie County
Regional Airport. Any permit granted may be conditioned to require the owner of
the structure in question to install, operate and maintain, at the owner’s
expense, such markings and lights
as may be necessary.
      (3)   Alteration or change of non-conforming use. No permit shall be
granted that would allow a non-conforming use or structure to become a greater
hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date of this chapter or
any amendments thereto or than it is when the application for a permit is made.
      (4)   Non-conforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the
administrative agency or its designee determines that a non-conforming
structure is abandoned for one year or destroyed, by any means, to the extent
of more than 60% of the replacement cost, said structure shall not be rebuilt,
restored or re-occupied for any purpose unless it shall thereafter conform to
all regulations of this chapter.
   (H)   Variances.
      (1)   (a)   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this chapter may apply to the Board of
Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. The application for a variance
shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such
variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or
enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief
granted will not be contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard
to air navigation, will do substantial justice and will be in accordance with
the spirit of this chapter. Additionally, no application for a variance to the
requirements of this chapter may be considered by the Board of Adjustment
unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the Guthrie County
Regional Airport Authority for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the
variance. If the Guthrie County Regional Airport Authority does not respond to
the application within 15 days after receipt, the Board of Adjustment may act
on its own to grant or deny said application.
         (b)   In addition, all applications for height variance within the
airport zones shall be accompanied by Federal Aviation Administration Form
7460-1, which has been completed by the applicant and processed by the FAA
regional office.
      (2)   Any permit or variance granted may, if such action is deemed
advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter and be reasonable in the
circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or
tree in question to install, operate and maintain, at the owner’s expense, such
markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed proper by the Airport Board
of Adjustment, this condition may be modified to require the owner to permit
the Guthrie County Regional Airport Authority at its own expense, to install,
operate and maintain the necessary markings and lights.
   (I)   Conflicting regulations. Where there exists a conflict between any of
the regulations or limitations prescribed in this section and any other
regulations applicable to the same area, whether the conflict be with respect
to the height of structures or trees, and the use of land, or any other matter,
the more stringent limitation or requirements shall govern and prevail.
   (J)   Permits.
      (1)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a non-conforming use,
structure or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation, than it was on
the effective date of this chapter or any amendment thereto or than it is when
the application for a permit is made.
      (2)   Future uses.
         (a)   Except as specifically provided in these divisions (J)(2)(a)1.,
(J)(2)(a)2. and (J)(2)(a)3. hereunder, no material change shall be made in the
use of land, no structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no
tree shall be planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit or variance
therefore shall have been applied for and granted. Each application for a
permit or variance shall indicate the purpose for which the permit or variance
is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit or variance to be
determined whether the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the
regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the
permit or variance shall be granted. No permit or variance for a use
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter shall be granted unless a
variance or permit has been approved in accordance with division (H) above.
            1.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when, because of terrain,
land contour or topographic features, such tree or structure would extend above
the height limits prescribed for such zones.
            2.   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at
a horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway,
no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would
extend above the height limit prescribed for such approach zones.
            3.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones
beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for
any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground,
except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or
topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for such
transition zones.
         (b)   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, or alteration
of any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this chapter, except as set forth in division (E) above.
      (3)   Non-conforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the County
Zoning Administration determines that a non-conforming tree or structure has
been abandoned or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed,
no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed
the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   (K)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the County Zoning Administrator
to administer and enforce the regulations prescribed herein. Applications for
permits and variances shall be made to the County Zoning Administrator upon a
furnished form. Applications required by this section to be submitted to the
County Zoning Administrator shall be promptly considered and granted or denied.
Application for action by the Airport Board of Adjustment shall be forthwith
transmitted by the County Zoning Administrator.
   (L)   Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   There is hereby created an Board of Adjustment to have and exercise
the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision
or determination made by the County Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of
this section;
         (b)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this
section upon which such Airport Board of Adjustment under such regulations may
be required to pass; and
         (c)   To hear and decide specific variances.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members appointed by
the County Board of Supervisors and each shall serve a term of five years until
a successor is duly appointed and qualified. Of the members first appointed,
one shall be appointed for a term of five years, one for a term of four years,
one for a term of three years, one for a term of two years and one for a period
of one year. Members shall be removable by the appointing authority for cause,
upon written charges, after a public hearing.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and in
harmony with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the Airport Board of
Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times
as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson or, in the absence of
the Chairperson, the Acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Airport Board of Adjustment shall
be public. The Airport Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question; or, if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such act, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall immediately be
filed in the office of the County Zoning Administrator and on due cause known.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of facts and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the County Zoning Administrator or decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which is required to pass under this chapter, or
to effect variation to this chapter.
   (M)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of
the County Zoning Administrator made in the administration of the chapter, may
appeal to the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as
provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing with the
administrative agency a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
County Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment
all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
      (3)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the administrative agency certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in the opinion of the
County Zoning Administrator, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, proceedings shall not be stayed, except by the order of the Board of
Adjustment on notice to the County Zoning Administrator and on due cause shown.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as may be appropriate under the
circumstances.
   (N)   Judicial review. Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by
any decision of the Board of Adjustment, may appeal to the District Court of
Iowa, as provided in Iowa Code Chapters 329 and 335.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.088 URBAN TRANSITION DISTRICT (UT).
   (A)   Intent. The UT District is intended to provide the opportunity for the
continued orderly development of compatible uses within the rural
unincorporated areas immediately outside the incorporated areas of
municipalities. More specifically, these areas include the land within one-half
mile of the corporate limits of all communities.
   (B)   Principal uses. The following principal uses shall be permitted in the
UT District:
      (1)   Agriculture (A-1); and
      (2)   Essential services.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses shall be permitted in
a Class “R-1” District, when authorized in accordance with the requirements of
§§
154.175 through
154.185 of this chapter and the adjoining municipal authority:
      (1)   Residential, if not part of an established private lake
development;
      (2)   Business, if not part of an established private lake development;
and
      (3)   Industrial districts.
   (D)   Lot sizes and setback requirements. Lot sizes and setbacks shall be
determined by the County Zoning Commission consistent with the use of the land.
When it is desirable to enhance development, sizes and setbacks may conform to
the municipality minimum standards upon consultation with the adjoining
municipality. The Commission shall make efforts to set lot sizes and set backs
to be compatible with the adjoining municipalities’ requirements for similar
uses.
   (E)   Addendum. Any district requirements or definitions differing from §§
154.081 through
154.086 of this chapter for each individual community are made a part of this
chapter as an addendum.
   (F)   Default land use. The default land use designation in the Urban
Transition District is agricultural. The Zoning District designation as Urban
Transition (UT) does not change when a request to change land use to
residential, commercial or industrial is approved by the Board of Supervisors.
The Board may approve the change in land use after consultation with the
adjoining city government, and notification of adjacent property owners. Only
the allowed use for the property under consideration will change.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 154.100 GENERALLY.
   The following general provisions shall apply to off-street parking and
loading facilities.
   (A)   At the time of construction of a structure, or at the time of
enlargement or change in use of a structure, off-street parking facilities
shall be provided for use in the storage of passenger automobiles and
commercial vehicles under one and one-half tons’ capacity, whether for
compensation, for fee, or as an accommodation to clients or customers. Also,
structures to be constructed or substantially altered and which will receive
and distribute materials and merchandise by trucks, shall provide off-street
loading facilities of sufficient number and size to adequately handle the needs
of the particular use. The provision and maintenance of such off-street parking
and loading facilities shall be the continuing obligation of the owner and
tenant of the premises.
   (B)   The requirements for off-street parking and loading for types of
structures and uses not specifically described in this chapter shall be
determined by the Zoning Administrator, based upon the requirements of
comparable uses listed.
   (C)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following units of measurement
shall apply.
      (1)   In the cases of offices, merchandising or service type of uses,
FLOOR AREA shall mean the gross floor area used or intended to be used by
tenants, or for service to the public as customers, patrons, clients or
patients, including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display
or sale of merchandise. It shall not include areas used principally for non-
public purposes, such as storage, incidental repairs, processing or packaging
of merchandise, for show windows, for offices incidental to the management or
maintenance of stores or buildings, for toilets or restrooms, fitting or
alteration rooms.
      (2)   In places of public assembly in which patrons or spectators occupy
benches, pews or other seating facilities, each 20 inches of such seating
facilities shall be counted as one seat for the purpose of determining
requirements for off-street parking facilities under this chapter.
      (3)   When the total parking spaces requirement includes a fractional
space, any fraction up to and including one-half space shall be disregarded,
and fractions over one-half shall require one parking space.
      (4)   In the event several uses occupy a single structure or parcel of
land, the total requirement for off-street parking shall be the sum of the
requirements of the several uses computed separately.
      (5)   Owners of two or more uses, structures, or parcels of land may
agree to utilize jointly the same parking and loading facilities when the hours
of operation do not overlap; provided that, satisfactory legal evidence is
presented to the Zoning Administrator in the form of deeds, leases or contracts
to establish the joint use.
      (6)   Required parking spaces shall be available for parking of operable
passenger automobiles of residents, customers, patrons and employees only, and
shall not be used for storage of vehicles or materials or for the parking of
trucks used in conducting the business or use.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.101 DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF PARKING AREAS.
   Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private parking area,
including a commercial parking lot and also an automobile or trailer sales lot,
shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the following
requirements.
   (A)   The minimum number of required off-street parking spaces for all
districts shall be as provided in §
154.102 of this chapter.
   (B)   Each required parking stall shall be not less than ten feet in width
and not less than 19 feet in length.
   (C)   All off-street parking spaces in a Class “A” or “R” District or
platted residential subdivision shall be located on the same lot with the
principal use. All other required off-street parking spaces shall not be
located farther than 500 feet from the building or use they are intended to
serve. The distance shall be measured in a straight line from the building or
use to the farthest parking space.
   (D)   All groups of more than two parking spaces shall be located and served
by an access drive that their use will not require backing or other maneuvering
within a street right-of-way other than an alley.
   (E)   No part of any off-street parking space shall be located within the
required front yard setback of any zoning district.
   (F)   All off-street parking areas and access drives shall be surfaced with
gravel or such other surfacing material so as to provide a durable all-weather
surface; shall be so graded and drained as to dispose of all surface water
accumulation within the area; and shall be so arranged as to provide for
orderly and safe loading or unloading and parking and storage of self-propelled
vehicles.
   (G)   Adequate lighting shall be provided if the parking facilities are used
at night, and shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from the
adjoining premises in any Class “A” or “R” District or platted residential
subdivision.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.102 PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   The number of off-street parking spaces required shall not be less than as
set forth in the following schedule:
Off-Street Parking Schedule
Structure and Uses Minimum Off-street Parking Requirements
Off-Street Parking Schedule
Structure and Uses                                                          Minimum Off-street Parking Requirements
Banks, business and professional offices                                    1 space per every 300 square feet of gross floor area, but in no case less than
                                                                            5 spaces
Barber shops and beauty parlors                                             1 space per every 75 square feet of gross floor area
Billiard parlors, gamerooms and pool halls                                  1-1/2 spaces per each 100 square feet of gross floor area for any establishment
                                                                            other than one with liquor license or beer permit
Boarding, lodging or rooming houses                                         1 space per every 5 guest rooms
Bowling alleys                                                              5 spaces per lane or alley
Bus terminal                                                                6 spaces, plus 1 off-street loading space for each bus serving the terminal
Churches, synagogues and temples                                            1 space per 4 seats in the main unit of worship
Convalescent hospitals, sanitariums, homes for the aged                     1 space per every 3 beds
Dance hall and skating rinks                                                1 space per every 100 square feet of gross floor area
Drive-in bank                                                               4 spaces per every teller window
Dwelling, multiple                                                          2 spaces per each dwelling unit
Dwelling, public housing for elderly                                        1 space per every 4 units
Dwelling, single-family; dwelling, duplex; and mobile homes                 2 spaces per each dwelling unit
Eating and/or drinking establishments                                       1 space per every 100 square feet of gross floor area
Educational uses
   Nursery schools                                                       1 space per every 2 classrooms
   Elementary, junior high or senior high schools                        1 space per every classroom and office, plus 1 space per every 6 seats in
                                                                            auditorium or assembly hall
   Colleges                                                              1 space per every 3 full-time equivalent students
Fraternities, sororities and dormitories                                    1 space per every 2 residents
Funeral homes, mortuaries                                                   1 space per every 4 seats in the principal auditorium
Golf courses and country clubs, except miniature courses or driving ranges  3 spaces per green or 1 space for every 100 square feet of clubhouse floor area,
operated for a profit                                                       whichever is greater
Hospitals                                                                   1-1/2 spaces per each bed
Hotels, motels, motor hotels                                                1 space per every guest room
Industrial uses
   Industrial usage in the M-1 and M-2 Districts, except as specifically 1 space for every employee, plus 1 space for each vehicle used by the industry
mentioned herein
   Wholesale and storage operations                                      1 space per every 700 square feet of gross floor area
   Laboratories and research facilities                                  1 space per every 300 square feet of gross floor area
   Machinery or equipment                                                1 space per every 500 square feet of gross floor area
Lakes, ponds and outdoor recreation facilities                              5 spaces for each acre developed for active usage
Medical and dental offices                                                  1 space per every 200 square feet of gross floor area
Mines, quarries, sand and gravel pits, sawmills and related facilities
required for obtaining, processing, storing and transporting minerals, raw  1 space per each employee, plus 1 space for each vehicle used by the industry
materials and timber at their point of origin
                                                                            1 space per each 10 storage spaces, stalls or lockers equally distributed
Mini-warehouse                                                              throughout the storage area; plus 1 space for any caretaker’s quarters; plus 5
                                                                            spaces located at or near the project office for the use of prospective
                                                                            customers
Parks, playgrounds, campgrounds, wildlife preserves, recreation areas and   5 spaces for each acre developed for active usage
conservation areas
Private clubs and lodges                                                    1 space per every 500 square feet of floor area
Retail sales establishments
   General                                                               1 space per every 300 square feet of gross floor area
   Furniture and appliance stores; boat, auto and implement dealers      1 space per every 300 square feet of gross floor area
Roadside stands                                                             4 spaces per establishment
Stables and kennels                                                         1 space per every 200 square feet of sales, service or office floor area
Theaters, auditoriums and places of assembly                                1 space per every 50 square feet of floor area
Veterinary establishment                                                    3 spaces per staff doctors
Welfare or correctional institutions                                        1 space per every 4 beds
 
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.103 DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF LOADING SPACES.
   Every building or part thereof hereafter erected, having a gross floor area
of 10,000 square feet or more, which is to be occupied by manufacturing,
storage, warehouse, goods display, retail store, wholesale store, market,
hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or other uses similarly
requiring the receipt of distribution by vehicles of material of merchandise,
shall develop and maintain on the same lot with such building an off-street
loading area in accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   The minimum number of required off-street loading spaces for all
districts shall be at least one loading space, plus one additional loading
space for each 20,000 square feet or major fraction thereof of gross floor area
so used in excess of 10,000 square feet. For buildings having less than 10,000
square feet of gross floor area, the regular off-street parking areas may be
used to meet the off-street loading requirements herein set forth.
   (B)   Off-street loading space shall each contain at least 350 square feet
measuring ten feet in width and 35 feet in length, and shall have a clearance
of at least 14 feet. When the vehicle generally used for loading and unloading
purposes exceed these dimensions, the required length of such spaces shall be
correspondingly increased.
   (C)   All off-street loading spaces shall be so located and served by an
access drive that their use will not require any backing or other maneuvering
within a street right-of-way other than an alley.
   (D)   All off-street loading spaces shall be developed in accordance with
the provisions of §
154.101 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.104 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   (A)   A plan, drawn to scale, indicating how the off-street parking and
loading requirements are to be fulfilled, shall accompany an application for a
zoning permit.
   (B)   The plan shall show all elements necessary to indicate that the
requirement is being fulfilled, including the following:
      (1)   Delineation of individual parking and loading spaces;
      (2)   Circulation area necessary to serve spaces;
      (3)   Access to streets and property to be served;
      (4)   Curb cuts; and
      (5)   All other pertinent details, including dimension of ingress, egress
and driveway areas.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.105 COMPLETION TIME FOR PARKING LOTS.
   Required parking spaces shall be improved as required and made available for
use before the final inspection is completed by the Zoning Administrator. An
extension of time may be granted by the Zoning Administrator provided a
performance bond or its equivalent is posted, equaling the cost of completing
the improvement as estimated by the County Engineer, and provided the parking
space is not required for immediate use. In the event the improvement is not
completed within two years from the date of commencement, the bond or its
equivalent shall be forfeited and the improvements thereafter constructed or
completed under the direction of the County Engineer.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
DISPLAY AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS
§ 154.120 GENERALLY.
   The following general provisions shall apply to display and outdoor
advertising signs.
   (A)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall require the removal or
discontinuance of a legally existing sign that is not altered, rebuilt,
enlarged, extended or relocated and the same shall be deemed a non-conforming
use under the terms of this chapter; provided, however, the following signs
shall be made to conform with the provisions of this chapter or shall be
removed by the owner upon written notice of the Zoning Administrator, forthwith
in the case of the immediate danger and in any case within not more than 30
days following said notice:
         (a)   Any sign which is in a state of serious disrepair or is no
longer functional;
         (b)   An obsolete sign that advertises an activity, business, product
or service which is no longer conducted on the premises on which the sign is
located, or any other sign which has been abandoned;
         (c)   Any sign which is in violation of the provisions of divisions
(B) and (C) below;
         (d)   Any sign which swings or otherwise noticeably moves as a result
of wind pressure because of the manner of their suspension or attachment;
         (e)   Any portable sign that is not permanently anchored or secured to
either a building or the ground; and
         (f)   Any sign that becomes insecure, in danger of falling or
otherwise unsafe; or any sign unlawfully installed, erected or maintained.
      (2)   If, within 30 days, said order is not complied with, the Zoning
Administrator may cause such sign to be removed at the expense of the owner.
   (B)   No sign shall closely resemble or approximate the shape, form and
color of any official traffic sign, signal or device. No sign shall be erected
at any location where it may, by reason of its size, location, content,
coloring or manner of illumination, constitute a traffic hazard or a detriment
to traffic safety by obstructing the vision of motorists, by detracting from
the visibility of any traffic control device. No rotating beacon, beam or
flashing illumination resembling an emergency light shall be used in connection
with any sign or be visible for any adjacent street. Lights resembling an
emergency light or such words as “Stop”, “Look”, “Danger” or any other words,
phrases, symbols or characters, which in any manner interfere with, mislead or
confuse traffic shall not be used in connection with any sign.
   (C)   No sign other than an official traffic, street or related sign
approved for placement by the County Engineer or other public officer in the
performance of his or her public duty, shall be placed on or over any street or
public property.
   (D)   Off-site signs are prohibited in all districts except as specifically
permitted in this chapter; provided, however, such signs may be permitted by
the Board when unusual or compelling circumstances may require.
   (E)   Two or more signs may be mounted on the same sign standard or
structure; provided that, the combined surface areas of such signs shall not
exceed the maximum area permitted for a single sign, except as specifically
permitted in this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   Illuminated signs shall not be of an intermittent flashing type
and shall not display any direct or focused illumination such as photo flood
lamps, reflector lamps or lamps with an optical reflector located in the rear
of same.
      (2)   All illumination from any lamp or over 25 watts rating shall be
through a diffusing lens or frosted envelope, excepting indirect illumination.
      (3)   In case of indirect illumination, all reflected or directed
illumination must be focused on said sign so that same cannot be seen from any
direction in adjacent areas.
   (G)   Signs which are displayed inside or upon a window facing the outside
and which are intended to be seen from the exterior shall be permitted subject
to the same conditions and restrictions as wall signs.
   (H)   These regulations shall not apply to any sign that is visible only
from the premises upon which it is erected, such as on walls of courts or malls
in shopping centers.
   (I)   These regulations shall not apply to signs which are accessory to the
use of any kind of operable vehicle; provided, the sign is painted or attached
directly to the body of the vehicle.
   (J)   Outdoor advertising signs and billboards shall comply with all state
and federal regulations
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.121 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   Signs hereinafter designated shall be permitted in all zoning districts.
   (A)   The following temporary signs shall be permitted.
      (1)   One non-illuminated sign not to exceed six square feet square feet
in area shall be permitted per lot frontage to advertise the sale, rental or
lease of the premises or part of the premises on which the sign is displayed.
      (2)   One non-illuminated sign not to exceed 50 square feet in area shall
be permitted per lot frontage to identify the architects, engineers,
contractors or other individuals involved in construction of the building on
the premises on which the sign is displayed. Such sign may also announce the
character of the building enterprise or the purpose for which the building is
intended, but shall not include product advertising. Such sign shall not extend
higher than eight feet above grade level, nor closer than 15 feet to any
property line unless mounted flat against the wall of the building or on a
protective barricade surrounding the construction. Such sign shall be removed
within seven days following completion of construction.
      (3)   One non-illuminated sign not to exceed 50 square feet in area shall
be permitted at the entrance to a recorded subdivision to identify and/or
provide information regarding such subdivision. One additional such sign shall
be permitted at an auxiliary entrance provided such auxiliary entrance fronts
on a separate street from the main entrance. Such sign shall not extend higher
than eight feet above grade level, nor closer than 15 feet to any property
line. Such sign shall be removed upon completion of the sale of 90% of the lots
located within the subdivision.
      (4)   One non-illuminated sign not to exceed nine square feet in area
shall be permitted for each dwelling which is used for display or as a model
home. Such sign shall not extend higher than four feet above grade level and
shall only be located within the front yard of the lot containing such
dwelling. Such sign shall be removed when a display or model home is no longer
so used.
      (5)   Political campaign signs shall be permitted to announce candidates
seeking public political office or pertinent political issues. Such signs shall
not be erected earlier than 45 days prior to the date balloting takes place for
the candidates or issues indicated on the sign, and shall be removed no later
than seven days after said balloting date.
   (B)   One non-illuminated sign not to exceed 50 square feet in area shall be
permitted at the entrance to a recorded subdivision. Such sign shall be of
ornamental metal, stone, masonry, wood or other permanent material and shall
indicate only the name of such subdivision. Such sign shall not extend higher
than eight feet above grade level, nor closer than 15 feet to any property
line.
   (C)   One sign or nameplate not to exceed two square feet in area shall be
permitted to identify the occupant of the premises or a permitted use. Such
sign shall not extend higher than six feet above the grade level, nor closer
than 15 feet to any property line unless mounted flat against the wall of the
building or on a free-standing mail box.
   (D)   Non-illuminated community direction signs shall be permitted at a
county road intersection when such signs are placed, controlled and maintained
by a cooperative neighbor or organization and approved by the County Engineer.
   (E)   Community service information signs, public utility information signs,
safety signs, danger signs, trespassing signs, memorial or commemorative
plaques, signs indicating scenic or historical points of interest and all other
similar signs, including all signs erected by or upon the order of a public
officer in the performance of his or her public duty, shall be permitted when
such signs are of a non-commercial nature and in the public interest.
   (F)   Off-site signs not to exceed three square feet in area shall be
permitted to display the emblem of a service club or of a church, and
information on the time and location of meetings or services. More than one
such sign may be mounted on a common sign standard or structure; provided such,
standard or structure shall not extend higher than eight feet above grade
level, nor closer than 15 feet to any property line.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.122 SIGNS IN THE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   The following signs shall be permitted in the Class “A” District:
   (A)   On-site and off-site signs not to exceed 32 square feet in area shall
be permitted to identify a farm premises or to indicate the product grown or
material and equipment used on the farm premises;
   (B)   One non-illuminated sign not to exceed three square feet in area shall
be permitted to identify a home occupation, home professional office or rural
enterprise business;
   (C)   One sign not to exceed 20 square feet in area shall be permitted per
lot frontage to identify a church, school, institution or public building or
use. Such signs shall not extend higher than eight feet above grade level and
shall be mounted flat against the wall of the building. In addition, one
bulletin board not to exceed 50 square feet in area shall be permitted for each
premises. Such bulletin board shall not extend higher than eight feet above
grade level, nor closer than 15 feet to any property line unless mounted flat
against the wall of the building; and
   (D)   Billboards or advertising signs in the district:
      (1)   Shall not be located within 300 feet of any intersection, highway
structure, residence or other billboard;
      (2)   Shall not be located within 100 feet of any park, school, cemetery
or public or semi-public building; and
      (3)   Shall not be located within 75 feet of centerline of any city or
county road or within 100 feet of any state or federal highway.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.123 SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following signs shall be permitted in Class “R” Districts or platted
residential subdivisions:
   (A)   Illuminated signs, bulletin boards and name plates shall not exceed 60
watts and shall be lighted only with indirect, non-intermittent lighting; and
   (B)   Signs and bulletin boards shall be at least 20 feet from the front lot
line or not more than five feet in front of main building.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.124 SIGNS IN COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following signs shall be permitted in the Class “C” Districts:
   (A)   Trade, business or industry identification signs; provided they:
      (1)   Do not exceed 25 feet in height;
      (2)   Are not within 25 feet of an agricultural or residential district;
      (3)   Do not overhang in public right-of-way, except those signs which
project not more than one foot beyond the front face or integral part of the
building other than identification signs of less than two square feet in area;
and
      (4)   Are not within 25 feet of a highway intersection or highway
structure.
   (B)   Advertising signs and billboards; provided they:
      (1)   Do not exceed 25 feet in height;
      (2)   Are not within 25 feet of an “A” or “R” District;
      (3)   Are not within 75 feet of another billboard; and
      (4)   Do not exceed 100 square feet in area.
   (C)   No sign or billboard shall be located in, overhang or project into a
required yard.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.125 SIGNS IN INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following signs shall be permitted in the class “I” Districts:
   (A)   Billboards or advertising signs; provided:
      (1)   They are not within 150 feet of a highway intersection, highway
structure, residence, park, school, cemetery, public or semi-public building;
and
      (2)   They are not within 150 feet of another billboard or advertising
sign.
   (B)   Trade, business or industry identification signs for the firm located
on the site; provided that:
      (1)   Free standing signs shall not exceed 150 square feet in area or 25
feet in height;
      (2)   Signs mounted flush on the wall of a building shall not exceed 10%
of the area of the wall of the building on which they are located or 200 square
feet, whichever is smaller;
      (3)   Overhanging signs, attached to a building shall not project above
the height of the building, or more than four feet from the wall of the
building and shall not have more than 100 square feet of area; and
      (4)   Not more than one sign of each category above may be provided for
any single use, although each sign may be a double faced or back to back sign.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
§ 154.140 PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Allowable special exception uses may be permitted, enlarged or altered upon
application for a special exception use permit in accordance with the rules and
procedures of the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment will grant or
deny a special exception use permit in accordance with the standards set forth
herein and with the intent and purpose of this chapter. In granting a special
exception use permit, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe and impose
appropriate conditions, safeguards and a specified time limit for the
performance of the special exception use permit.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.141 APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE PERMIT.
   A property owner or his or her authorized agent may initiate an application
for a special exception use permit by filing an application with the Zoning
Administrator upon forms prescribed for the purposes. A site plan and other
such plans shall accompany the application and data showing the dimensions,
arrangements, descriptive data and other materials constituting a record
essential to an understanding of the proposed use and proposed modification in
relation to the standards set forth herein. The application shall also be
accompanied by a fee as determined by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.142 PROCEDURES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall not grant a special exception permit unless
and until the following procedures have been fulfilled.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall schedule a public hearing in relation to
the special exception request. Notice shall be given to the public hearing as
required by state statute by publication in a newspaper of general circulation
in the county. If feasible, notice of the public hearing will be mailed to
property owners within 200 feet of the exception request.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall determine that it is empowered under
this chapter to grant the special exception as described in the application,
and that granting of the special exception will not adversely affect the public
interest.
   (C)   In granting any special exception, the Board of Adjustment may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
chapter. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the special exception is granted, shall be deemed a violation
of this chapter and punishable under §
154.999 of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   The concurring vote of three members of the Board of Adjustment
grants a special exception use permit.
      (2)   No order of the Board of Adjustment granting a special exception
use permit shall be valid for a period longer than two years from the date of
such order, unless the Board of Adjustment specifically grants a longer period
of time or a commenced.
   (E)   The Board of Supervisors may, after a decision of the Board of
Adjustment is made, vote to delay the implementation of such decision for a
period of 30 days. The Board of Supervisors may not overturn a decision of the
Board of Adjustment. During the 30-day period, the Board of Adjustment may or
may not reconsider its decision.
   (F)   The County Board of Supervisors may impose conditions on a property
owner which are in addition to existing regulations if the additional
conditions have been agreed to in writing by the property owner before the
public hearing required herein. The conditions must be reasonable and imposed
to satisfy public needs which are directly caused by the requested change.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.143 STANDARDS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall grant no special exception use permit unless
such Board shall find:
   (A)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or
general welfare of the community;
   (B)   The special exception use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose already
permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the
neighborhood;
   (C)   The establishment of the special exception use will not impede the
normal and orderly development in improvement of the surrounding property for
uses permitted in the district;
   (D)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or necessary facilities
have been or are being provided;
   (E)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets;
   (F)   The use shall not include any activity involving the use or storage of
flammable, or explosive material unless protected by adequate fire fighting and
fire suppression equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in
handling of any such material;
   (G)   The use shall not include noise which is objectionable due to volume,
frequency or beat unless muffled or otherwise controlled;
   (H)   The use shall not include vibration which is discernible without
instruments on any adjoining lot or property;
   (I)   The use shall not involve any malodorous gas or matter which is
discernible on any adjoining property;
   (J)   The use shall not involve any pollution of the air by fly-ash, dust,
vapors or other substance which is harmful to health, animals, vegetation or
other property or which can cause soiling, discomfort, irritation or excessive
pollution;
   (K)   The use shall not involve any direct or reflected glare which is
visible form any adjoining property or from any public street, road or highway;
   (L)   The use shall not involve any activity substantially increasing the
movement of traffic on public streets unless procedures are initiated to limit
traffic hazards and congestion;
   (M)   The use shall not involve any activity substantially increasing the
burden on any public utilities or facilities unless provisions are made for any
necessary adjustments; and
   (N)   The use will not be in major conflict with the Comprehensive Land Use
Plan.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
§ 154.155 INTENT.
   (A)   Within the zoning districts established by this chapter or amendments
that may be adopted later, there exists lots, structures and uses of land and
structures which were lawful before this chapter was passed or amended, but
which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this
chapter or future amendments.
   (B)   (1)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit these non-
conformities to continue until they are removed, but not encourage their
survival.
      (2)   It is the intent of this chapter that such non-conformities shall
not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor used as grounds for adding
other structures or uses prohibited in the same district.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.156 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any zoning district in which single-family structures are
permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory building may be
erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other
provisions of this chapter. This provision shall apply even though such lot
fails to meet the requirements for lot size or lot coverage, that area
generally applicable to the district.
   (B)   Furthermore, the following yard requirements shall prevail for such
lots which do not meet the minimum width and/or depth requirements of the
district may be reduced as follows.
      (1)   The depth of the front yard of such a lot may be reduced only as
specified in §
154.050 of this chapter.
      (2)   The width of the street side yard may be reduced to 30% of the
width of such corner lot; provided, however, that, no such yard shall be less
than 15 feet.
      (3)   The width of an interior side yard may be reduced to 15% of the
width of such a lot; provided, however, that, no such yard shall be less than
ten feet.
      (4)   The depth of the rear yard may be reduced to 20% of the depth of
such a lot; provided, however, that, no such yard shall be less than 20 feet.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.157 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND WITH MINOR STRUCTURES ONLY.
   Where a lawful use of land involving only minor structures, having
individual replacement of less than $1,000, exists at the effective date of
adoption of this chapter that would not be allowed in the zoning district under
the terms of this chapter, the use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter shall be erected with such non-conforming use of land.
   (B)   No such non-conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment to this chapter.
   (C)   No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (D)   If any such non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than 12 months, any subsequent use of this land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the zoning district in which such
land is located.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.158 NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMMON.
   Where a lawful use of land involving individual structures with a
replacement cost of $1,000, or more, or of structure and land in combination,
exists at the effective date of adoption of this chapter, that would not be
allowed in the zoning district under the terms of this chapter, the use may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any part of a
building or area which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the
time of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be
extended to occupy any land outside such building or area.
   (B)   (1)   Any structure in any zoning district devoted to a use made non-
conforming by this chapter may be structurally altered or enlarged in
conformity with the lot area, lot coverage, frontage, yard, height and parking
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located; provided, such
construction shall be first approved by the Board and shall be limited to
buildings on land owned on record by the owner of the land devoted to the non-
conforming use prior to the effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   Such structural alteration or enlargement shall not authorize the
substitution of a non- conforming use that is less restrictive than the one to
which the structure was devoted at the time of passage of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   A non-conforming use of a structure may be changed to another
non-conforming use of a similar nature within the same or a more restrictive
classification with approval of the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a more restricted
use or to a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less
restrictive use.
   (D)   In the event that a non-conforming use of a structure, or structure
and land in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for a period of one year,
the use of the same shall thereafter conform to the uses permitted in the
zoning district in which it is located. Where non-conforming uses status
applies to a structure and land in combination, removal or destruction of the
structure shall eliminate the non- conforming status of the land.
   (E)   Any structure devoted to a use made non-conforming by this chapter
that is destroyed by any means to an extent of 60% or more of its replacement
cost at the time of destruction, exclusive of the foundations, shall not be
reconstructed or used as before such happening. If the structure is less than
60% destroyed above the foundation, it may be reconstructed and used as before
provided construction is begun within six months of such happening, and
provided it is built of like or similar material.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.159 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the terms of this
chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yard, its
location on the lot or other requirements concerning the structure, such
structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions.
   (A)   No such non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its non- conformity, but any structure or portion thereof may
be altered to decrease its non-conformity.
   (B)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the zoning
district in which it is located after it is moved.
   (C)   Should such non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of a
structure be destroyed by an means to an extent of 60% or more of its
replacement cost at the time of destruction, exclusive of the foundation, it
shall not be reconstructed, except in conformity with provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.160 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   On any non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a non-
conforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on
ordinary repairs, or on repairs or replacement on non-bearing walls, fixtures,
wiring or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding 25% of the current replacement
cost of the non-conforming portion of the structure as the case may be;
provided that, the cubic content existing when it became non-conforming shall
not be increased.
   (A)   If a non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
non-conforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs
and maintenance, and is declared by any duly authorized official to be unsafe
or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be
restored, repaired or rebuilt, except in conformity with the regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety upon order of
such official.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.161 CONDITIONAL USE.
   Any use at the date of adoption or amendment of this chapter which is
permitted as a conditional use in a zoning district under the terms of this
chapter shall not be deemed as a non-conforming use in such zoning district,
but shall, without further action, be considered a conforming use.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.162 UNAUTHORIZED NON-CONFORMITIES.
   Any use of land, use of structure or structure, in existence at the time of
adoption of this chapter which was not an authorized non-conformity under
previous zoning ordinances shall not be authorized to continue its non-
conforming status pursuant to this chapter or amendments thereto.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.163 COMPLETION OF PENDING CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be interpreted as requiring any
change in the plans, construction, alteration or designated use of a structure
for which a zoning permit has been issued, and the actual construction begun
prior to the adoption of this chapter, and completion thereof carried on in a
normal manner and not discontinued for reasons other than those beyond the
builder’s control. ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include the placing
of construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner. Where excavation or demolition or removal of an existing building has
been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such excavation or
demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction; provided that,
work shall be carried on diligently. However, if the designated use will be
non-conforming, it shall be considered a discontinued use if not in operation
within one year of the effective date of this chapter, unless an extension is
authorized by the Board.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.164 REGISTRATION OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   A certificate of zoning compliance shall be required for all lawful non-
conforming uses of land or buildings. A written request for such certificate of
non-conforming uses shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator by the owner
or tenant of the building or land occupied by such non-conforming use,
accompanied by affidavits of proof that such non-conforming use was legally
established prior to the effective date of this chapter or was in existence
prior to 4-13-1972.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 154.175 CREATION.
   The Board of Adjustment, as presently constituted, shall continue in office
in accordance with the requirements set forth in Iowa Code Chapter 335, as
amended. The Board shall consist of five members, a majority of whom shall
reside within the county, but outside the corporate limits of any municipality.
Each member of the Board shall be appointed by the County Board for a term of
five years. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member
whose term becomes vacant. The County Board shall have the power to remove any
member of the Board from office, for cause, upon written charges and after
public hearing. Members of the Board may receive compensation, as determined by
the County Board, for their services.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.176 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board shall adopt rules of procedure in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The Board shall elect its own Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson, who shall serve a one-year term. Meetings of the Board shall be
held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may
determine. Such Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the Vice-Chairperson,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   (B)   (1)   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and the
presence of three members shall be necessary to constitute a quorum.
      (2)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing evidence
presented, findings of fact by the Board, decisions of the Board and the vote
of each member upon each question or if absent or failing to vote indicating
such fact.
   (C)   The Board shall maintain a current, permanent record of its meetings
and all official actions on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator and
in a form convenient for public inspection.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.177 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the following powers and duties.
   (A)   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination
made by the Zoning Administrator based on or made in the enforcement of any
provision of this chapter or in the interpretation of district boundaries as
shown on the Official Zoning Map.
   (B)   (1)   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide appeals for
variances from the specific terms of this chapter which will not be contrary to
the public interest and where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will, in an individual case,
result in unnecessary hardship; and, provided that, the spirit of the chapter
shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice
done.
      (2)   No variance from the terms of this chapter shall be granted unless
the Board is satisfied that granting the variance:
         (a)   Is necessary to alleviate a demonstrable hardship or difficulty
so great as to warrant the variance;
         (b)   Will not merely serve as a convenience to the applicant;
         (c)   Will not impair the general purpose and intent of the
regulations and provisions contained in this chapter;
         (d)   Will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent
properties;
         (e)   Will not increase the hazard from fire and other damages to said
property;
         (f)   Will not diminish the value of land and buildings in the county;
         (g)   Will not increase the congestion and traffic hazards on public
roads;
         (h)   Will not otherwise impair the public health, safety and general
welfare of the inhabitants of the county;
         (i)   Is not based on the non-conforming use of neighboring lands,
structures or buildings in the same district, and the permitted or non-
conforming use of lands, structures or buildings in other districts is not
grounds for the issuance of the variance; and
         (j)   Will not, under any circumstances, allow a use not permissible
under the terms of this chapter in the district involved, or any use expressly
or by implication prohibited by the terms of this chapter in said district.
   (C)   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide only such appeals
for conditional uses as the Board is specifically authorized to pass on by the
term of this chapter; to decide such questions as are involved in determining
whether conditional uses should be granted; and to grant conditional uses with
such conditions and safeguards as are appropriate under this chapter; or to
deny conditional uses when not in harmony with the purpose and intent of this
chapter. In reviewing an application for a conditional use permit, findings
based on the following criteria shall be made and serve as the basis for
approval or denial of the request:
      (1)   Does the proposed use conform to the Land Use Policy Plan?
      (2)   Is the site suitable for the proposed use? Such factors as size and
shape of the property, topographic conditions, soil conditions to support water
and septic systems, accessibility to transportation facilities and soil erosion
problems shall be considered.
      (3)   Is the proposed use compatible with surrounding property use? Such
factors as the activities and function of the proposed use should be considered
to determine if the proposed use conflicts with or reduces the usefulness or
value or creates other negative impacts on adjoining property or properties in
the general area, including public health, safety and welfare.
      (4)   Is the adjoining road system adequate to accommodate the proposed
use in terms of the present traffic volume versus road capacity and the general
condition of the road system?
      (5)   Can adequate measures be taken to minimize any potential adverse
impacts on adjoining property? If so, stipulate such measures as required by
the ordinance or special conditions that would be required.
      (6)   Does the conditional use comply with all conditions imposed on it
by the provisions of the district in which such conditional use may be
authorized?
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.178 ASSISTANCE FROM OTHER DEPARTMENTS.
   The Board may call upon the several county departments for assistance in the
performance of its duties, and it shall be the duty of such department to
render such assistance to the Board as may be reasonably required.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.179 APPEALS TO BOARD.
   (A)   Appeal to the Board may be taken by any person or organization
aggrieved; or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the county or any
other governmental agency or body effected by any decision of the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   Such appeal shall be taken within 30 days after said decision
and shall be taken by the filing of a written application, upon the form
provided, with the Zoning Administrator for submission to the Board. The
application shall be accompanied by a fee as specified in §
154.009 of this chapter and by such data and information as may be prescribed
by the Board to assure that fullest practicable presentation of the facts for
the permanent record. An application shall contain the legal description of the
property involved; the nature of the relief requested to be granted by the
Board; grounds and reasons for which the appeal is taken; a site plan, drawn to
scale, showing the information for a zoning permit application; and a statement
giving the names and addresses of the owners of all property owners within 500
feet of the subject property. If the applicant is the only owner of property
within 500 feet of the subject property, then the statement shall contain the
names and addresses of the next adjacent property owners.
      (2)   Each application shall be verified by the person or persons
preparing the application attesting to the truth and correctness of all facts
and information presented with the application.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.180 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board, after notice of
appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by reasons of fact stated in
the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril of
life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than
by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board or by the District
Court on application, on notice to the Zoning Administrator from whom the
appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.181 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Before taking final action on any appeal, the Board shall hold a
public hearing thereon.
   (B)   Notice of a public hearing shall include the time and place of said
public hearing and the place where the contents of the appeal may be examined,
and shall be given in the following manner.
      (1)   A notice of the public hearing shall be given by one publication in
a newspaper having circulation in the general area of the appeal and in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county, not less than four days and no
more than 20 days prior to the date of the public hearing.
      (2)   An additional written notice shall be given to the property owners
contained in the statement included as a required part of the application by
placing said notice in the United States mail, not less than ten days prior to
the date of the public hearing.
         (a)   For mailing purposes, the names and addresses of such property
owners shall be taken from the records of the County Auditor.
         (b)   It shall be the intent of this section to give as full and
adequate notice as practicable to the persons substantially interested in the
appeal; however, failure to send notice to a person to receive said notice
shall not invalidate any decision of the Board provided such failure was not
intentional.
   (C)   The Board may recess a hearing in order to serve further notice upon
other property owners or persons that the Board determines may be interested in
the appeal or to obtain additional information. Upon recessing for this
purpose, the Board shall announce the time and date when said hearing will be
resumed.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.182 DECISIONS OF BOARD.
   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Board may, in conformity with
the provisions of law, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination as it believes proper and, to
that end, shall have the powers of the Zoning Administrator.
   (A)   The concurring vote of three members of the Board shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning
Administrator or any other administrative official, or to effect any variation
from the terms of this chapter, or to decide in favor of the application on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter; provided, however,
that, the action of the Board shall not become effective until after the
resolution of the Board, setting forth the full reason for its decision and the
vote of each member participating therein, has been filed in the office of the
Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Every decision made by the Board shall be supported by written
testimony or evidence submitted in connection therewith.
   (C)   In authorizing a variance, special exception or conditional use, the
Board may impose such conditions as it may deem necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter. These conditions may increase the required lot or
yard, control the location and number of vehicular access points to the
property, limit the number of signs, limit coverage or height of buildings
because of obstruction to view and reduction of light and air to adjacent
property, and require screening and landscaping where necessary to reduce noise
and glare and maintain the property in a character in keeping with the
surrounding area. In authorizing a variance, special exception or conditional
use with attached conditions, the Board shall require such evidence and
guarantee or bond as it may deem to be necessary, to enforce compliance with
the attached conditions. Any violation of the conditions when made a part of
the terms under which the variance, special exception or conditional use is
granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   The Board’s decision shall be binding upon the Zoning Administrator
and observed by him or her, and he or she shall incorporate the terms and
conditions of the same in the permit to the applicant, whenever a permit is
authorized by the Board.
   (E)   If any application for a variance shall have been denied by the Board,
then no new application for the same relief shall be considered by the Board
unless the Board should find that conditions have changed.
   (F)   The Board reserves the right to revoke the authorization of a
conditional use if the conditions specified for the use are not adhered to by
the applicant and subsequent parties; provided, however, that, no conditional
use shall be revoked without a public hearing as provided for herein.
   (G)   Whenever any application for a conditional use permit shall have been
denied by the Board of Adjustment, then no new application covering the same
property or the same property and additional property shall be filed with or
considered by the Board of Adjustment until one year shall have elapsed from
the date of the filing of the first application. In the event new evidence is
presented within 30 days of said denial, one re-application may be made of a
denied conditional use request. In the event said re-application results in a
denial, no new application shall be made until the elapse of the one-year
period described above.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.183 APPEAL FROM DECISION OF BOARD.
   Any person or persons or organization aggrieved by any decision of the Board
made under the provisions of this chapter may appeal such decision to a court
of competent jurisdiction, said appeal to be taken in accordance with the
provisions of Iowa Code Chapter 335.13, as amended.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.184 TIME LIMIT ON BOARD DECISION.
   If the property granted a variance, special exception or conditional use
permit is not developed as allowed within two years of Board action, the Board
may, after seven days’ notice in writing to the landowner, initiate action to
rescind the variance, special exception or conditional use granted. This can
occur only after a public hearing at which time the landowner can ask for a
time extension.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.185 EXPIRATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   In the event a conditional use permit is granted, the land use is
established and the land use subsequently discontinued for a period of two
years or more, the Board may, after seven days’ notice in writing to the
landowner, initiate action to rescind the conditional use permit granted. This
can occur only after a public hearing.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
ZONING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE
§ 154.200 ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to do any excavating, grading, erecting,
constructing, reconstructing, enlarging, altering or moving of any building or
structure until a zoning permit shall have been issued by the Zoning
Administrator. No zoning permit shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator
unless the proposed building or structure or use complies with all provisions
of this chapter, except when so ordered by the Board in the case of an appeal
of an administrative decision, variance, special exception or conditional use
granted in accordance with this chapter. It shall also be unlawful to use or
occupy any building, structure or land, or to change the use or occupancy of
any building, structure or land from one activity to another, or to change a
non-conforming use, without the issuance of a certificate of zoning compliance.
   (B)   Detached accessory buildings 120 or less square foot in size, which
are not attached to the ground in any way and which are located in the side or
rear yard, shall be exempt from the zoning permit requirement.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.201 APPLICATIONS FOR ZONING PERMITS.
   All applications for zoning permits shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator on approved forms, together with the filing fee as specified in §
154.009 of this chapter and shall be accompanied by such documentation as may
be necessary for the Zoning Administrator to make an appropriate determination
on the application.
   (A)   This documentation shall include plans in duplicate, drawn to scale,
showing the actual shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon or to be
changed in its use, in whole or in part; the exact location, size and height of
any buildings or structures to be erected or altered; the existing and intended
use of each building or structure or part thereof; the number of families,
dwellings or housekeeping units the building is designed to accommodate; and
when no buildings are involved, the location of the present use and proposed
use to be made of the lot; and such other information with regard to the lot
and neighboring lots as may be necessary to determine and provide for
enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever a lot is not provided and is not proposed to be provided with
public water and/or the disposal of sanitary wastes by means of public sewers,
the application for a zoning permit shall be accompanied by a certificate of
approval by the County Health Officer of the proposed method of water supply
and/or disposal of sanitary wastes.
   (C)   In addition to the documentation required above, on property where it
is proposed that the following land will be disturbed: up to 14% slopes, one
acre or more of land will be disturbed; 14 to 30% slope, 5,000 or more square
foot of land will be disturbed; 30 to 50% slope, 1,000 or more square foot, the
zoning permit application shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A pollution prevention plan approved by the appropriate soil and
water conservation district office; and
      (2)   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
approved by the state’s Department of Natural Resources (only required in the
situation where one acre or more of land will be disturbed).
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.202 ACTION BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator shall take action within 14 days on all Zoning
Permit applications which are filed in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant after such
copy shall have been marked either as approved or disapproved and attested to
same by the Zoning Administrator. If a zoning permit is refused, the Zoning
Administrator shall state the reasons for refusal in writing. The other copy of
the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the Zoning Administrator. In
no case shall the issuance of a zoning permit be construed as waiving any of
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.203 EXPIRATION OF ZONING PERMIT.
   If the work described in any zoning permit has not began within 24 months
from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and shall be
canceled by the Zoning Administrator; written notice thereof shall be given to
the persons affected. However, upon request, the Zoning Administrator may
extend this deadline for just cause shown by the applicant. If the work
described in any zoning permit has not been substantially completed within 24
months of the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and shall be
canceled by the Zoning Administrator; a written notice thereof shall be given
to the persons affected, together with notice that further work as described in
the canceled permit shall not proceed unless and until a new zoning permit has
been obtained.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.204 ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   Upon completion of the work described in a zoning permit and after the
inspection and approval thereof, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a
certificate of zoning compliance, which shall show and certify that such
building, structure or land, and use conforms with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (A)   A temporary certificate of zoning compliance may be issued by the
Zoning Administrator for a period not exceeding 24 months during alterations or
partial occupancy of a building pending its completion; provided that, such
temporary certificate may include such conditions and safeguards as will
protect the safety of the occupants and the public.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of certificates of
zoning compliance and a copy shall be furnished upon request to any person.
Failure to obtain a certificate of zoning compliance shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.205 CONSTRUCTION, USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATIONS, PLANS, PERMITS,
CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   Zoning permits or certificate of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
plans and application approved by the Zoning Administrator authorize only the
use, arrangement and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications, and no other use, arrangement or construction. Use, arrangement
or construction at variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
AMENDMENTS
§ 154.220 COUNTY BOARD MAY AMEND CHAPTER.
   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practice require, the County Board may, by ordinance, subject to the procedure
provided in this chapter, amend, supplement or change the regulations, district
boundaries or zoning classifications of property, now or hereafter established
by this chapter or amendments thereof.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.221 AUTHORIZATION FOR AMENDMENTS.
   An amendment to the text of this chapter or the Official Zoning Map may be
initiated by action of the County Board of Supervisors, County Planning and
Zoning Commission or County Board of Adjustment; or by application of an owner
of property to be changed or affected by the proposed amendment or supplement;
or by application signed by owners of 50% of all property lying within the area
proposed to be changed and also signed by owners of 50% of all property lying
within 500 feet of any part of the area proposed to be changed.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.222 APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   An application for an amendment shall be filed, upon the form
provided, with the Zoning Administrator for submission to the Commission. The
application shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount as shall be set by the
County Council from time to time and by such data and information as may be
prescribed by the Commission to assure the fullest practicable presentation of
facts for the permanent record. An application for a zoning text amendment
shall contain a statement setting forth the proposed amendment or supplement to
the regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a zoning map amendment shall contain a legal
description of the property for which the change is requested; the existing
zoning classification and the proposed zoning classification; and a statement
giving the names and addresses of the owners of all property lying within the
area proposed to be changed who are not part of the application, and the names
and addresses of the owners of all property lying within 500 feet of any part
of the area proposed to be changed. If the applicant is the only owner of
property within 500 feet of the property proposed to be changed, then the
statement shall include the names and addresses of the next adjacent property
owners. Each application shall be verified by the person or persons preparing
the application, attesting to the truth and correctness of all facts and
information presented with the application.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.223 PUBLIC HEARING BY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Before taking final action on a proposed amendment to the text of this
chapter or the Official Zoning Map, the Commission shall hold a public hearing
thereon.
   (B)   Notice of the public hearing shall include the time and place of said
public hearing and the place where the contents of the amendment may be
examined, and shall be given in the following manner.
      (1)   For an amendment to the text of this chapter, a notice of the
public hearing shall be given by one publication in all of the official
newspapers of the county not less than four, nor more than 20, days prior to
the public hearing.
      (2)   For an amendment to the Official Zoning Map, a notice of the public
hearing shall be given by one publication in a newspaper having the circulation
in the general area of the amendment and in a newspaper of general circulation
in the county, not less than four, nor more than 20, days prior to the date of
the public hearing.
      (3)   For an amendment to the Official Zoning Map, additional written
notice shall be given to the property owners contained in the statement
included as a required part of the application by placing said notice in the
United States mail, not less than ten days prior to the date of the public
hearing.
         (a)   For mailing purposes, the names and addresses of such property
owners shall be taken from the records of the County Auditor.
         (b)   It shall be the intent of this section to give as full and
adequate notice as practicable to the persons substantially interested in the
appeal; however, failure to send notice to a person as specified in this
section, or failure of a person to receive said notice shall not invalidate any
decision of the Commission; provided, such failure was not intentional.
         (c)   The requirements of this section shall not apply to a general
revision of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   The Commission may recess a hearing in order to serve further
notice upon other property owners or persons that the Commission determines may
be interested in the amendment or to obtain additional information.
      (2)   Upon recessing for this purpose, the Commission shall announce the
time and date when said hearing will be resumed.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.224 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   Following such hearing, the Commission may recommend that the
application be granted as requested, or it may recommend a modification of the
zoning amendment requested, or it may recommend that the application be denied.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Commission to submit to the County Board
its written recommendation on all applications for amendments, supplements or
changes to the regulations, district boundaries or zoning classifications of
property as established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.225 PUBLIC HEARINGS BY COUNTY BOARD.
   After receipt of the written recommendation of the proposed amendment from
the Commission, the County Board shall hold public hearings in accordance with
Iowa Code § 331.302, as amended.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.226 COUNTY BOARD ACTION.
   (A)   Following both such public hearings, the County Board shall consider
such recommendation by the Commission and vote upon the passage of the proposed
amendment.
   (B)   Passage of the proposed amendment shall require an affirmative vote of
not less than a simple majority of the entire County Board.
   (C)   In case of protest against any changes or amendments signed by the
owners of 20 percent or more either of the area included in such proposed
change, or of the area immediately adjacent thereof, such changes shall not
become effective, except by favorable vote of at least 60% of all the members
of the County Board.
   (D)   Whenever any application for an amendment, supplement or change of the
zoning or regulations herein contained or subsequently established shall have
been denied by the County Board, then no new application covering the same
property or the same property and additional property shall be filed with or
considered by the County Board or until one year shall have elapsed from the
date of the filing of the first application.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.227 RECORD OR AMENDMENT.
   In addition to the official ordinance number enacting the provisions of this
chapter, all ordinances passed and approved by the County Board amending the
text of this chapter or the Official Zoning Map shall be given individual
supplemental numbers. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a current,
permanent record of all amendments to the text of the ordinance and to the
Official Zoning Map in a form convenient for public inspection.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.228 MAP CHANGE PENDING ZONING PERMIT.
   Whenever the County Board has taken under advisement a change or amendment
of the Official Zoning Map from a less restricted district to a more restricted
district classification, as evidence by an application on file or resolution of
record, no zoning permit shall be issued within 90 days from the date of such
resolution which would authorize the construction of a building or the
establishment of a use which would become non-conforming under the contemplated
redistricting plan.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.229 REVOCATION OF MAP AMENDMENT.
   Unless any lot, tract or parcel of land hereafter zoned to a less
restrictive classification, as herein provided, has been used or developed for
such less restrictive classification within one year from such rezoning or,
unless there exists an unexpired zoning permit for the development thereof, at
the end of such one year, the Commission shall initiate, prior to the bona fide
commencement of the use or development of said land in its less restrictive
classification, and may recommend to the County Board that said land be rezoned
to its zoning classification as established at the date of the passage of this
chapter, after giving the official notice and holding a public hearing.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty for violating the provisions of this chapter shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Any person found in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a county infraction, unless specifically otherwise
noted, which is punishable by a fine in an amount as shall be set by the County
Council from time to time for the first offense and by a fine in an amount as
shall be set by the County Council from time to time for each and every repeat
offense.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violation is permitted to exist after
notification shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Each violation of §
154.087 of this chapter or of any regulation, order or ruling promulgated
hereunder shall constitute a simple misdemeanor and shall be punishable by fine
in an amount as shall be set by the County Council from time to time or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both, and each day a violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   RENEWAL, SERVICE AND URBAN DISTRICTS
      
II.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: RENEWAL, SERVICE AND URBAN DISTRICTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
6    - -    Establishing the Area Service System “B” road classification; maintenance
            policy
13   12-10- Establishing the Area Service System “C” road classification; access and
     1996   reclassification
15   3-25-  Dividing taxes levied on taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area
     1999
17   11-23- Dividing taxes levied on taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area No. 2
     1999
19   6-21-  Dividing taxes levied on taxable property in the Tall Corn Urban Renewal Area
     2001
20   7-17-  Designating the Timber Creek Ranch Tax Abatement Area
     2001
30   6-25-  Dividing taxes levied on taxable property in the Urban Renewal Area
     2013
 
TABLE II: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
7        12-13-1984  Joining membership of the Regional Airport Authority
-        4-10-1989   Amendment; membership in the Regional Airport Authority
8        11-14-1989  Agreement creating the Regional Airport Authority
                     Agreement creating the Regional Airport Authority between
35       3-7-2019    the county, the City of Guthrie Center and the City of
                     Panora
                    
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
34       9-25-2018      Amending the official zoning map; designating areas
                        from A-1 to M-2
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Iowa Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO IOWA CODE
Iowa Code Cite Code Section
Iowa Code Cite       Code Section
4                    10.06;
                     30.01
17A                  30.24
21                   30.24
                     130.01;
124                  130.02;
                     130.03
135C                 154.008
237                  154.008
252.13               30.26
252.27               30.26
252.37               30.24
252.42               30.26
306                  50.05
306.3                70.01
309.67               151.45
318                  50.05
320                  50.05
321                  70.17
321I.1               70.16
321I.8               70.16
321I.12              70.18
321.20B              70.19
321.234A(1)(a)       70.20
321.285(5)           70.01
321A.21              70.19
329                  154.087
329.3                154.087
331                  50.05
331.302              154.225
331.307              50.99
331.384(1)           154.067
                     152.01;
                     154.002;
335                  154.005;
                     154.087;
                     154.175
335.13               154.183
352.2                70.18
364.1                10.03
364.3(2)             10.99
364.12               150.06
364.14               10.05
380.2                10.08
                     153.01;
427B.26              153.03;
                     153.04
428.24 to 428.29     153.04;
                     153.06
435                  154.081;
                     154.082
441.21(1)(b) and (c) 153.06
441.21(8)(b) and (c) 153.04
455B.411, subs. 4    90.02
455D.3               52.02
477                  50.05
478                  50.05
479                  50.05
479A                 50.05
480                  50.05
718.5                10.10
808.14               10.12
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     150.01—
-        11-17-1977  150.06;
                     150.99
-        8-7-1980    30.01
2        10-14-1980  51.02;
                     51.99
5        12-13-1984  151.45—
                     151.49
6        - -         TSO Table I
7        12-13-1984  TSO Table II
7        8-30-1988   51.01
-        4-10-1989   TSO Table II
8        11-14-1989  TSO Table II
                     151.20—
9        3-24-1992   151.30;
                     151.99
                     50.01—
10       7-5-1994    50.05;
                     50.99
13       12-10-1996  TSO Table I
                     130.01—
14       2-25-1997   130.04;
                     130.99
                     52.01—
11A      - -1998     52.06;
                     52.99
15       3-25-1999   TSO Table I
17       11-23-1999  TSO Table I
19       6-21-2001   TSO Table I
20       7-17-2001   TSO Table I
2003-    10-21-2003  30.02
23       9-6-2005    30.02
24       7-25-2006   153.01—
                     153.08
25       4-10-2007   70.01;
                     70.99
26       10-30-2008  90.01—
                     90.07
                     154.001—
                     154.010;
                     154.026—
                     154.031;
                     154.045—
                     154.067;
                     154.080—
                     154.088;
                     154.100—
                     154.105;
                     154.120—
-        - -2010     154.125;
                     154.140—
                     154.143;
                     154.155—
                     154.164;
                     154.175—
                     154.185;
                     154.200—
                     154.205;
                     154.220—
                     154.229;
                     154.999
29       9-6-2011    11.01
29A      9-20-2011   11.01
30       6-25-2013   TSO Table I
32       4-12-2016   151.01—
                     151.05
                     152.01—
                     152.13;
                     152.25—
33       3-30-2017   152.39;
                     152.50—
                     152.52;
                     152.99
34       9-25-2018   TSO Table III
35       3-7-2019    TSO Table II
                     70.15—
36       1-21-2020   70.20;
                     70.99
37       - -         30.15—
                     30.26
                    
 
