CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE
CITY OF
HOLSTEIN, IOWA
Prepared By:   Local Government Professional Services, Inc.
DBA Iowa Codification
P. O. Box 244
114 E 5th Street
Storm Lake, Iowa 50588
(641) 355-4072
www.sc-ic.com
Adopted February 7, 2022, by Ordinance No. 250
SUPPLEMENT RECORD
SUPPLEMENT                        ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE
Supp. No. Repeals, Amends or Adds Ord. No. Date    Subject
Jun-22    92.02;                  251      6-6-22  Water Rates
          92.04(3)
          99.06;                  252      6-6-22  Sewer Rental Utility Rates
          99.07                                    and Sewer Debt Service
Jul-23    Ch. 160                 253      11-7-22 Floodplain Regulations
          92.02;                  254      6-5-23  Water Rates
          92.04(3)
          99.06;                  255      6-5-23  Sewer Rental Utility Rates
          99.07                                    and Debt Service
          106.08(1)               256      6-5-23  Garbage Collection Rates
Sep-24    Ch. 110                 257      6-11-24 Natural Gas Franchise
          Ch. 111                 258      6-11-24 Electric Franchise
          Ch. 117                 259      8-13-24 Urban Forestry Utility Fee
          92.02                   260      8-13-24 Water Rates
          99.06                   261      8-13-24 Sewer Service Charges
          106.08(1)               262      8-13-24 Collection Fees
          100.02                  263      8-13-24 Stormwater Drainage Fee
          100.05                  264      8-13-24 Stormwater Utility
Oct-24    Ch. 137                 265      9-10-24 Alley Vacation
 
CHAPTER 1
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
1.01 Title                  1.08 Amendments
1.02 Definitions            1.09 Catchlines and Notes
1.03 City Powers            1.10 Altering Code
1.04 Indemnity              1.11 Severability
1.05 Personal Injuries      1.12 Warrants
1.06 Rules of Construction  1.13 General Standards for Action
1.07 Extension of Authority 1.14 Standard Penalty
 
1.01   TITLE.
This code of ordinances shall be known and may be cited as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Holstein, Iowa.
1.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in this Code of Ordinances are defined in the Code
of Iowa, such definitions apply to their use in this Code of Ordinances unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council
or repugnant to the context of the provision. Other words and phrases used
herein have the following meanings, unless specifically defined otherwise in
another portion of this Code of Ordinances or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or repugnant to the
context of the provision:
1.   “Alley” means a public right-of-way, other than a street, affording
secondary means of access to abutting property.
2.   “City” means the City of Holstein, Iowa.
3.   “Clerk” means the city clerk of Holstein, Iowa.
4.   “Code” means the specific chapter of this Code of Ordinances in which a
specific subject is covered and bears a descriptive title word (such as the
Building Code and/or a standard code adopted by reference).
5.   “Code of Ordinances” means the Code of Ordinances of the City of Holstein,
Iowa.
6.   “Council” means the city council of Holstein, Iowa.
7.   “County” means Ida County, Iowa.
8.   “May” confers a power.
9.   “Measure” means an ordinance, amendment, resolution or motion.
10.   “Must” states a requirement.
11.   “Occupant” or “tenant,” applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
12.   “Ordinances” means the ordinances of the City of Holstein, Iowa, as
embodied in this Code of Ordinances, ordinances not repealed by the ordinance
adopting this Code of Ordinances, and those enacted hereafter.
13.   “Person” means an individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign
corporation, company, association or joint stock association, trust, or other
legal entity, and includes a trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar
representative thereof, but does not include a governmental body.
14.   “Public way” includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
15.   “Shall” imposes a duty.
16.   “Sidewalk” means that surfaced portion of the street between the edge of
the traveled way, surfacing, or curb line and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
17.   “State” means the State of Iowa.
18.   “Statutes” or “laws” means the latest edition of the Code of Iowa, as
amended.
19.   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Words that are not defined in this Code of Ordinances or by the Code of Iowa
have their ordinary meaning unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Council, or repugnant to the context of the
provision.
1.03   CITY POWERS.
The City may, except as expressly limited by the Iowa Constitution, and if not
inconsistent with the laws of the Iowa General Assembly, exercise any power and
perform any function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights,
privileges and property of the City and of its residents, and preserve and
improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort and convenience of its
residents and each and every provision of this Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed to be in the exercise of the foregoing powers and the performance of the
foregoing functions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.1)
1.04   INDEMNITY.
The applicant for any permit or license under this Code of Ordinances, by
making such application, assumes and agrees to pay for any injury to or death
of any person or persons whomsoever, and any loss of or damage to property
whatsoever, including all costs and expenses incident thereto, however arising
from or related to, directly, indirectly or remotely, the issuance of the
permit or license, or the doing of anything thereunder, or the failure of such
applicant, or the agents, employees or servants of such applicant, to abide by
or comply with any of the provisions of this Code of Ordinances or the terms
and conditions of such permit or license, and such applicant, by making such
application, forever agrees to indemnify the City and its officers, agents and
employees, and agrees to save them harmless from any and all claims, demands,
lawsuits or liability whatsoever for any loss, damage, injury or death,
including all costs and expenses incident thereto, by reason of the foregoing.
The provisions of this section shall be deemed to be a part of any permit or
license issued under this Code of Ordinances or any other ordinance of the City
whether expressly recited therein or not.
1.05   PERSONAL INJURIES.
When action is brought against the City for personal injuries alleged to have
been caused by its negligence, the City may notify in writing any person by
whose negligence it claims the injury was caused. The notice shall state the
pendency of the action, the name of the plaintiff, the name and location of the
court where the action is pending, a brief statement of the alleged facts from
which the cause arose, that the City believes that the person notified is
liable to it for any judgment rendered against the City, and asking the person
to appear and defend. A judgment obtained in the suit is conclusive in any
action by the City against any person so notified, as to the existence of the
defect or other cause of the injury or damage, as to the liability of the City
to the plaintiff in the first named action, and as to the amount of the damage
or injury. The City may maintain an action against the person notified to
recover the amount of the judgment together with all the expenses incurred by
the City in the suit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.14)
1.06   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the rules of statutory
construction as set forth in Chapter 4 of the Code of Iowa shall be utilized to
ascertain the intent of the Council with the understanding that the term
“statute” as used therein will be deemed to be synonymous with the term
“ordinance” when applied to this Code of Ordinances.
1.07   EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Whenever an officer or employee is required or authorized to do an act by a
provision of this Code of Ordinances, the provision shall be construed as
authorizing performance by a regular assistant, subordinate or a duly
authorized designee of said officer or employee.
1.08   AMENDMENTS.
All ordinances which amend, repeal or in any manner affect this Code of
Ordinances shall include proper reference to chapter, section, subsection or
paragraph to maintain an orderly codification of ordinances of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.2)
1.09   CATCHLINES AND NOTES.
The catchlines of the several sections of the Code of Ordinances, titles,
headings (chapter, section and subsection), editor’s notes, cross references
and State law references, unless set out in the body of the section itself,
contained in the Code of Ordinances, do not constitute any part of the law, and
are intended merely to indicate, explain, supplement or clarify the contents of
a section.
1.10   ALTERING CODE.
It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change or amend by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of the Code of Ordinances, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the Code of
Ordinances in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
1.11   SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision or part of the Code of Ordinances is adjudged invalid
or unconstitutional, such adjudication will not affect the validity of the Code
of Ordinances as a whole or any section, provision or part thereof not adjudged
invalid or unconstitutional.
1.12   WARRANTS.
If consent to enter upon or inspect any building, structure or property
pursuant to a municipal ordinance is withheld by any person having the lawful
right to exclude, the City officer or employee having the duty to enter upon or
conduct the inspection may apply to the Iowa District Court in and for the
County, pursuant to Section 808.14 of the Code of Iowa, for an administrative
search warrant. No owner, operator or occupant or any other person having
charge, care or control of any dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure, building
or premises shall fail or neglect, after presentation of a search warrant, to
permit entry therein by the municipal officer or employee.
1.13   GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ACTION.
Whenever this Code of Ordinances grants any discretionary power to the Council
or any commission, board or officer or employee of the City and does not
specify standards to govern the exercise of the power, the power shall be
exercised in light of the following standard: The discretionary power to grant,
deny or revoke any matter shall be considered in light of the facts and
circumstances then existing and as may be reasonably foreseeable, and due
consideration shall be given to the impact upon the public health, safety and
welfare, and the decision shall be that of a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances in the exercise of the police power.
1.14   STANDARD PENALTY.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this Code of Ordinances for
violation of any particular provision, section or chapter, any person failing
to perform a duty required by this Code of Ordinances or otherwise violating
any provision of this Code of Ordinances or any rule or regulation adopted
herein by reference shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of at least
$65.00 but not to exceed $625.00. The court may order imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days in lieu of a fine or in addition to a fine. † 1
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[2] and 903.1[1a])
 
Notes
1 † EDITOR’S NOTE: For civil penalty for violations of this Code of Ordinances, see
  Chapter 3.
CHAPTER 2
CHARTER
 
2.01 Title                              2.04 Number and Term of Council
2.02 Form of Government                 2.05 Term of Mayor
2.03 Powers and Duties of City Officers 2.06 Copies on File
 
2.01   TITLE.
This chapter may be cited as the charter of the City of Holstein, Iowa.† 2
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 74 adopting a charter for the City was passed and
2 approved by the Council on July 2, 1973, and was published on July 12, 1973, in
  the Holstein Advance. The term of office for the Mayor and members of the Council
  was extended to four years pursuant to an election held on November 8, 1977.
2.02   FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
The form of government of the City is the Mayor-Council form of government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
2.03   POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
The Council and Mayor and other City officers have such powers and shall
perform such duties as are authorized or required by State law and by the
ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the City.
2.04   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council Members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.05   TERM OF MAYOR.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
2.06   COPIES ON FILE.
The Clerk shall keep an official copy of the charter on file with the official
records of the Clerk and the Secretary of State, and shall keep copies of the
charter available at the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.1)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
 
3.01 Municipal Infraction    3.04 Civil Citations
3.02 Environmental Violation 3.05 Alternative Relief
3.03 Penalties               3.06 Alternative Penalties
 
3.01   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
A violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance or code herein adopted
by reference or the omission or failure to perform any act or duty required by
the same, with the exception of those provisions specifically provided under
State law as a felony, an aggravated misdemeanor, or a serious misdemeanor, or
a simple misdemeanor under Chapters 687 through 747 of the Code of Iowa, is a
municipal infraction punishable by civil penalty as provided herein. † 3
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[3])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: For criminal penalty for violations of this Code of
3 Ordinances, see Section
  1.14.
3.02   ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATION.
A municipal infraction which is a violation of Chapter 455B of the Code of Iowa
or of a standard established by the City in consultation with the Department of
Natural Resources, or both, may be classified as an environmental violation.
However, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable until the City
has offered to participate in informal negotiations regarding the violation or
to the following specific violations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22 [1])
1.   A violation arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment standard or
requirement referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8.
2.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying or storing of grain, by a person not engaged in the industrial
production or manufacturing of grain products.
3.   The discharge of airborne residue from grain, created by the handling,
drying or storing of grain, by a person engaged in such industrial production
or manufacturing if such discharge occurs from September 15 to January 15.
3.03   PENALTIES.
A municipal infraction is punishable by the following civil penalties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22 [1])
1.   Standard Civil Penalties.
   A.   First Offense – Not to exceed $750.00
   B.   Each Repeat Offense – Not to exceed $1,000.00
Each day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a repeat
offense.
2.   Special Civil Penalties.
   A.   A municipal infraction arising from noncompliance with a pretreatment
standard or requirement, referred to in 40 C.F.R. §403.8, by an industrial user
is punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each day a violation
exists or continues.
   B.   A municipal infraction classified as an environmental violation is
punishable by a penalty of not more than $1,000.00 for each occurrence.
However, an environmental violation is not subject to such penalty if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The violation results solely from conducting an initial startup,
cleaning, repairing, performing scheduled maintenance, testing, or conducting a
shutdown of either equipment causing the violation or the equipment designed to
reduce or eliminate the violation.
      (2)   The City is notified of the violation within 24 hours from the time
that the violation begins.
      (3)   The violation does not continue in existence for more than eight
hours.
3.   Administrative Penalty; Notice of Violation. Municipal infractions may be
initially brought upon simple notice of violation and if the person charged
admits the violation, upon payment of the penalty to the City and the
performance of any other act required by law to be performed, such person shall
not be further prosecuted or assessed any costs or other expenses for such
violation, and the City shall retain all penalties thus collected. Where a
municipal infraction is not admitted upon simple notice by the person charged
or where the person charged fails to perform any other act required to be
performed, or both, a civil citation seeking a penalty for a municipal
infraction, with or without additional relief, may be initially filed in the
court. This section does not impose a duty to initially charge all municipal
infractions upon simple notice of violation.
4.   Costs Assessed. Any costs such as certified mail, attorney fees, and court
costs can be assessed by the court to the defendant.
3.04   CIVIL CITATIONS.
Any officer authorized by the City to enforce this Code of Ordinances may issue
a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction. A copy of the
citation may be served by personal service as provided in Rule of Civil
Procedure 1.305, by certified mail addressed to the defendant at defendant’s
last known mailing address, return receipt requested, or by publication in the
manner as provided in Rule of Civil Procedure 1.310 and subject to the
conditions of Rule of Civil Procedure 1.311. A copy of the citation shall be
retained by the issuing officer, and the original citation shall be sent to the
Clerk of the District Court. The citation shall serve as notification that a
civil offense has been committed and shall contain the following information:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22 [4])
1.   The name and address of the defendant.
2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation.
3.   The location and time of the infraction.
4.   The amount of civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative relief
sought, or both.
5.   The manner, location, and time in which the penalty may be paid.
6.   The time and place of court appearance.
7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court.
8.   The legal description of the affected real property, if applicable.
If the citation affects real property and charges a violation relating to the
condition of the property, including a building code violation, a local housing
regulation violation, a housing code violation or a public health or safety
violation, after filing the citation with the Clerk of the District Court, the
City shall also file the citation in the office of the County Treasurer.
3.05   ALTERNATIVE RELIEF.
Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude the
City from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action. Such
alternative relief may include, but is not limited to, an order for abatement
or injunctive relief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22 [8])
3.06   ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES.
This chapter does not preclude a peace officer from issuing a criminal citation
for a violation of this Code of Ordinances or regulation if criminal penalties
are also provided for the violation. Nor does it preclude or limit the
authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Code of Ordinances by
criminal sanctions or other lawful means.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.22[11])
CHAPTER 5
OPERATING PROCEDURES.
 
5.01 Oaths                 5.07 Conflict of Interest
5.02 Bonds                 5.08 Resignations
5.03 Duties: General       5.09 Removal of Appointed Officers and Employees
5.04 Books and Records     5.10 Vacancies
5.05 Transfer to Successor 5.11 Gifts
5.06 Meetings
 
5.01   OATHS.
The oath of office shall be required and administered in accordance with the
following:
1.   Qualify for Office. Each elected or appointed officer shall qualify for
office by taking the prescribed oath and by giving, when required, a bond. The
oath shall be taken, and bond provided, after being certified as elected but
not later than noon of the first day which is not a Sunday or a legal holiday
in January of the first year of the term for which the officer was elected.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.1)
2.   Prescribed Oath. The prescribed oath is: “I, (name), do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Iowa, and that I will faithfully and impartially, to the best
of my ability, discharge all duties of the office of (name of office) in
Holstein as now or hereafter required by law.”
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63.10)
3.   Officers Empowered to Administer Oaths. The following are empowered to
administer oaths and to take affirmations in any matter pertaining to the
business of their respective offices:
   A.   Mayor
   B.   City Clerk
   C.   Members of all boards, commissions or bodies created by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 63A.2)
5.02   BONDS.
Surety bonds are provided in accordance with the following:
1.   Required. The Council shall provide by resolution for a surety bond or
blanket position bond running to the City and covering the Mayor, Clerk,
Treasurer and such other officers and employees as may be necessary and
advisable.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.13)
2.   Bonds Approved. Bonds shall be approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.19)
3.   Bonds Filed. All bonds, after approval and proper record, shall be filed
with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.23[6])
4.   Record. The Clerk shall keep a book, to be known as the “Record of
Official Bonds” in which shall be recorded the official bonds of all City
officers, elective or appointive.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 64.24[3])
5.03   DUTIES: GENERAL.
Each municipal officer shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
prescribed by law and this Code of Ordinances, or as otherwise directed by the
Council unless contrary to State law or City charter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.04   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
All books and records required to be kept by law or ordinance shall be open to
examination by the public upon request, unless some other provisions of law
expressly limit such right or require such records to be kept confidential.
Access to public records which are combined with data processing software shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 22.2 and 22.3A)
5.05   TRANSFER TO SUCCESSOR.
Each officer shall transfer to his or her successor in office all books,
papers, records, documents and property in the officer’s custody and
appertaining to that office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
5.06   MEETINGS.
All meetings of the Council, any board or commission, or any multi-membered
body formally and directly created by any of the foregoing bodies shall be held
in accordance with the following:
1.   Notice of Meetings. Reasonable notice, as defined by State law, of the
time, date and place of each meeting, and its tentative agenda shall be given.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.4)
2.   Meetings Open. All meetings shall be held in open session unless closed
sessions are held as expressly permitted by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
3.   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings showing the date, time and
place, the members present, and the action taken at each meeting. The minutes
shall show the results of each vote taken and information sufficient to
indicate the vote of each member present. The vote of each member present shall
be made public at the open session. The minutes shall be public records open to
public inspection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.3)
4.   Closed Session. A closed session may be held only by affirmative vote of
either two-thirds of the body or all of the members present at the meeting and
in accordance with Chapter 21 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.5)
5.   Cameras and Recorders. The public may use cameras or recording devices at
any open session.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.7)
6.   Electronic Meetings. A meeting may be conducted by electronic means only
in circumstances where such a meeting in person is impossible or impractical
and then only in compliance with the provisions of Chapter 21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 21.8)
5.07   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
A City officer or employee shall not have an interest, direct or indirect, in
any contract or job of work or material or the profits thereof or services to
be furnished or performed for the City, unless expressly permitted by law. A
contract entered into in violation of this section is void. The provisions of
this section do not apply to:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5)
1.   Compensation of Officers. The payment of lawful compensation of a City
officer or employee holding more than one City office or position, the holding
of which is not incompatible with another public office or is not prohibited by
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3a])
2.   Investment of Funds. The designation of a bank or trust company as a
depository, paying agent, or for investment of funds.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3b])
3.   City Treasurer. An employee of a bank or trust company, who serves as
Treasurer of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3c])
4.   Stock Interests. Contracts in which a City officer or employee has an
interest solely by reason of employment, or a stock interest of the kind
described in subsection 8 of this section, or both, if the contracts are made
by competitive bid in writing, publicly invited and opened, or if the
remuneration of employment will not be directly affected as a result of the
contract and the duties of employment do not directly involve the procurement
or preparation of any part of the contract. The competitive bid qualification
of this subsection does not apply to a contract for professional services not
customarily awarded by competitive bid.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3e])
5.   Newspaper. The designation of an official newspaper.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3f])
6.   Existing Contracts. A contract in which a City officer or employee has an
interest if the contract was made before the time the officer or employee was
elected or appointed, but the contract may not be renewed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3g])
7.   Volunteers. Contracts with volunteer firefighters or civil defense
volunteers.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3h])
8.   Corporations. A contract with a corporation in which a City officer or
employee has an interest by reason of stock holdings when less than five
percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the officer or employee or the spouse or immediate
family of such officer or employee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3i])
9.   Contracts. Contracts made by the City upon competitive bid in writing,
publicly invited and opened.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3d])
10.   Cumulative Purchases. Contracts not otherwise permitted by this section,
for the purchase of goods or services that benefit a City officer or employee,
if the purchases benefiting that officer or employee do not exceed a cumulative
total purchase price of $6,000.00 in a fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3j])
11.   Franchise Agreements. Franchise agreements between the City and a utility
and contracts entered into by the City for the provision of essential City
utility services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3k])
12.   Third Party Contracts. A contract that is a bond, note or other
obligation of the City and the contract is not acquired directly from the City
but is acquired in a transaction with a third party who may or may not be the
original underwriter, purchaser or obligee of the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.5[3l])
5.08   RESIGNATIONS.
An elected officer who wishes to resign may do so by submitting a resignation
in writing to the Clerk so that it shall be properly recorded and considered. A
person who resigns from an elective office is not eligible for appointment to
the same office during the time for which the person was elected, if during
that time the compensation of the office has been increased.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[9])
5.09   REMOVAL OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
Except as otherwise provided by State or City law, all persons appointed to
City office or employment may be removed by the officer or body making the
appointment, but every such removal shall be by written order. The order shall
give the reasons, be filed in the office of the Clerk, and a copy shall be sent
by certified mail to the person removed, who, upon request filed with the Clerk
within 30 days after the date of mailing the copy, shall be granted a public
hearing before the Council on all issues connected with the removal. The
hearing shall be held within 30 days after the date the request is filed,
unless the person removed requests a later date.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.15)
5.10   VACANCIES.
A vacancy in an elective City office during a term of office shall be filled in
accordance with Section 372.13[2] of the Code of Iowa. 
5.11   GIFTS.
Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 68B of the Code of Iowa, a public
official, public employee or candidate, or that person’s immediate family
member, shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or receive any gift or series
of gifts from a “restricted donor” as defined in Chapter 68B and a restricted
donor shall not, directly or indirectly, individually or jointly with one or
more other restricted donors, offer or make a gift or a series of gifts to a
public official, public employee or candidate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 68B.22)
CHAPTER 6
CITY ELECTIONS
 
6.01 Nominating Method to Be Used 6.04 Preparation of Petition and Affidavit
6.02 Nominations by Petition      6.05 Filing, Presumption, Withdrawals,
                                  Objections
6.03 Adding Name by Petition      6.06 Persons Elected
 
6.01   NOMINATING METHOD TO BE USED.
All candidates for elective municipal offices shall be nominated under the
provisions of Chapter 45 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.3)
6.02   NOMINATIONS BY PETITION.
Nominations for elective municipal offices of the City may be made by
nomination paper or papers signed by not less than 10 eligible electors,
residents of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.1)
6.03   ADDING NAME BY PETITION.
The name of a candidate placed upon the ballot by any other method than by
petition shall not be added by petition for the same office.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.2)
6.04   PREPARATION OF PETITION AND AFFIDAVIT.
Nomination papers shall include a petition and an affidavit of candidacy. The
petition and affidavit shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the
State Commissioner of Elections, shall include information required by the Code
of Iowa, and shall be signed in accordance with the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.3, 45.5, and 45.6)
6.05   FILING, PRESUMPTION, WITHDRAWALS, OBJECTIONS.
The time and place of filing nomination petitions, the presumption of validity
thereof, the right of a candidate so nominated to withdraw and the effect of
such withdrawal, and the right to object to the legal sufficiency of such
petitions, or to the eligibility of the candidate, shall be governed by the
appropriate provisions of Chapter 44 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 45.4)
6.06   PERSONS ELECTED.
The candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for each office on the
ballot are elected, to the extent necessary to fill the positions open.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.8[3])
CHAPTER 7
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
 
7.01 Purpose         7.05 Operating Budget Preparation
7.02 Finance Officer 7.06 Budget Amendments
7.03 Cash Control    7.07 Accounting
7.04 Fund Control    7.08 Financial Reports
 
7.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and provide for rules and
regulations governing the management of the financial affairs of the City.
7.02   FINANCE OFFICER.
The City Administrator/Clerk is the finance and accounting officer of the City
and is responsible for the administration of the provisions of this chapter.
7.03   CASH CONTROL.
To assure the proper accounting and safe custody of moneys the following shall
apply:
1.   Deposit of Funds. All moneys or fees collected for any purpose by any City
officer shall be deposited through the office of the finance officer. If any
said fees are due to an officer, they shall be paid to the officer by check
drawn by the finance officer and approved by the Council only upon such
officer’s making adequate reports relating thereto as required by law,
ordinance or Council directive.
2.   Deposits and Investments. All moneys belonging to the City shall be
promptly deposited in depositories selected by the Council in amounts not
exceeding the authorized depository limitation established by the Council or
invested in accordance with the City’s written investment policy and State law,
including joint investments as authorized by Section 384.21 of the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.21, 12B.10, 12C.1)
3.   Petty Cash Fund. The finance officer shall be custodian of a petty cash
fund for the payment of small claims for minor purchases, collect-on-delivery
transportation charges and small fees customarily paid at the time of rendering
a service, for which payments the finance officer shall obtain some form of
receipt or bill acknowledged as paid by the vendor or agent. At such time as
the petty cash fund is approaching depletion, the finance officer shall draw a
check for replenishment in the amount of the accumulated expenditures and said
check and supporting detail shall be submitted to the Council as a claim in the
usual manner for claims and charged to the proper funds and accounts. It shall
not be used for salary payments or other personal services or personal
expenses.
7.04   FUND CONTROL.
There shall be established and maintained separate and distinct funds in
accordance with the following:
1.   Revenues. All moneys received by the City shall be credited to the proper
fund as required by law, ordinance or resolution.
2.   Expenditures. No disbursement shall be made from a fund unless such
disbursement is authorized by law, ordinance or resolution, was properly
budgeted, and supported by a claim approved by the Council.
3.   Emergency Fund. No transfer may be made from any fund to the Emergency
Fund.
(IAC, 545-2.5 [384,388], Sec. 2.5[2])
4.   Debt Service Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by State law,
moneys may be transferred from any other City fund to the Debt Service Fund to
meet payments of principal and interest. Such transfers must be authorized by
the original budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[3])
5.   Capital Improvements Reserve Fund. Except where specifically prohibited by
State law, moneys may be transferred from any City fund to the Capital
Improvements Reserve Fund. Such transfers must be authorized by the original
budget or a budget amendment.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388] Sec. 2.5[4])
6.   Utility and Enterprise Funds. A surplus in a Utility or Enterprise Fund
may be transferred to any other City fund, except the Emergency Fund, by
resolution of the Council. A surplus may exist only after all required
transfers have been made to any restricted accounts in accordance with the
terms and provisions of any revenue bonds or loan agreements relating to the
Utility or Enterprise Fund. A surplus is defined as the cash balance in the
operating account or the unrestricted net position calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, after adding back the net
pension and other postemployment benefits liabilities and the related deferred
inflows of resources and deducting the related deferred outflows of resources,
in excess of:
   A.   The amount of the expenses of disbursements for operating and
maintaining the utility or enterprise for the preceding three months; and
   B.   The amount necessary to make all required transfers to restricted
accounts for the succeeding three months.
(IAC, 545-2.5[384,388], Sec. 2.5[5])
7.   Balancing of Funds. Fund accounts shall be reconciled at the close of each
month and a report thereof submitted to the Council.
7.05   OPERATING BUDGET PREPARATION.
The annual operating budget of the City shall be prepared in accordance with
the following:
1.   Proposal Prepared. The finance officer is responsible for preparation of
the annual budget detail, for review by the Mayor and Council and adoption by
the Council in accordance with directives of the Mayor and Council.
2.   Boards and Commissions. All boards, commissions, and other administrative
agencies of the City that are authorized to prepare and administer budgets must
submit their budget proposals to the finance officer for inclusion in the
proposed City budget at such time and in such form as required by the Council.
3.   Submission to Council. The finance officer shall submit the completed
budget proposal to the Council each year at such time as directed by the
Council.
4.   Resolution Establishing Maximum Property Tax Dollars. The Council shall
adopt a resolution establishing the total maximum property tax dollars that may
be certified for levy that includes taxes for City government purposes under
Code of Iowa Section 384.1, for the City’s trust and agency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.6, Subsection 1, for the City’s emergency fund under Code of
Iowa Section 384.8, and for the levies authorized under Code of Iowa Section
384.12, Subsections 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, and 21, but excluding additions
approved at election under Code of Iowa Section 384.12, Subsection 19.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.15A)
   A.   The Council shall set a time and place for a public hearing on the
resolution before the date for adoption of the resolution and shall publish
notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days prior to the
hearing in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
   B.   If the City has an internet site, the notice shall also be posted and
clearly identified on the City’s internet site for public viewing beginning on
the date of the newspaper publication or public posting, as applicable.
Additionally, if the City maintains a social media account on one or more
social media applications, the public hearing notice or an electronic link to
the public hearing notice shall be posted on each such account on the same day
as the publication of the notice. All of the following shall be included in the
notice:
      (1)   The sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property taxes
certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection and the
current fiscal year’s combined property tax levy rate for such amount that is
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (2)   The effective tax rate calculated using the sum of the current
fiscal year’s actual property taxes certified for levy under the levies
specified in this subsection, applicable to taxable property in the City other
than property used and assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (3)   The sum of the proposed maximum property tax dollars that may be
certified for levy for the budget year under the levies specified in this
subsection and the proposed combined property tax levy rate for such amount
applicable to taxable property in the City other than property used and
assessed for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
      (4)   If the proposed maximum property tax dollars specified under
Subparagraph (3) exceed the current fiscal year’s actual property tax dollars
certified for levy specified in Subparagraph (1), a statement of the major
reasons for the increase.
Proof of publication shall be filed with and preserved by the County Auditor.
The Department of Management shall prescribe the form for the public hearing
notice for cities and the form for the resolution to be adopted by the Council
under Paragraph C of this subsection.
   C.   At the public hearing, the Council shall receive oral or written
objections from any resident or property owner of the City. After all
objections have been received and considered, the Council may decrease, but not
increase, the proposed maximum property tax dollar amount for inclusion in the
resolution and shall adopt the resolution and file the resolution with the
County Auditor as required under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3.
   D.   If the sum of the maximum property tax dollars for the budget year
specified in the resolution under the levies specified in this subsection
exceeds 102 percent of the sum of the current fiscal year’s actual property
taxes certified for levy under the levies specified in this subsection, the
Council shall be required to adopt the resolution by a two-thirds majority of
the membership of the Council.
   E.   If the City has an internet site, in addition to filing the resolution
with the Auditor under Code of Iowa Section 384.16, Subsection 3, the adopted
resolution shall be posted and clearly identified on the City’s internet site
for public viewing within 10 days of approval by the Council. The posted
resolution for a budget year shall continue to be accessible for public viewing
on the internet site along with resolutions posted for all subsequent budget
years.
5.   Council Review. The Council shall review the proposed budget and may make
any adjustments it deems appropriate in the budget before accepting such
proposal for publication, hearing, and final adoption.
6.   Notice of Hearing. Following, and not until adoption of the resolution
required under Subsection 4 of this section, the Council shall set a time and
place for public hearing on the budget to be held before March 31 and shall
publish notice of the hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days before the
hearing. A summary of the proposed budget and a description of the procedure
for protesting the City budget under Section 384.19 of the Code of Iowa, in the
form prescribed by the Director of the Department of Management, shall be
included in the notice. Proof of publication of the notice under this
subsection and a copy of the resolution adopted under Subsection 4 of this
section must be filed with the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[3])
7.   Copies of Budget on File. Not less than 20 days before the date that the
budget must be certified to the County Auditor and not less than 10 days before
the public hearing, the Clerk shall make available a sufficient number of
copies of the detailed budget to meet the requests of taxpayers and
organizations, and have them available for distribution at the offices of the
Mayor and Clerk and at the City library.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[2])
8.   Adoption and Certification. After the hearing, the Council shall adopt, by
resolution, a budget for at least the next fiscal year and the Clerk shall
certify the necessary tax levy for the next fiscal year to the County Auditor
and the County Board of Supervisors. The tax levy certified may be less than,
but not more than, the amount estimated in the proposed budget submitted at the
final hearing or the applicable amount specified in the resolution adopted
under Subsection 4 of this section. Two copies each of the detailed budget as
adopted and of the tax certificate must be transmitted to the County Auditor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.16[5])
7.06   BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
A City budget finally adopted for the following fiscal year becomes effective
July 1 and constitutes the City appropriation for each program and purpose
specified therein until amended as provided by this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.18)
1.   Program Increase. Any increase in the amount appropriated to a program
must be prepared, adopted and subject to protest in the same manner as the
original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.2 [384, 388])
2.   Program Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one program to
another must be prepared, adopted and subject to protest in the same manner as
the original budget.
(IAC, 545-2.3 [384, 388])
3.   Activity Transfer. Any transfer of appropriation from one activity to
another activity within a program must be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(IAC, 545-2.4 [384, 388])
4.   Administrative Transfers. The Treasurer shall have the authority to
adjust, by transfer or otherwise, the appropriations allocated within a
specific activity without prior Council approval.
(IAC, 545-2.4 [384, 388])
7.07   ACCOUNTING.
The accounting records of the City shall consist of not less than the
following:
1.   Books of Original Entry. There shall be established and maintained books
of original entry to provide a chronological record of cash received and
disbursed.
2.   General Ledger. There shall be established and maintained a general ledger
controlling all cash transactions, budgetary accounts and for recording
unappropriated surpluses.
3.   Checks. Checks shall be prenumbered and signed by the Clerk following
Council approval, except as provided by Subsection 5 hereof.
4.   Budget Accounts. There shall be established such individual accounts to
record receipts by source and expenditures by program and activity as will
provide adequate information and control for budgeting purposes as planned and
approved by the Council. Each individual account shall be maintained within its
proper fund and so kept that receipts can be immediately and directly compared
with revenue estimates and expenditures can be related to the authorizing
appropriation. No expenditure shall be posted except to the appropriation for
the function and purpose for which the expense was incurred.
5.   Immediate Payment Authorized. The Council may by resolution authorize the
Clerk to issue checks for immediate payment of amounts due, which if not paid
promptly would result in loss of discount, penalty for late payment or
additional interest cost. Any such payments made shall be reported to the
Council for review and approval with and in the same manner as other claims at
the next meeting following such payment. The resolution authorizing immediate
payment shall specify the type of payment so authorized and may include but is
not limited to payment of utility bills, contractual obligations, payroll and
bond principal and interest.
6.   Utilities. The finance officer shall perform and be responsible for
accounting functions of the municipally owned utilities.
7.08   FINANCIAL REPORTS.
The finance officer shall prepare and file the following financial reports:
1.   Monthly Reports. There shall be submitted to the Council each month a
report showing the activity and status of each fund, program, sub-program and
activity for the preceding month.
2.   Annual Report. Not later than December 1 of each year there shall be
published an annual report containing a summary for the preceding fiscal year
of all collections and receipts, all accounts due the City, and all
expenditures, the current public debt of the City, and the legal debt limit of
the City for the current fiscal year. A copy of the annual report must be filed
with the Auditor of State not later than December 1 of each year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.22)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS.
 
8.01 Purpose                        8.06 Applications
8.02 Definitions                    8.07 Approval
8.03 Period of Partial Exemption    8.08 Exemption Repealed
8.04 Amounts Eligible for Exemption 8.09 Dual Exemptions Prohibited
8.05 Limitations
 
8.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a partial exemption from property
taxation of the actual value added to industrial real estate by the new
construction of industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses
and distribution centers.
8.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Actual value added” means the actual value added as of the first year for
which the exemption is received.
2.   “Distribution center” means a building or structure used primarily for the
storage of goods which are intended for subsequent shipment to retail outlets.
Distribution center does not mean a building or structure used primarily to
store raw agricultural products, used primarily by a manufacturer to store
goods to be used in the manufacturing process, used primarily for the storage
of petroleum products, or used for the retail sale of goods.
3.   “New construction” means new buildings and structures and includes new
buildings and structures which are constructed as additions to existing
buildings and structures. New construction does not include reconstruction of
an existing building or structure which does not constitute complete
replacement of an existing building or structure or refitting of an existing
building or structure unless the reconstruction of an existing building or
structure is required due to economic obsolescence and the reconstruction is
necessary to implement recognized industry standards for the manufacturing and
processing of specific products and the reconstruction is required for the
owner of the building or structure to continue competitively to manufacture or
process those products, which determination shall receive prior approval from
the City Council of the City upon the recommendation of the Iowa Department of
Economic Development.
4.   “Research-service facilities” means a building or group of buildings
devoted primarily to research and development activities, including, but not
limited to, the design and production or manufacture of prototype products for
experimental use, and corporate research services which do not have a primary
purpose of providing on-site services to the public.
5.   “Warehouse” means a building or structure used as a public warehouse for
the storage of goods pursuant to Chapter 554, Article 7, of the Code of Iowa,
except that it does not mean a building or structure used primarily to store
raw agricultural products or from which goods are sold at retail.
8.03   PERIOD OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.
The actual value added to industrial real estate by the new construction of
industrial real estate, research-service facilities, warehouses, and
distribution centers is eligible to receive a partial exemption from taxation
for a period of five years. The exemption shall also apply to the acquisition
of or improvement to machinery and equipment assessed as real estate pursuant
to Section 427A.1[1e] of the Code of Iowa, unless the machinery or equipment is
part of the normal replacement or operating process to maintain or expand the
existing operational status.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.04   AMOUNTS ELIGIBLE FOR EXEMPTION.
The amount of actual value added which is eligible to be exempt from taxation
shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
1.   For the first year, 75 percent
2.   For the second year, 60 percent
3.   For the third year, 45 percent
4.   For the fourth year, 30 percent
5.   For the fifth year, 15 percent
8.05   LIMITATIONS.
The granting of the exemption under this chapter for new construction
constituting complete replacement of an existing building or structure shall
not result in the assessed value of the industrial real estate being reduced
below the assessed value of the industrial real estate before the start of the
new construction added.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.3)
8.06   APPLICATIONS.
An application shall be filed for each project resulting in actual value added
for which an exemption is claimed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
1.   The application for exemption shall be filed by the owner of the property
with the local assessor by February 1 of the assessment year in which the value
added is first assessed for taxation.
2.   Applications for exemption shall be made on forms prescribed by the
Director of Revenue and shall contain information pertaining to the nature of
the improvement, its cost, and other information deemed necessary by the
Director of Revenue.
8.07   APPROVAL.
A person may submit a proposal to the City Council to receive prior approval
for eligibility for a tax exemption on new construction. If the City Council
resolves to consider such proposal, it shall publish notice and hold a public
hearing thereon. Thereafter, at least 30 days after such hearing the City
Council, by ordinance, may give its prior approval of a tax exemption for new
construction if the new construction is in conformance with City zoning. Such
prior approval shall not entitle the owner to exemption from taxation until the
new construction has been completed and found to be qualified real estate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.4)
8.08   EXEMPTION REPEALED.
When in the opinion of the City Council continuation of the exemption granted
by this chapter ceases to be of benefit to the City, the City Council may
repeal this chapter, but all existing exemptions shall continue until their
expiration.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 427B.5)
8.09   DUAL EXEMPTIONS PROHIBITED.
A property tax exemption under this chapter shall not be granted if the
property for which the exemption is claimed has received any other property tax
exemption authorized by law.
CHAPTER 9
URBAN RENEWAL.
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted and provide for Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect, for division of tax levied on taxable
property.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED NAME OF AREA
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted and provide for Urban Renewal Areas in the City and
remain in full force and effect, for division of tax levied on taxable
property.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED          NAME OF AREA
153           May 20, 1996     Holstein Urban Renewal Area No. 1
165           August 31, 1998  Holstein Urban Renewal Area No. 2
176           March 12, 2001   Holstein Urban Renewal Area No. 3
194           August 7, 2006   Commercial Urban Renewal Area – 1st Coop
196           February 5, 2007 Holstein Housing Urban Renewal Area – Benning
                               Drive
232           June 2, 2014     Holstein Urban Renewal Area #6 – Fouts 1st
                               Addition
 
CHAPTER 10
URBAN REVITALIZATION.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted designating Urban Revitalization Areas in the City
and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED          NAME OF AREA
130           January 21, 1991 Holstein Revitalization Area
220           January 3, 2011  Holstein Elementary Estates Revitalization Area
                               (Residential Area #1)
 
CHAPTER 15
MAYOR.
 
15.01 Term of Office    15.04 Compensation
15.02 Powers and Duties 15.05 Voting
15.03 Appointments
 
15.01   TERM OF OFFICE.
The Mayor is elected for a term of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 376.2)
15.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Mayor are as follows:
1.   Chief Executive Officer. Act as the chief executive officer of the City
and presiding officer of the Council, supervise all departments of the City
(except for supervisory duties delegated to the City Administrator), give
direction to department heads concerning the functions of the departments, and
have the power to examine all functions of the municipal departments, their
records and to call for special reports from department heads at any time.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
2.   Proclamation of Emergency. Have authority to take command of the police
and govern the City by proclamation, upon making a determination that a time of
emergency or public danger exists. Within the City limits, the Mayor has all
the powers conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorders.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[2])
3.   Special Meetings. Call special meetings of the Council when the Mayor
deems such meetings necessary to the interests of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[1])
4.   Mayor’s Veto. Sign, veto or take no action on an ordinance, amendment or
resolution passed by the Council. The Mayor may veto an ordinance, amendment or
resolution within fourteen days after passage. The Mayor shall explain the
reasons for the veto in a written message to the Council at the time of the
veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.5 and 380.6[2])
5.   Reports to Council. Make such oral or written reports to the Council as
required. These reports shall concern municipal affairs generally, the
municipal departments, and recommendations suitable for Council action.
6.   Negotiations. Represent the City in all negotiations properly entered into
in accordance with law or ordinance. The Mayor shall not represent the City
where this duty is specifically delegated to another officer by law, ordinance,
or Council direction.
7.   Contracts. Whenever authorized by the Council, sign contracts on behalf of
the City.
8.   Professional Services. Upon order of the Council, secure for the City such
specialized and professional services not already available to the City. In
executing the order of the Council, the Mayor shall act in accordance with the
Code of Ordinances and the laws of the State.
9.   Licenses and Permits. Sign all licenses and permits which have been
granted by the Council, except those designated by law or ordinance to be
issued by another municipal officer.
10.   Nuisances. Issue written order for removal, at public expense, any
nuisance for which no person can be found responsible and liable.
11.   Absentee Officer. Make appropriate provision that duties of any absentee
officer be carried on during such absence.
15.03   APPOINTMENTS.
The Mayor shall appoint the following officials:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
1.   Mayor Pro Tem
2.   Mayor Pro Tem Alternate
3.   City Treasurer
4.   Centennial Commission
5.   Housing Commission
6.   Library Board of Trustees
7.   Parks and Recreation Board
15.04   COMPENSATION.
The salary of the Mayor is $1,500.00 per year, plus $30.00 for each meeting of
the Council at which the Mayor presides and for any other meeting which the
Mayor attends on behalf of the City or at the direction of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
15.05   VOTING.
The Mayor is not a member of the Council and shall not vote as a member of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4)
CHAPTER 16
MAYOR PRO TEM
 
16.01 Vice President of Council 16.03 Voting Rights
16.02 Powers and Duties         16.04 Compensation
 
16.01   VICE PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
The Mayor shall appoint a member of the Council as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
serve as vice president of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
Except for the limitations otherwise provided herein, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
perform the duties of the Mayor in cases of absence or inability of the Mayor
to perform such duties. In the exercise of the duties of the office the Mayor
Pro Tem shall not have power to appoint, employ or discharge from employment,
officers or employees that the Mayor has the power to appoint, employ or
discharge without the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.03   VOTING RIGHTS.
The Mayor Pro Tem shall have the right to vote as a member of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.14[3])
16.04   COMPENSATION.
If the Mayor Pro Tem performs the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s
absence or disability for a continuous period of 15 days or more, the Mayor Pro
Tem may be paid for that period the compensation as determined by the Council,
based upon the Mayor Pro Tem’s performance of the Mayor’s duties and upon the
compensation of the Mayor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 17
CITY COUNCIL
 
17.01 Number and Term of Council 17.04 Council Meetings
17.02 Powers and Duties          17.05 Appointments
17.03 Exercise of Power          17.06 Compensation
 
17.01   NUMBER AND TERM OF COUNCIL.
The Council consists of five Council members elected at large for overlapping
terms of four years.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.4 and 376.2)
17.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The powers and duties of the Council include, but are not limited to the
following:
1.   General. All powers of the City are vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
2.   Wards. By ordinance, the Council may divide the City into wards based upon
population, change the boundaries of wards, eliminate wards or create new
wards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[7])
3.   Fiscal Authority. The Council shall apportion and appropriate all funds,
and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims, and order payment
thereof. It shall make all assessments for the cost of street improvements,
sidewalks, sewers and other work, improvement or repairs which may be specially
assessed.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1], 384.16, and 384.38 [1])
4.   Public Improvements. The Council shall make all orders for the
construction of any improvements, bridges or buildings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.2[1])
5.   Contracts. The Council shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts. No contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the City unless
approved by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 26.10)
6.   Employees. The Council shall authorize, by resolution, the number, duties,
term of office and compensation of employees or officers not otherwise provided
for by State law or the Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
7.   Setting Compensation for Elected Officers. By ordinance, the Council shall
prescribe the compensation of the Mayor, Council members, and other elected
City officers, but a change in the compensation of the Mayor does not become
effective during the term in which the change is adopted, and the Council shall
not adopt such an ordinance changing the compensation of any elected officer
during the months of November and December in the year of a regular City
election. A change in the compensation of Council members becomes effective for
all Council members at the beginning of the term of the Council members elected
at the election next following the change in compensation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
17.03   EXERCISE OF POWER.
The Council shall exercise a power only by the passage of a motion, a
resolution, an amendment or an ordinance in the following manner:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[1])
1.   Action by Council. Passage of an ordinance, amendment or resolution
requires a majority vote of all of the members of the Council. Passage of a
motion requires a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. A resolution must
be passed to spend public funds in excess of $100,000.00 on a public
improvement project, or to accept public improvements and facilities upon their
completion. Each Council member’s vote on a measure must be recorded. A measure
that fails to receive sufficient votes for passage shall be considered
defeated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.4)
2.   Overriding Mayor’s Veto. Within 30 days after the Mayor’s veto, the
Council may pass the measure again by a vote of not less than two-thirds of all
of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
3.   Measures Become Effective. Measures passed by the Council become effective
in one of the following ways:
   A.   An ordinance or amendment signed by the Mayor becomes effective when
the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a subsequent
effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1a])
   B.   A resolution signed by the Mayor becomes effective immediately upon
signing.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1b])
   C.   A motion becomes effective immediately upon passage of the motion by
the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[1c])
   D.   If the Mayor vetoes an ordinance, amendment or resolution and the
Council repasses the measure after the Mayor’s veto, a resolution becomes
effective immediately upon repassage, and an ordinance or amendment becomes a
law when the ordinance or a summary of the ordinance is published, unless a
subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[2])
   E.   If the Mayor takes no action on an ordinance, amendment or resolution,
a resolution becomes effective 14 days after the date of passage, and an
ordinance or amendment becomes law when the ordinance or a summary of the
ordinance is published, but not sooner than 14 days after the date of passage,
unless a subsequent effective date is provided within the ordinance or
amendment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.6[3])
“All of the members of the Council” refers to all of the seats of the Council
including a vacant seat and a seat where the member is absent, but does not
include a seat where the Council member declines to vote by reason of a
conflict of interest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.1[a])
17.04   COUNCIL MEETINGS.
Procedures for giving notice of meetings of the Council and other provisions
regarding the conduct of Council meetings are contained in Section
5.06 of this Code of Ordinances. Additional particulars relating to Council
meetings are the following:
1.   Regular Meetings. The time and place of the regular meetings of the
Council shall be fixed by resolution of the Council.
2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings shall be held upon call of the Mayor or
upon the request of a majority of the members of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
3.   Quorum. A majority of all Council members is a quorum.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[1])
4.   Rules of Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and maintain
records of its proceedings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[5])
5.   Compelling Attendance. Any three members of the Council can compel the
attendance of the absent members at any regular, adjourned or duly called
meeting, by serving a written notice upon the absent members to attend at once.
6.   Required Attendance. All Council members are required to attend at least
80 percent of all regular and special Council meetings in any given calendar
year. If this attendance requirement is not met, the Council member may be
asked to resign their position and be removed per Section
5.09.
17.05   APPOINTMENTS.
The Council shall appoint the following officials and prescribe their powers,
duties, compensation and term of office:
1.   City Administrator
2.   Planning and Zoning Commission
3.   Zoning Board of Adjustment
4.   Zoning Administrator
5.   Township Board of Cemetery Trustees (two)
17.06   COMPENSATION.
The salary of each Council member is $30.00 for each meeting of the Council
attended and for any other meeting whey they may be required to attend on
behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[8])
CHAPTER 18
CITY CLERK
 
18.01 Appointment and Compensation 18.08 Records
18.02 Powers and Duties: General   18.09 Attendance at Meetings
18.03 Publication of Minutes       18.10 Licenses and Permits
18.04 Recording Measures           18.11 Notification of Appointments
18.05 Other Publications           18.12 Elections
18.06 Authentication               18.13 City Seal
18.07 Certification
 
18.01   APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
The City Administrator is ex officio City Clerk and has the duties, powers and
functions prescribed in this chapter, by State law and other ordinances of the
City. The Council shall specify by resolution the compensation to be paid for
such services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3])
18.02   POWERS AND DUTIES: GENERAL.
The Clerk, or in the Clerk’s absence or inability to act, the Deputy Clerk has
the powers and duties as provided in this chapter, this Code of Ordinances, and
the law.
18.03   PUBLICATION OF MINUTES.
Within 15 days following a regular or special meeting, the Clerk shall cause
the minutes of the proceedings thereof to be published. Such publication shall
include a list of all claims allowed and a summary of all receipts and shall
show the gross amount of the claims.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[6])
18.04   RECORDING MEASURES.
The Clerk shall promptly record each measure considered by the Council and
record a statement with the measure, where applicable, indicating whether the
Mayor signed, vetoed or took no action on the measure, and whether the measure
was repassed after the Mayor’s veto.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[1 and 2])
18.05   OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
The Clerk shall cause to be published all ordinances, enactments, proceedings
and official notices requiring publication as follows:
1.   Time. If notice of an election, hearing, or other official action is
required by this Code of Ordinances or law, the notice must be published at
least once, not less than four nor more than 20 days before the date of the
election, hearing or other action, unless otherwise provided by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
2.   Manner of Publication. A publication required by this Code of Ordinances
or law must be in a newspaper published at least once weekly and having general
circulation in the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 362.3)
18.06   AUTHENTICATION.
The Clerk shall authenticate all measures except motions with the Clerk’s
signature, certifying the time and manner of publication when required.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[4])
18.07   CERTIFICATION.
The Clerk shall certify all measures establishing any zoning district, building
lines, or fire limits and a plat showing the district, lines, or limits to the
recorder of the County containing the affected parts of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.11)
18.08   RECORDS.
The Clerk shall maintain the specified City records in the following manner:
1.   Ordinances and Codes. Maintain copies of all effective City ordinances and
codes for public use.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 380.7[5])
2.   Custody. Have custody and be responsible for the safekeeping of all
writings or documents in which the City is a party in interest unless otherwise
specifically directed by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
3.   Maintenance. Maintain all City records and documents, or accurate
reproductions, for at least five years except that ordinances, resolutions,
Council proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating
to the issuance, cancellation, transfer, redemption or replacement of public
bonds or obligations shall be kept for at least 11 years following the final
maturity of the bonds or obligations. Ordinances, resolutions, Council
proceedings, records and documents, or accurate reproductions, relating to real
property transactions shall be maintained permanently.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[3 and 5])
4.   Provide Copy. Furnish upon request to any municipal officer a copy of any
record, paper or public document under the Clerk’s control when it may be
necessary to such officer in the discharge of such officer’s duty; furnish a
copy to any citizen when requested upon payment of the fee set by Council
resolution; under the direction of the Mayor or other authorized officer, affix
the seal of the City to those public documents or instruments which by
ordinance and Code of Ordinances are required to be attested by the affixing of
the seal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4 and 5] and 380.7[5])
5.   Filing of Communications. Keep and file all communications and petitions
directed to the Council or to the City generally. The Clerk shall endorse
thereon the action of the Council taken upon matters considered in such
communications and petitions.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.09   ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
The Clerk shall attend all regular and special Council meetings and, at the
direction of the Council, the Clerk shall attend meetings of committees,
boards, and such commissions. The Clerk shall record and preserve a correct
record of the proceedings of such meetings.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.10   LICENSES AND PERMITS.
The Clerk shall issue or revoke licenses and permits when authorized by this
Code of Ordinances, and keep a record of licenses and permits issued which
shall show date of issuance, license or permit number, official receipt number,
name of person to whom issued, term of license or permit and purpose for which
issued.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.11   NOTIFICATION OF APPOINTMENTS.
The Clerk shall inform all persons appointed by the Mayor or Council to offices
in the City government of their positions and the time at which they shall
assume the duties of their offices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
18.12   ELECTIONS.
The Clerk shall perform the following duties relating to elections in
accordance with Chapter 376 of the Code of Iowa:
18.13   CITY SEAL.
The City seal is in the custody of the Clerk and shall be attached by the Clerk
to all transcripts, orders and certificates which it may be necessary or proper
to authenticate. The City seal is circular in form, in the center of which are
the words “HOLSTEIN, IOWA,” and around the margin of which are the words “CITY
SEAL – INCORPORATED 1882.”
CHAPTER 19
CITY TREASURER
 
19.01 Appointment  19.03 Duties of Treasurer
19.02 Compensation
 
19.01   APPOINTMENT.
The Mayor shall appoint, subject to Council approval, a City Treasurer to serve
for a term of two years.
19.02   COMPENSATION.
The Treasurer is paid such compensation as specified by resolution of the
Council.
19.03   DUTIES OF TREASURER.
The duties of the Treasurer are as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Custody of Funds. Be responsible for the safe custody of all funds of the
City in the manner provided by law, and Council direction.
2.   Record of Fund. Keep the record of each fund separate.
3.   Record Receipts. Keep an accurate record of all money or securities
received by the Treasurer on behalf of the City and specify the date, from
whom, and for what purpose received.
4.   Record Disbursements. Keep an accurate account of all disbursements, money
or property, specifying date, to whom, and from what fund paid.
5.   Special Assessments. Keep a separate account of all money received by the
Treasurer from special assessments.
6.   Deposit Funds. Upon receipt of moneys to be held in the Treasurer’s
custody and belonging to the City, deposit the same in depositories selected by
the Council.
7.   Reconciliation. Reconcile depository statements with the Treasurer’s books
and certify monthly to the Council the balance of cash and investments of each
fund and amounts received and disbursed.
8.   Debt Service. Keep a register of all bonds outstanding and record all
payments of interest and principal.
9.   Other Duties. Perform such other duties as specified by the Council by
resolution or ordinance.
10.   Reconciliation with Clerk. Reconcile the Treasurer’s books with the
Clerk’s every month.
CHAPTER 20
CITY ATTORNEY
20.01   SELECTION.
The Council shall select a City Attorney on a case-by-case basis, as the need
arises.
CHAPTER 21
CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
 
21.01 Appointment and Term          21.04 Duties
21.02 Compensation                  21.05 Ex-Officio City Clerk
21.03 Administrative Responsibility
 
21.01   APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a City Administrator to serve at the
pleasure of the Council.
21.02   COMPENSATION.
The City Administrator shall receive such annual salary as the Council shall
from time to time determine by resolution.
21.03   ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITY.
The City Administrator is directly responsible to the Council for the
administration of municipal affairs as directed by that body. All City
departmental administration requiring the attention of the Council shall be
brought before the Council by the City Administrator. The City Administrator
may serve as the head of one or more departments of the City government.
21.04   DUTIES.
The duties of the City Administrator are as follows:
1.   To attend all meeting of the Council unless excused by the Mayor.
2.   To recommend to the Council such measures as may be necessary or expedient
for the good government and welfare of the City.
3.   To have the general supervision and direction of the administration of the
City government.
4.   To supervise and direct the official conduct of all officers, departments
and employees of the City and to effectuate their responsibility; and, subject
to the exception set out herein, have the power and authority to employ such
assistants and other employees of the City for which the Council has approved
the position generally, and to discharge said assistants or employees found
incompetent or derelict in their duties.
5.   To supervise the performance of all contracts for work to be done for the
City, supervise all purchases of materials and supplies and see that such
material and supplies are received and are of the quality and character called
for by the contract.
6.   To supervise the construction, improvement, repair, maintenance and
management of all City property, capital improvements and undertakings of the
City, including the making and preservation of all surveys, maps, plans,
drawings, specifications and estimates for capital improvements.
7.   To investigate the affairs and conduct of any department, agency, officer
or employee under the supervision of the City Administrator.
8.   To provide for and cause records to be kept of the issuance and revocation
of licenses and permits authorized by City law.
9.   To keep the Council fully advised of the financial and other conditions of
the City and of its future needs.
10.   To conduct the business affairs of the City and cause accurate records to
be kept by modern and efficient accounting methods.
11.   To present to the Council monthly written itemized reports.
12.   To have the capability to work with department heads to apply for grants.
13.   To perform other duties at the Council’s direction.
21.05   EX-OFFICIO CITY CLERK.
The City Administrator is ex-officio City Clerk and also performs the duties of
Clerk as identified in
Chapter 18 of this Code of Ordinances and by the Code of Iowa, unless those
duties have been delegated by the City Administrator.
CHAPTER 22
LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
 
22.01 Public Library                   22.07 Nonresident Use
22.02 Library Trustees                 22.08 Expenditures
22.03 Qualifications of Trustees       22.09 Annual Report
22.04 Organization of the Board        22.10 Injury to Books or Property
22.05 Powers and Duties                22.11 Theft
22.06 Contracting with Other Libraries 22.12 Notice Posted
 
22.01   PUBLIC LIBRARY.
The public library for the City is known as the Stubbs Memorial Library. It is
referred to in this chapter as the Library.
22.02   LIBRARY TRUSTEES.
The Board of Trustees of the Library, hereinafter referred to as the Board,
consists of four resident members and one nonresident member. All resident
members are to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council. The
nonresident member is to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
County Board of Supervisors and City Council.
22.03   QUALIFICATIONS OF TRUSTEES.
All resident members of the Board shall be bona fide citizens and residents of
the City. The nonresident member of the Board shall be a bona fide citizen and
resident of the unincorporated County. Members shall be over the age of 18
years.
22.04   ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD.
The organization of the Board shall be as follows:
1.   Term of Office. All appointments to the Board shall be for six years,
except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on July 1. Appointments
shall be made every two years of one-third the total number or as near as
possible, to stagger the terms.
2.   Vacancies. The position of any resident Trustee shall be vacated if such
member moves permanently from the City. The position of a nonresident Trustee
shall be vacated if such member moves permanently from the County or into the
City. The position of any Trustee shall be deemed vacated if such member is
absent from six (6) consecutive regular meetings of the Board, except in the
case of sickness or temporary absence from the City or County. Vacancies in the
Board shall be filled in the same manner as an original appointment except that
the new Trustee shall fill out the unexpired term for which the appointment is
made.
3.   Compensation. Trustees shall receive no compensation for their services.
22.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Board shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Officers. To meet and elect from its members a President, a Secretary, and
such other officers as it deems necessary.
2.   Physical Plant. To have charge, control and supervision of the Library,
its appurtenances, fixtures and rooms containing the same.
3.   Charge of Affairs. To direct and control all affairs of the Library.
4.   Hiring of Personnel. To employ a Library Director, and authorize the
Library Director to employ such assistants and employees as may be necessary
for the proper management of the Library, and fix their compensation; provided,
however, that prior to such employment, the compensation of the Library
Director, assistants, and employees shall have been fixed and approved by a
majority of the members of the Board voting in favor thereof.
5.   Removal of Personnel. To remove the Library Director, by a two-thirds vote
of the Board, and provide procedures for the removal of the assistants or
employees for misdemeanor, incompetence or inattention to duty, subject
however, to the provisions of Chapter 35C of the Code of Iowa.
6.   Purchases. To select, or authorize the Library Director to select, and
make purchases of books, pamphlets, magazines, periodicals, papers, maps,
journals, other Library materials, furniture, fixtures, stationery and supplies
for the Library within budgetary limits set by the Board.
7.   Use by Nonresidents. To authorize the use of the Library by nonresidents
and to fix charges therefore unless a contract for free service exists.
8.   Rules and Regulations. To make and adopt, amend, modify or repeal rules
and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code of Ordinances and the law, for
the care, use, government and management of the Library and the business of the
Board, fixing and enforcing penalties for violations.
9.   Expenditures. To have exclusive control of the expenditure of all funds
allocated for Library purposes by the Council, and of all moneys available by
gift or otherwise for the erection of Library buildings, and of all other
moneys belonging to the Library including fines and rentals collected under the
rules of the Board.
10.   Gifts. To accept gifts of real property, personal property, or mixed
property, and devises and bequests, including trust funds; to take the title to
said property in the name of the Library; to execute deeds and bills of sale
for the conveyance of said property; and to expend the funds received by them
from such gifts, for the improvement of the Library.
11.   Enforce the Performance of Conditions on Gifts. To enforce the
performance of conditions on gifts, donations, devises and bequests accepted by
the City by action against the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 661)
12.   Record of Proceedings. To keep a record of all proceedings. A copy of all
such records shall be given to the City Council monthly.
13.   County Historical Association. To have authority to make agreements with
the local County historical association where such exists, and to set apart the
necessary room and to care for such articles as may come into the possession of
the association. The Trustees are further authorized to purchase necessary
receptacles and materials for the preservation and protection of such articles
as are in their judgment of a historical and educational nature and pay for the
same out of funds allocated for Library purposes.
22.06   CONTRACTING WITH OTHER LIBRARIES.
The Board has power to contract with other libraries in accordance with the
following:
1.   Contracting. The Board may contract with any other Boards of Trustees of
free public libraries, with any other city, school, corporation, private or
semiprivate organization, institution of higher learning, township, or County,
or with the Trustees of any County library district for the use of the Library
by their respective residents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.5 and Ch. 28E)
2.   Termination. Such a contract may be terminated at any time by mutual
consent of the contracting parties. It also may be terminated by a majority
vote of the electors represented by either of the contracting parties. Such a
termination proposition shall be submitted to the electors by the governing
body of a contracting party on a written petition of not less than five percent
in number of the electors who voted for governor in the territory of the
contracting party at the last general election. The petition must be presented
to the governing body not less than 40 days before the election. The
proposition may be submitted at any election provided by law that is held in
the territory of the party seeking to terminate the contract.
22.07   NONRESIDENT USE.
The Board may authorize the use of the Library by persons not residents of the
City or County in any one or more of the following ways:
1.   Lending. By lending the books or other materials of the Library to
nonresidents on the same terms and conditions as to residents of the City, or
County, or upon payment of a special nonresident Library fee.
2.   Depository. By establishing depositories of Library books or other
materials to be loaned to nonresidents.
3.   Bookmobiles. By establishing bookmobiles or a traveling library so that
books or other Library materials may be loaned to nonresidents.
4.   Branch Library. By establishing branch libraries for lending books or
other Library materials to nonresidents.
22.08   EXPENDITURES.
All money appropriated by the Council for the operation and maintenance of the
Library shall be set aside in an account for the Library. Expenditures shall be
paid for only on orders of the Board, signed by its President and Secretary.
The check-writing officer is the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.20 and 392.5)
22.09   ANNUAL REPORT.
The Board shall make a report to the Council immediately after the close of the
fiscal year. This report shall contain statements as to the condition of the
Library, the number of books added, the number circulated, the amount of fines
collected, and the amount of money expended in the maintenance of the Library
during the year, together with such further information as may be required by
the Council.
22.10   INJURY TO BOOKS OR PROPERTY.
It is unlawful for a person willfully, maliciously or wantonly to tear, deface,
mutilate, injure or destroy, in whole or in part, any newspaper, periodical,
book, map, pamphlet, chart, picture or other property belonging to the Library
or reading room.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
22.11   THEFT.
No person shall take possession or control of property of the Library with the
intent to deprive the Library thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
22.12   NOTICE POSTED.
There shall be posted in clear public view within the Library notices informing
the public of the following:
1.   Failure To Return. Failure to return Library materials for two months or
more after the date the person agreed to return the Library materials, or
failure to return Library equipment for one month or more after the date the
person agreed to return the Library equipment, is evidence of intent to deprive
the owner, provided a reasonable attempt, including the mailing by restricted
certified mail of notice that such material or equipment is overdue and
criminal actions will be taken, has been made to reclaim the materials or
equipment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.5)
2.   Detention and Search. Persons concealing Library materials may be detained
and searched pursuant to law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 808.12)
CHAPTER 23
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
 
23.01 Planning and Zoning Commission 23.04 Compensation
23.02 Term of Office                 23.05 Powers and Duties
23.03 Vacancies
 
23.01   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
The City Planning and Zoning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the
Commission, consists of seven members appointed by the Council. The Commission
members shall be residents of the City and shall not hold any elective office
in the City government.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6 and 392.1)
23.02   TERM OF OFFICE.
The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be four years. The
terms of not more than one-third of the members will expire in any one year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.03   VACANCIES.
If any vacancy exists on the Commission caused by resignation, or otherwise, a
successor for the residue of the term shall be appointed in the same manner as
the original appointee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.04   COMPENSATION.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except their
actual expenses, which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
23.05   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Commission shall have and exercise the following powers and duties:
1.   Selection of Officers. The Commission shall choose annually at its first
regular meeting one of its members to act as Chairperson and another as Vice
Chairperson, who shall perform all the duties of the Chairperson during the
Chairperson’s absence or disability.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
2.   Adopt Rules and Regulations. The Commission shall adopt such rules and
regulations governing its organization and procedure as it may deem necessary.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
3.   Zoning. The Commission shall have and exercise all the powers and duties
and privileges in establishing the City zoning regulations and other related
matters and may from time to time recommend to the Council amendments,
supplements, changes or modifications, all as provided by Chapter 414 of the
Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 414.6)
4.   Recommendations on Improvements. The design and proposed location of
public improvements shall be submitted to the Commission for its
recommendations prior to any actions being taken by the City for the
construction or placement of such improvements. Such requirements and
recommendations shall not act as a stay upon the action for any such
improvement if the Commission, after 30 days written notice requesting such
recommendations, has failed to file the same.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
5.   Review and Comment on Plats. All plans, plats, or re-plats of subdivision
or re-subdivisions of land embraced in the City or adjacent thereto, laid out
in lots or plats with the streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to the public in the City, shall first be submitted to
the Commission and its recommendations obtained before approval by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
6.   Fiscal Responsibilities. The Commission shall have full, complete and
exclusive authority to expend, for and on behalf of the City, all sums of money
appropriated to it, and to use and expend all gifts, donations or payments
whatsoever which are received by the City for City planning and zoning
purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
7.   Limitation on Entering Contracts. The Commission shall have no power to
contract debts beyond the amount of its original or amended appropriation as
approved by the Council for the present year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
8.   Annual Report. The Commission shall each year make a report to the Mayor
and Council of its proceedings, with a full statement of its receipts,
disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding fiscal year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
CHAPTER 24
CENTENNIAL COMMISSION.
 
24.01 Centennial Commission Created 24.04 Powers
24.02 Organization                  24.05 Reports
24.03 Duties
 
24.01   CENTENNIAL COMMISSION CREATED.
The Centennial Commission which was previously created by the City Council
shall continue in existence indefinitely until and/or unless it is terminated
by the Council.
24.02   ORGANIZATION.
Said Commission shall consist of seven members, to be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to the approval of the Council. The appointments shall be for three
years, with the terms to be staggered. Members shall serve without
compensation, but may receive their actual expenses. Vacancies shall be filled
in the same manner as original appointments. Two of the Commission members
shall also be either members of the City Council or representatives thereof.
Not less than two or more than five of the Commission members shall reside
outside of the corporate limits of the Incorporated City of Holstein, Iowa. The
Commission shall elect its own Chairperson, and such other officers as it may
deem expedient. The Commission shall meet at least annually and may organize,
establish, appoint, and elect such sub-committees as it may deem necessary to
carry out its duties and purposes.
24.03   DUTIES.
The Commission shall deposit and otherwise invest the net proceeds from the
Holstein Centennial celebration in federally insured accounts; the Commission
shall determine what expenditures shall be made from such funds as provided for
in Section
24.04 of this chapter.
24.04   POWERS.
The Commission shall have the power to spend or otherwise disburse principal
and/or interest for any lawful purposes which are for the benefit of the
incorporated City of Holstein and/or the surrounding community; such
expenditures and/or disbursements shall be determined by the Commission;
provided, however, the Commission shall not make any expenditure which would
result in the acquisition or creation of additional property for which the City
would have the responsibility and/or liability for the maintenance thereof,
without the prior approval of the City Council. The Commission shall be
entitled to spend any or all of the principal and/or interest as the Commission
deems appropriate. The Commission shall have no power to pledge the credit of
the City or contract on behalf of the City. The Commission may adopt such rules
and regulations as may be expedient to carry out its purpose.
24.05   REPORTS.
The Commission shall make written reports to the Council as the Commission may,
from time to time, deem expedient, and the Commission shall make such written
reports as the Council may request. It shall report its revenues and
expenditures to the Council on request.
CHAPTER 25
HOUSING COMMISSION.
 
25.01 Purpose    25.03 Organization of the Commission
25.02 Commission 25.04 Duties
 
25.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide and establish a City Housing
Commission and to specify the Commission’s powers and duties.
25.02   COMMISSION.
The Commission shall consist of three members. All members are to be appointed
by the Mayor with the approval of the Council. Each member shall be a resident
of the City.
25.03   ORGANIZATION OF THE COMMISSION.
1.   Term of Office. All appointees to the Commission shall be for three years
except to fill vacancies. Each term shall commence on January 1. An appointment
shall be made every year of one-third the total number as near as possible to
stagger the terms.
2.   Vacancies. Vacancies in the Commission shall be filled by appointment by
the Mayor with the approval of the Council, and the new commissioner shall fill
out the unexpired term for which he or she is appointed.
3.   Compensation. Commissioners shall receive no compensation for their
services.
25.04   DUTIES.
The Commission shall be that of a liaison between various agencies of the State
and federal governments and the Council. They shall furnish to the Council with
information regarding, but not limited to, financing of housing, housing
regulations and laws and governmental procedures relating to housing. The
Commission shall file a report of the activities of the Commission with the
Council no less than twice each year, on the first Council meeting in January
and the first Council meeting in July and at such other times as the Council
may request or at such time as is determined to be of importance by the
Commission.
CHAPTER 26
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION.
 
26.01 Parks and Recreation Commission 26.04 Officers
Duties
26.02 Meetings                        26.05 Conduct of Commission Business
26.03 Membership
 
26.01   PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION DUTIES.
The Holstein Park and Recreation Commission shall serve in an advisory role to
the City Council relative to the needs of the Park and Recreation Department.
The Commission shall recommend and review policies, rules, regulations,
ordinances, fees, and budgets in relation to the department; shall present
reports to the City Council of its activities, accomplishments, and
recommendations from time to time as it deems advisable, or upon Council
request; and shall be actively involved in Park and Recreation Center and
Holstein Aquatic Facility operations and the development of long-range plans.
26.02   MEETINGS.
1.   Regular Meetings. Meetings will be held at the discretion of the Director
and Board Members, but at least once every three months (quarterly).
2.   Special Meetings. Special meetings of the members may be called by the
Chairperson. Upon the request of two members of the Commission, the Chairperson
shall call a special meeting.
3.   Place of Meetings. Regular meetings will be held at the Lohff-Schumann
Memorial Community Center.
4.   Notice of Meetings. Notice of all regular meetings shall be distributed to
all Commission members. All notice requirements and meetings shall conform to
the provisions of the Iowa Open Meetings Law.
5.   Quorum. A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a
quorum at any meeting. At least three votes shall be cast in favor of a motion
or election at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be decisive of
any motion or election.
6.   Proxies. There shall be no vote by proxy.
7.   Public Discussion. Time shall be made available during all regular
meetings for open public discussion.
26.03   MEMBERSHIP.
The Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the Mayor with
Council approval. Members shall be dues-paying members of the Lohff-Schumann
Memorial Community Center. All members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation, but shall be entitled to the necessary expenses including
reasonable travel expenses incurred in the discharge of their duties. 
1.   Term of Office. Terms of membership shall be five years commencing on
January 1, with credit given for time served on previous Recreation Commission
“Board of Directors” in order to ensure staggering of terms.
2.   Absences. Three consecutive unexplained absences of a Commission member
may result in the Commission’s recommendation to the Mayor to remove the member
from the Commission, and to appoint a new member.
3.   Orientation for New Members. Prior to the first regular meeting following
their appointment, new members shall be provided with copies of the pertinent
portions of this Code of Ordinances, the Holstein Park and Recreation Bylaws,
and other information useful to carrying out their duties.
4.   Resignation and Vacancies. If any member is no longer willing or able to
serve on the Commission, the member shall send a letter of resignation to the
Mayor. Vacancies occurring on the Commission, other than by expiration of term
of office, shall be filled only for the unexpired portion of the term.
26.04   OFFICERS.
1.   Number. The officers of the Commission shall be a Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson, and each shall be elected by the members of the Commission.
2.   Election and Term of Office. The officers of the Commission shall be
elected annually, with terms of office beginning at the January meeting each
year.
3.   Vacancies. A vacancy in either office shall be filled by a member elected
for the unexpired portion of the term.
4.   Chairperson. The Chairperson shall, when present, preside at all meetings
of the members, appoint committees, call special meetings, and in general,
perform all duties of the Chairperson, together with such other duties as may
be prescribed by members from time to time.
5.   Vice Chairperson. In the absence of the Chairperson, or in the event of
the Chairperson’s death, inability, or refusal to act, the Vice Chairperson
shall perform the duties of the Chairperson. When so acting, the Vice
Chairperson shall have all the powers and be subject to all the restrictions as
those resting with the Chairperson.
26.05   CONDUCT OF COMMISSION BUSINESS.
1.   Agenda. The Chairperson or a designated representative, together with
staff assistance, shall prepare an agenda for all regular Commission meetings.
Agendas are to be sent to Commission members and be available the Friday prior
to the regular meetings.
2.   Minutes. Minutes of all regular and special meetings are to be prepared
and distributed to Commission members and be available upon request the Friday
prior to the regular meetings.
3.   Committees. The committees of the Commission, including composition,
duties, and terms, shall be designated by the Chairperson.
4.   Policies and Programs. The Commission shall periodically review the
department’s budget submittals, and make recommendations to the City Council as
they deem appropriate. Such recommendations need not pertain to detailed line
items, but rather priorities, new programs, direction changes, and other
significant items or concerns.
5.   Budgets. The Commission shall have the opportunity to annually review the
department’s budget submittals, and make recommendations to the City Council as
they deem appropriate. Such recommendations need not pertain to detailed line
items, but rather priorities, new programs, direction changes, and other
significant items or concerns.
6.   Fees and Charges. The Commission shall annually review the department’s
fee schedule, particularly those fees relating to recreation programs and
facilities, and submit recommendations to the City Council for approval.
7.   Referrals from Council. From time to time letters, requests for
information, requests for recommendation, and other matters are referred to the
Commission by the City Council. The Commission shall initiate the consideration
of such items at the next regular meeting following receipt of the referral,
and shall notify Council of its disposition.
8.   Recommendations to Council. Commission recommendations to the Council
shall be transmitted separately. Recommendations should be accompanied by the
appropriate staff reports, and information pertaining to alternatives which
were considered and the rationale for the recommendation should be included
when appropriate.
9.   Attendance at Council Meetings. The Commission Chairperson or designated
representatives are to be in attendance at City Council meetings, including
informal sessions, at which matters pertaining to the Commission’s
responsibilities are to be discussed or actions taken, upon request of the
Council. A representative from the Commission will give an update of the
Commission activities to the Council minimally on a quarterly basis. The
Commission Chairperson is to receive Council agenda prior to each Council
meeting and is to be otherwise notified of meetings involving Commission
business.
10.   Powers. The Commission shall not extend to the direction, supervision,
employment, or termination of employees of the Park and Recreation Department.
No supervisory power of the Commission is created or should be implied.
CHAPTER 30
CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT
30.01   CONTRACT LAW ENFORCEMENT.
The Council may contract with the County Sheriff or any other qualified lawful
entity to provide law enforcement services within the City, and the Sheriff or
such other entity shall have and exercise the powers and duties as provided in
said contract and as required by law or ordinance.
(Code of Iowa, 28E.30)
CHAPTER 35
FIRE DEPARTMENT
 
35.01 Establishment and Purpose 35.08 Constitution
35.02 Organization              35.09 Accidental Injury Insurance
35.03 Training                  35.10 Liability Insurance
35.04 Compensation              35.11 Calls Outside Fire District
35.05 Election of Officers      35.12 Mutual Aid
35.06 Duties of Fire Chief      35.13 Authority to Cite Violations
35.07 Obedience to Fire Chief   35.14 Emergency Ambulance and Rescue Service
 
35.01   ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
A volunteer fire department is hereby established to prevent and extinguish
fires and to protect lives and property against fires, to promote fire
prevention and fire safety, and to answer all emergency calls for which there
is no other established agency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.16)
35.02   ORGANIZATION.
The department consists of the Fire Chief and such other officers and personnel
as may be authorized by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.03   TRAINING.
All members of the department shall meet the minimum training standards
established by the State Fire Marshal and attend and actively participate in
regular or special training drills or programs as directed by the Fire Chief.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100B.2[4])
35.04   COMPENSATION.
Members of the department shall be designated by rank and receive such
compensation as shall be determined by resolution of the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
35.05   ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
The department shall elect a Fire Chief and such other officers as its
constitution and bylaws may provide, but the election of the Fire Chief shall
be subject to the approval of the Council. In case of absence of the Fire
Chief, the officer next in rank shall be in charge and have and exercise all
the powers of Fire Chief.
35.06   DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
The Fire Chief shall perform all duties required of the Fire Chief by law or
ordinance, including (but not limited to) the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Enforce Laws. Enforce ordinances and laws regulating fire prevention and
the investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of fires.
2.   Technical Assistance. Upon request, give advice concerning private fire
alarm systems, fire extinguishing equipment, fire escapes and exits and
development of fire emergency plans.
3.   Authority at Fires. When in charge of a fire scene, direct an operation as
necessary to extinguish or control a fire, perform a rescue operation,
investigate the existence of a suspected or reported fire, gas leak, or other
hazardous condition, or take any other action deemed necessary in the
reasonable performance of the department’s duties.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
4.   Control of Scenes. Prohibit an individual, vehicle or vessel from
approaching a fire scene and remove from the scene any object, vehicle, vessel
or individual that may impede or interfere with the operation of the fire
department.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.2)
5.   Authority to Barricade. When in charge of a fire scene, place or erect
ropes, guards, barricades or other obstructions across a street, alley, right-
of-way, or private property near the location of the fire or emergency so as to
prevent accidents or interference with the firefighting efforts of the fire
department, to control the scene until any required investigation is complete,
or to preserve evidence related to the fire or other emergency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.3)
6.   Command. Be charged with the duty of maintaining the efficiency,
discipline and control of the fire department. The members of the fire
department shall, at all times, be subject to the direction of the Fire Chief.
7.   Property. Exercise and have full control over the disposition of all fire
apparatus, tools, equipment and other property used by or belonging to the Fire
Department.
8.   Notification. Whenever death, serious bodily injury, or property damage in
excess of $200,000 has occurred as a result of a fire, or if arson is
suspected, notify the State Fire Marshal’s Division immediately. For all other
fires causing an estimated damage of $50.00 or more or emergency responses by
the Fire Department, file a report with the Fire Marshal’s Division within 10
days following the end of the month. The report shall indicate all fire
incidents occurring and state the name of the owners and occupants of the
property at the time of the fire, the value of the property, the estimated
total loss to the property, origin of the fire as determined by investigation,
and other facts, statistics, and circumstances concerning the fire incidents.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.2 and 100.3)
9.   Right of Entry. Have the right, during reasonable hours, to enter any
building or premises within the Fire Chief’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
making such investigation or inspection which under law or ordinance may be
necessary to be made and is reasonably necessary to protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.12)
10.   Recommendation. Make such recommendations to owners, occupants,
caretakers or managers of buildings necessary to eliminate fire hazards.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.13)
11.   Assist State Fire Marshal. At the request of the State Fire Marshal, and
as provided by law, aid said marshal in the performance of duties by
investigating, preventing and reporting data pertaining to fires.
12.   Records. Cause to be kept records of the fire department personnel,
firefighting equipment, depreciation of all equipment and apparatus, the number
of responses to alarms, their cause and location, and an analysis of losses by
value, type and location of buildings.
13.   Reports. Compile and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual report of
the status and activities of the department as well as such other reports as
may be requested by the Mayor or Council.
35.07   OBEDIENCE TO FIRE CHIEF.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the Fire Chief.
35.08   CONSTITUTION.
The department shall adopt a constitution and bylaws as they deem calculated to
accomplish the object contemplated, and such constitution and bylaws and any
change or amendment to such constitution and bylaws before being effective,
must be approved by the Council.
35.09   ACCIDENTAL INJURY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure the City against liability for worker’s
compensation and against statutory liability for the costs of hospitalization,
nursing, and medical attention for volunteer firefighters injured in the
performance of their duties as firefighters whether within or outside the
corporate limits of the City. All volunteer firefighters shall be covered by
the contract.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 85.2, 85.61, and Sec. 410.18)
35.10   LIABILITY INSURANCE.
The Council shall contract to insure against liability of the City or members
of the department for injuries, death or property damage arising out of and
resulting from the performance of departmental duties within or outside the
corporate limits of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 670.2 and 517A.1)
35.11   CALLS OUTSIDE FIRE DISTRICT.
The department shall answer calls to fires and other emergencies outside the
Fire District if the Fire Chief determines that such emergency exists and that
such action will not endanger persons and property within the Fire District.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 [2 and 3])
35.12   MUTUAL AID.
Subject to approval by resolution of the Council, the department may enter into
mutual aid agreements with other legally constituted fire departments. Copies
of any such agreements shall be filed with the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 [2 and 3])
35.13   AUTHORITY TO CITE VIOLATIONS.
Fire officials acting under the authority of Chapter 100 of the Code of Iowa
may issue citations in accordance to Chapter 805 of the Code of Iowa, for
violations of State and/or local fire safety regulations.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 100.41)
35.14   EMERGENCY AMBULANCE AND RESCUE SERVICE.
The department is authorized to provide emergency ambulance and rescue
services, and the accidental injury and liability insurance provided for herein
shall include such operation.
CHAPTER 36
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILLS
 
36.01 Purpose                     36.05 Notifications
36.02 Definitions                 36.06 Police Authority
36.03 Cleanup Required            36.07 Liability
36.04 Liability for Cleanup Costs
 
36.01   PURPOSE.
In order to reduce the danger to the public health, safety and welfare from the
leaks and spills of hazardous substances, these regulations are promulgated to
establish responsibility for the treatment, removal and cleanup of hazardous
substance spills within the City limits.
36.02   DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Cleanup” means actions necessary to contain, collect, control, identify,
analyze, clean up, treat, disperse, remove or dispose of a hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[1])
2.   “Hazardous condition” means any situation involving the actual, imminent
or probable spillage, leakage, or release of a hazardous substance onto the
land, into a water of the State or into the atmosphere which creates an
immediate or potential danger to the public health or safety or to the
environment.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[4])
3.   “Hazardous substance” means any substance or mixture of substances that
presents a danger to the public health or safety and includes, but is not
limited to, a substance that is toxic, corrosive, or flammable, or that is an
irritant or that generates pressure through decomposition, heat, or other
means. “Hazardous substance” may include any hazardous waste identified or
listed by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or any toxic pollutant listed under
Section 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1,
1977, or any hazardous substance designated under Section 311 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act as amended to January 1, 1977, or any hazardous
material designated by the Secretary of Transportation under the Hazardous
Materials Transportation Act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[5])
4.   “Responsible person” means a person who at any time produces, handles,
stores, uses, transports, refines, or disposes of a hazardous substance, the
release of which creates a hazardous condition, including bailees, carriers,
and any other person in control of a hazardous substance when a hazardous
condition occurs, whether the person owns the hazardous substance or is
operating under a lease, contract, or other agreement with the legal owner of
the hazardous substance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.381[7])
36.03   CLEANUP REQUIRED.
Whenever a hazardous condition is created by the deposit, injection, dumping,
spilling, leaking or placing of a hazardous substance, so that the hazardous
substance or a constituent of the hazardous substance may enter the environment
or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including ground
waters, the responsible person shall cause the condition to be remedied by a
cleanup, as defined in the preceding section, as rapidly as feasible to an
acceptable, safe condition. The costs of cleanup shall be borne by the
responsible person. If the responsible person does not cause the cleanup to
begin in a reasonable time in relation to the hazard and circumstances of the
incident, the City may, by an authorized officer, give reasonable notice, based
on the character of the hazardous condition, said notice setting a deadline for
accomplishing the cleanup and stating that the City will proceed to procure
cleanup services and bill the responsible person for all costs associated with
the cleanup if the cleanup is not accomplished within the deadline. In the
event that it is determined that immediate cleanup is necessary as a result of
the present danger to the public health, safety and welfare, then no notice
shall be required and the City may proceed to procure the cleanup and bill the
responsible person for all costs associated with the cleanup. If the bill for
those services is not paid within 30 days, the City Attorney shall proceed to
obtain payment by all legal means. If the cost of the cleanup is beyond the
capacity of the City to finance it, the authorized officer shall report to the
Council and immediately seek any State or federal funds available for said
cleanup.
36.04   LIABILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS.
The responsible person shall be strictly liable to the City for all of the
following:
1.   The reasonable cleanup costs incurred by the City or the agents of the
City as a result of the failure of the responsible person to clean up a
hazardous substance involved in a hazardous condition.
2.   The reasonable costs incurred by the City or the agents of the City to
evacuate people from the area threatened by a hazardous condition caused by the
person.
3.   The reasonable damages to the City for the injury to, destruction of, or
loss of City property, including parks and roads, resulting from a hazardous
condition caused by that person, including the costs of assessing the injury,
destruction or loss.
4.   The excessive and extraordinary cost incurred by the City or the agents of
the City in responding at and to the scene of a hazardous condition caused by
that person.
36.05   NOTIFICATIONS.
1.   A person manufacturing, storing, handling, transporting, or disposing of a
hazardous substance shall notify the State Department of Natural Resources and
the County Sheriff of the occurrence of a hazardous condition as soon as
possible but not later than six hours after the onset of the hazardous
condition or discovery of the hazardous condition. The County Sheriff shall
immediately notify the Department of Natural Resources.
2.   Any other person who discovers a hazardous condition shall notify the
County Sheriff, who shall then notify the Department of Natural Resources.
36.06   POLICE AUTHORITY.
If the circumstances reasonably so require, the law enforcement officer or an
authorized representative may:
1.   Evacuate persons from their homes to areas away from the site of a
hazardous condition, and
2.   Establish perimeters or other boundaries at or near the site of a
hazardous condition and limit access to cleanup personnel.
No person shall disobey an order of any law enforcement officer issued under
this section.
36.07   LIABILITY.
The City shall not be liable to any person for claims of damages, injuries, or
losses resulting from any hazardous condition, unless the City is the
responsible person as defined in Section
36.02(4).
CHAPTER 40
PUBLIC PEACE.
 
40.01 Assault    40.03 Disorderly Conduct
40.02 Harassment 40.04 Failure to Disperse
 
40.01   ASSAULT.
No person shall, without justification, commit any of the following:
1.   Pain or Injury. Any act which is intended to cause pain or injury to, or
which is intended to result in physical contact which will be insulting or
offensive to another, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1 [1])
2.   Threat of Pain or Injury. Any act which is intended to place another in
fear of immediate physical contact which will be painful, injurious, insulting,
or offensive, coupled with the apparent ability to execute the act.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1 [2])
An act described in Subsections 1 and 2 shall not be an assault under the
following circumstances: (i) if the person doing any of the enumerated acts,
and such other person, are voluntary participants in a sport, social or other
activity, not in itself criminal, and such act is a reasonably foreseeable
incident of such sport or activity, and does not create an unreasonable risk of
serious injury or breach of the peace; (ii) if the person doing any of the
enumerated acts is employed by a school district or accredited nonpublic
school, or is an area education agency staff member who provides services to a
school or school district, and intervenes in a fight or physical struggle or
other disruptive situation that takes place in the presence of the employee or
staff member performing employment duties in a school building, on school
grounds, or at an official school function, regardless of the location, whether
the fight or physical struggle or other disruptive situation is between
students or other individuals, if the degree and the force of the intervention
is reasonably necessary to restore order and to protect the safety of those
assembled.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.1)
40.02   HARASSMENT.
No person shall commit harassment.
1.   A person commits harassment when, with intent to intimidate, annoy or
alarm another person, the person does any of the following:
   A.   Communicates with another by telephone, telegraph, writing or via
electronic communication without legitimate purpose and in a manner likely to
cause the other person annoyance or harm.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   B.   Places any simulated explosive or simulated incendiary device in or
near any building, vehicle, airplane, railroad engine or railroad car, or boat
occupied by the other person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   C.   Orders merchandise or services in the name of another, or to be
delivered to another, without such other person’s knowledge or consent.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
   D.   Reports or causes to be reported false information to a law enforcement
authority implicating another in some criminal activity, knowing that the
information is false, or reports the alleged occurrence of a criminal act,
knowing the same did not occur.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.7)
2.   A person commits harassment when the person, purposefully and without
legitimate purpose, has personal contact with another person, with the intent
to threaten, intimidate or alarm that other person. As used in this section,
unless the context otherwise requires, “personal contact” means an encounter in
which two or more people are in visual or physical proximity to each other.
“Personal contact” does not require a physical touching or oral communication,
although it may include these types of contacts.
40.03   DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
No person shall do any of the following:
1.   Fighting. Engage in fighting or violent behavior in any public place or in
or near any lawful assembly of persons, provided that participants in athletic
contests may engage in such conduct that is reasonably related to that sport.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1a])
2.   Noise. Make loud and raucous noise in the vicinity of any residence or
public building which intentionally or recklessly causes unreasonable distress
to the occupants thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1b])
3.   Abusive Language. Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture
that the person knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent
reaction by another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1c])
4.   Disrupt Lawful Assembly. Without lawful authority or color of authority,
disturb any lawful assembly or meeting of persons by conduct intended to
disrupt the meeting or assembly.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1d])
5.   False Report of Catastrophe. By words or action, initiate or circulate a
report or warning of fire, epidemic, or other catastrophe, knowing such report
to be false or such warning to be baseless.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1e])
6.   Disrespect of Flag. Knowingly and publicly use the flag of the United
States in such a manner as to show disrespect for the flag as a symbol of the
United States, with the intent or reasonable expectation that such use will
provoke or encourage another to commit trespass or assault. As used in this
subsection:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.4[1f])
   A.   “Deface” means to intentionally mar the external appearance.
   B.   “Defile” means to intentionally make physically unclean.
   C.   “Flag” means a piece of woven cloth or other material designed to be
flown from a pole or mast.
   D.   “Mutilate” means to intentionally cut up or alter so as to make
imperfect.
   E.   “Show disrespect” means to deface, defile, mutilate, or trample.
   F.   “Trample” means to intentionally tread upon or intentionally cause a
machine, vehicle, or animal to tread upon.
7.   Funeral or Memorial Service. Within 1,000 feet of the building or other
location where a funeral or memorial service is being conducted, or within
1,000 feet of a funeral procession or burial:
   A.   Make loud and raucous noise that causes unreasonable distress to the
persons attending the funeral or memorial service or participating in the
funeral procession.
   B.   Direct abusive epithets or make any threatening gesture that the person
knows or reasonably should know is likely to provoke a violent reaction by
another.
   C.   Disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial service, funeral procession,
or burial by conduct intended to disturb or disrupt the funeral, memorial
service, funeral procession, or burial.
This subsection applies to conduct within 60 minutes preceding, during, and
within 60 minutes after a funeral, memorial service, funeral procession, or
burial.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.5)
40.04   FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
A peace officer may order the participants in a riot or unlawful assembly or
persons in the immediate vicinity of a riot or unlawful assembly to disperse.
No person within hearing distance of such command shall refuse to obey.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 723.3)
CHAPTER 41
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
41.01 Distributing Dangerous Substances                  41.09 Antenna and
                                                         Radio Wires
41.02 False Reports to or Communications with Public     41.10 Barbed Wire and
Safety Entities                                          Electric Fences
41.03 Providing False Identification Information         41.11 Discharging
                                                         Weapons
41.04 Refusing to Assist Officer                         41.12 Throwing and
                                                         Shooting
41.05 Harassment of Public Officers and Employees        41.13 Urinating and
                                                         Defecating
41.06 Interference with Official Acts                    41.14 Fireworks
41.07 Removal of an Officer’s Communication or Control 41.15 Drug
Device                                                   Paraphernalia
41.08 Abandoned or Unattended Refrigerators              41.16 Failure to
                                                         Assist
 
41.01   DISTRIBUTING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
No person shall distribute samples of any drugs or medicine, or any corrosive,
caustic, poisonous or other injurious substance unless the person delivers such
into the hands of a competent person, or otherwise takes reasonable precautions
that the substance will not be taken by children or animals from the place
where the substance is deposited.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.1)
41.02   FALSE REPORTS TO OR COMMUNICATIONS WITH PUBLIC SAFETY ENTITIES.
No person shall do any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.6)
1.   Report or cause to be reported false information to a fire department, a
law enforcement authority or other public safety entity, knowing that the
information is false, or report the alleged occurrence of a criminal act
knowing the act did not occur.
2.   Telephone an emergency 911 communications center, knowing that he or she
is not reporting an emergency or otherwise needing emergency information or
assistance.
3.   Knowingly provide false information to a law enforcement officer who
enters the information on a citation.
41.03   PROVIDING FALSE IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.
No person shall knowingly provide false identification information to anyone
known by the person to be a peace officer, emergency medical care provider, or
firefighter, whether paid or volunteer, in the performance of any act that is
within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that officer, emergency
medical care provider, or firefighter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1A)
41.04   REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
Any person who is requested or ordered by any magistrate or peace officer to
render the magistrate or officer assistance in making or attempting to make an
arrest, or to prevent the commission of any criminal act, shall render
assistance as required. No person shall unreasonably and without lawful cause,
refuse or neglect to render assistance when so requested.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.2)
41.05   HARASSMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
No person shall willfully prevent or attempt to prevent any public officer or
employee from performing the officer’s or employee’s duty.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 718.4)
41.06   INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTS.
No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct anyone known by the person to be a
peace officer, jailer, emergency medical care provider under Chapter 147A of
the Code of Iowa, medical examiner, or firefighter, whether paid or volunteer,
or a person performing bailiff duties pursuant to Section 602.1303[4] of the
Code of Iowa, in the performance of any act that is within the scope of the
lawful duty or authority of that officer, jailer, emergency medical care
provider, medical examiner, or firefighter, or person performing bailiff
duties, or shall knowingly resist or obstruct the service or execution by any
authorized person of any civil or criminal process or order of any court. The
terms “resist” and “obstruct” as used in this section do not include verbal
harassment unless the verbal harassment is accompanied by a present ability and
apparent intention to execute a verbal threat physically.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 719.1)
41.07   REMOVAL OF AN OFFICER’S COMMUNICATION OR CONTROL DEVICE.
No person shall knowingly or intentionally remove or attempt to remove a
communication device or any device used for control from the possession of a
peace officer or correctional officer, when the officer is in the performance
of any act which is within the scope of the lawful duty or authority of that
officer and the person knew or should have known the individual to be an
officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 708.12)
41.08   ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS.
No person shall abandon or otherwise leave unattended any refrigerator, ice
box, or similar container, with doors that may become locked, outside of
buildings and accessible to children, nor shall any person allow any such
refrigerator, ice box, or similar container, to remain outside of buildings on
premises in the person’s possession or control, abandoned or unattended and so
accessible to children.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.3)
41.09   ANTENNA AND RADIO WIRES.
It is unlawful for a person to allow antenna wires, antenna supports, radio
wires or television wires to exist over any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground or public building without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12 [2])
41.10   BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
It is unlawful for a person to use barbed wire or electric fences to enclose
land within the City limits without the written consent of the Council unless
such land consists of 10 acres or more and is used as agricultural land.
41.11   DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
1.   It is unlawful for a person to discharge rifles, shotguns, revolvers,
pistols, guns or other firearms of any kind within the City limits except by
written consent of the Council.
2.   No person shall intentionally discharge a firearm in a reckless manner.
41.12   THROWING AND SHOOTING.
It is unlawful for a person to throw stones, bricks or missiles of any kind or
to shoot arrows, paintballs, rubber guns, slingshots, air rifles, or other
dangerous instruments or toys on or into any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
public way, public ground or public building, without written consent of the
Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12 [2])
41.13   URINATING AND DEFECATING.
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate onto any sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public way, or onto any public or private building, including
(but not limited to) the wall, floor, hallway, steps, stairway, doorway or
window thereof, or onto any public or private land.
41.14   FIREWORKS.
The sale, use or exploding of fireworks within the City are subject to the
following:
1.   Definition.
   A.   “Consumer Fireworks” as defined in Section 727.2(la) of the Code of
Iowa is hereby adopted.
   B.   “Display Fireworks” as defined in Section 727.2(1b) of the Code of Iowa
is hereby adopted .
2.   Sales.
   A.   The sale of consumer fireworks can only occur between the dates of June
1st and July 8th inclusive; and December 10th and January 3rd inclusive.
   B.   Prior to any person engaging in the sale of consumer fireworks, proof
of valid license issued from the State Fire Marshal must be presented to the
City Administrator.
3.   Regulations. It is unlawful for any person to use or explode any
fireworks; provided the City may, upon application in writing, grant a permit
for the display of fireworks by a City agency, fair associations, amusement
parks and other organizations or groups of individuals approved by City
authorities when such fireworks display will be handled by a competent
operator. No permit shall be granted hereunder unless the operator or
sponsoring organization has filed with the City evidence of insurance in the
following amounts:
   A.   Personal Injury:   $250,000.00 per person.
   B.   Property Damage:   $50,000.00
   C.   Total Exposure:   $1,000,000.00
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
4.   Exceptions. This section does not prohibit the sale by a resident, dealer,
manufacturer or jobber of such fireworks as are not prohibited; or the sale of
any kind of fireworks if they are to be shipped out of State; or the sale or
use of blank cartridges for a show or theatre, or for signal purposes in
athletic sports or by railroads or trucks for signal purposes, or by a
recognized military organization. This section does not apply to any substance
or composition prepared and sold for medicinal or fumigation purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.2)
41.15   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 124.414)
1.   As used in this section “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment, products
or materials of any kind used or attempted to be used in combination with a
controlled substance, except those items used in combination with the lawful
use of a controlled substance, to knowingly or intentionally and primarily do
any of the following:
   A.   Manufacture a controlled substance.
   B.   Inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
   C.   Test the strength, effectiveness or purity of a controlled substance.
   D.   Enhance the effect of a controlled substance.
Drug paraphernalia does not include hypodermic needles or syringes if
manufactured, delivered, sold or possessed for a lawful purpose.
2.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally manufacture,
deliver, sell or possess drug paraphernalia.
41.16   FAILURE TO ASSIST.
A person who reasonably believes another person is suffering from a risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death shall, if the person is able,
attempt to contact local law enforcement or local emergency response
authorities, if doing so does not place the person or other person at risk of
serious bodily injury or imminent danger of death. No person shall without
lawful cause violate the provisions of this section. A person shall not be
required to contact local law enforcement or emergency response authorities if
the person knows or reasonably believes that the other person is not in need of
help or assistance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 727.12)
CHAPTER 42
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 
42.01 Trespassing                       42.05 Fraud
42.02 Criminal Mischief                 42.06 Theft
42.03 Defacing Proclamations or Notices 42.07 Swimming Pool; Alcoholic
                                        Beverages
42.04 Unauthorized Entry                42.08 Other Public Property Offenses
 
42.01   TRESPASSING.
1.   Prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the
property of another.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.8)
2.   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[1])
   A.   “Property” includes any land, dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle,
or other temporary or permanent structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
   B.   “Public utility” is a public utility as defined in Section 476.1 of the
Code of Iowa or an electric transmission line as provided in Chapter 478 of the
Code of Iowa.
   C.   “Public utility property” means any land, dwelling, building,
conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent structure owned, leased,
or operated by a public utility and that is completely enclosed by a physical
barrier of any kind.
   D.   “Railway corporation” means a corporation, company, or person owning,
leasing, or operating any railroad in whole or in part within this State.
   E.   “Railway property” means all tangible real and personal property owned,
leased, or operated by a railway corporation, with the exception of any
administrative building or offices of the railway corporation.
   F.   “Trespass” means one or more of the following acts:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2a])
      (1)   Entering upon or in property without the express permission of the
owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession with the intent to commit a
public offense or to use, remove therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate.
      (2)   Entering or remaining upon or in property without justification
after being notified or requested to abstain from entering or to remove or
vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or the
agent or employee of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession, or by
any peace officer, magistrate, or public employee whose duty it is to supervise
the use or maintenance of the property.
      (3)   Entering upon or in property for the purpose or with the effect of
unduly interfering with the lawful use of the property by others.
      (4)   Being upon or in property and wrongfully using, removing therefrom,
altering, damaging, harassing, or placing thereon or therein anything animate
or inanimate, without the implied or actual permission of the owner, lessee, or
person in lawful possession.
      (5)   Entering or remaining upon or in railway property without lawful
authority or without the consent of the railway corporation which owns, leases,
or operates the railway property. This paragraph does not apply to passage over
a railroad right-of-way, other than a track, railroad roadbed, viaduct, bridge,
trestle, or railroad yard, by an unarmed person if the person has not been
notified or requested to abstain from entering onto the right-of-way or to
vacate the right-of-way and the passage over the right-of-way does not
interfere with the operation of the railroad.
      (6)   Entering or remaining upon or in public utility property without
lawful authority or without the consent of the public utility that owns,
leases, or operates the public utility property. This paragraph does not apply
to passage over public utility right-of-way by a person if the person has not
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering onto the right-of-way or to vacate the right-of-way.
3.   Specific Exceptions. “Trespass” does not mean either of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.7[2b])
   A.   Entering upon the property of another for the sole purpose of
retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently been
thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of another, provided that
the person retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible route
to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly as is
possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
This paragraph does not apply to public utility property where the person has
been notified or requested by posted signage or other means to abstain from
entering.
   B.   Entering upon the right-of-way of a public road or highway.
42.02   CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It is unlawful, for any person who has no right to do so, to intentionally
damage, deface, alter or destroy property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.03   DEFACING PROCLAMATIONS OR NOTICES.
It is unlawful for a person intentionally to deface, obliterate, tear down, or
destroy in whole or in part, any transcript or extract from or of any law of
the United States or the State, or any proclamation, advertisement or
notification, set up at any place within the City by authority of the law or by
order of any court, during the time for which the same is to remain set up.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
42.04   UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY.
No unauthorized person shall enter or remain in or upon any public building,
premises or grounds in violation of any notice posted thereon or when said
building, premises or grounds are closed and not open to the public. When open
to the public, a failure to pay any required admission fee also constitutes an
unauthorized entry.
42.05   FRAUD.
It is unlawful for any person to commit a fraudulent practice as defined in
Section 714.8 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.8)
42.06   THEFT.
It is unlawful for any person to commit theft as defined in Section 714.1 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 714.1)
42.07   SWIMMING POOL; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
It is unlawful for a person to use, consume or possess alcoholic liquors, wine
or beer in the City swimming pool property, and no person shall be intoxicated
or simulate intoxication while on such swimming pool property. Any person
violating any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a simple
misdemeanor.
42.08   OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY OFFENSES.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other activities or conditions that are also deemed
to be public property offenses:
1.   
Chapter 22 – Library
   A.   Section
22.10 – Injury to Books or Property
   B.   Section
22.11 – Theft of Library Property
2.   
Chapter 105 – Solid Waste Control and Recycling
   A.   Section
105.08 – Littering Prohibited
3.   
Chapter 135 – Street Use and Maintenance
   A.   Section
135.01 – Removal of Warning Devices
   B.   Section
135.02 – Obstructing or Defacing
   C.   Section
135.03 – Placing Debris On
   D.   Section
135.04 – Playing In
   E.   Section
135.05 – Traveling on Barricaded Street or Alley
   F.   Section
135.08 – Burning Prohibited
   G.   Section
135.12 – Dumping of Snow
4.   
Chapter 136 – Sidewalk Regulations
   A.   Section
136.11 – Interference with Sidewalk Improvements
   B.   Section
136.15 – Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
   C.   Section
136.16 – Defacing
   D.   Section
136.17 – Debris on Sidewalks
   E.   Section
136.18 – Merchandise Display
   F.   Section
136.19 – Sales Stands
CHAPTER 45
ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AND INTOXICATION.
 
45.01 Persons Under Legal Age 45.03 Open Containers in Motor Vehicles
45.02 Public Consumption or   45.04 Social Host
Intoxication
 
45.01   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
As used in this section, “legal age” means 21 years of age or more.  
1.   A person or persons under legal age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase, consume, or individually or jointly have alcoholic beverages in their
possession or control; except in the case of any alcoholic beverage given or
dispensed to a person under legal age within a private home and with the
knowledge, presence and consent of the parent or guardian, for beverage or
medicinal purposes or as administered to the person by either a physician or
dentist for medicinal purposes and except to the extent that a person under
legal age may handle alcoholic beverages during the regular course of the
person’s employment by a liquor control licensee, or wine or beer permittee
under State laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[ 3])
2.   A person under legal age shall not misrepresent the person’s age for the
purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage from any
liquor control licensee or wine or beer permittee.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[3])
45.02   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OR INTOXICATION.
1.   As used in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
   A.   “Arrest” means the same as defined in Section 804.5 of the Code of Iowa
and includes taking into custody pursuant to Section 232.19 of the Code of
Iowa.
   B.   “Chemical test” means a test of a person’s blood, breath, or urine to
determine the percentage of alcohol present by a qualified person using devices
and methods approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   C.   “Peace Officer” means the same as defined in Section 801.4 of the Code
of Iowa.
   D.   “School” means a public or private school or that portion of a public
or private school which provides teaching for any grade from kindergarten
through grade twelve.
2.   A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor, wine or beer upon the
public streets or highways. A person shall not use or consume alcoholic liquor
in any public place, except premises covered by a liquor control license. A
person shall not possess or consume alcoholic liquors, wine or beer on public
school property or while attending any public or private school-related
function. A person shall not be intoxicated in a public place.
3.   A person shall not simulate intoxication in a public place.
4.   When a peace officer arrests a person on a charge of public intoxication
under this section, the peace officer shall inform the person that the person
may have a chemical test administered at the person’s own expense. If a device
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety for testing a sample of a
person’s breath to determine the person’s blood alcohol concentration is
available, that is the only test that need be offered the person arrested. In a
prosecution for public intoxication, evidence of the results of a chemical test
performed under this subsection is admissible upon proof of a proper
foundation. The percentage of alcohol present in a person’s blood, breath, or
urine established by the results of a chemical test performed within two hours
after the person’s arrest on a charge of public intoxication is presumed to be
the percentage of alcohol present at the time of arrest.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.46)
45.03   OPEN CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
[See Section
62.01(50) and (51) of this Code of Ordinances.]
45.04   SOCIAL HOST.
A person who is the owner or lessee of, or who otherwise has control over,
property that is not a licensed premise shall not knowingly permit any person,
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the person to be under the age of
eighteen, to consume or possess on such property any alcoholic beverage. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a landlord or manager of the
property or to a person under legal age who consumes or possesses any alcoholic
beverage in connection with a religious observance, ceremony, or rite.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.47[1A])
CHAPTER 46
MINORS.
 
46.01 Cigarettes and Tobacco 46.02 Contributing to Delinquency
 
46.01   CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO.
It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to smoke, use, possess,
purchase, or attempt to purchase any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes. Possession of tobacco,
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes
by an individual under 21 years of age shall not constitute a violation of this
section if the individual under 21 years of age possesses the tobacco, tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes as part
of the person’s employment and said person is employed by a person who holds a
valid permit under Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or who lawfully offers for
sale or sells cigarettes or tobacco products.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2)
46.02   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY.
It is unlawful for any person to encourage any child under 18 years of age to
commit any act of delinquency.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 709A.1)
CHAPTER 47
PARK REGULATIONS.
 
47.01 Purpose                47.03 Fires
47.02 Use of Drives Required 47.04 Littering
 
47.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the enjoyment of park facilities
by the general public by establishing rules and regulations governing the use
of park facilities.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12)
47.02   USE OF DRIVES REQUIRED.
No person shall drive any car, cycle or other vehicle, or ride or lead any
horse, in any portion of a park except upon the established drives or roadways
therein or such other places as may be officially designated by the City.
47.03   FIRES.
No fires shall be built, except in a place provided therefor, and such fire
shall be extinguished before leaving the area unless it is to be immediately
used by some other party.
47.04   LITTERING.
No person shall place, deposit, or throw any waste, refuse, litter or foreign
substance in any area or receptacle except those provided for that purpose.
CHAPTER 50
NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
 
50.01 Definition of Nuisance 50.05 Nuisance Abatements
50.02 Nuisances Enumerated   50.06 Abatement of Nuisance by Written Notice
50.03 Other Conditions       50.07 Municipal Infraction Abatement Procedure
50.04 Nuisances Prohibited
 
50.01   DEFINITION OF NUISANCE.
Whatever is injurious to health, indecent, or unreasonably offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so as essentially to
interfere unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is a
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.1)
50.02   NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
The following subsections include, but do not limit, the conditions which are
deemed to be nuisances in the City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.2)
1.   Offensive Smells. Erecting, continuing or using any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, unreasonably offensive smells, or other
annoyances, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or property
of individuals or the public.
2.   Filth or Noisome Substance. Causing or suffering any offal, filth or
noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place to the prejudice of
others.
3.   Impeding Passage of Navigable River. Obstructing or impeding without legal
authority the passage of any navigable river, harbor or collection of water.
4.   Water Pollution. Corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure the water
of any river, stream or pond, or unlawfully diverting the same from its natural
course or state, to the injury or prejudice of others.
5.   Blocking Public and Private Ways. Obstructing or encumbering, by fences,
buildings or otherwise, the public roads, private ways, streets, alleys,
commons, landing places or burying grounds.
6.   Billboards. Billboards, signboards and advertising signs, whether erected
and constructed on public or private property, which so obstruct and impair the
view of any portion or part of a public street, avenue, highway, boulevard or
alley or of a railroad or street railway track as to render dangerous the use
thereof. (See also Section
62.06) 
7.   Storing of Flammable Junk. Depositing or storing of flammable junk, such
as old rags, rope, cordage, rubber, bones and paper, by dealers in such
articles within the fire limits of the City, unless in a building of fireproof
construction. (See also
Chapter 51) 
8.   Air Pollution. Emission of dense smoke, noxious fumes or fly ash.
9.   Weeds, Grass and Other Vegetation. Dense growth of all weeds, vines, brush
or other vegetation in excess of nine inches high, other than trees, bushes,
flower gardens, or ornamental plants, which constitute a health, safety, or
fire hazard. (See also
Chapter 52)
10.   Dutch Elm Disease. Trees infected with Dutch Elm Disease. (See also
Chapter 151)
11.   Airport Air Space. Any object or structure hereafter erected within 1,000
feet of the limits of any municipal or regularly established airport or landing
place, which may endanger or obstruct aerial navigation including take-off and
landing, unless such object or structure constitutes a proper use or enjoyment
of the land on which the same is located.
12.   Houses of Ill Fame. Houses of ill fame, kept for the purpose of
prostitution and lewdness; gambling houses; places resorted to by persons
participating in criminal gang activity prohibited by Chapter 723A of the Code
of Iowa or places resorted to by persons using controlled substances, as
defined in Section 124.101 of the Code of Iowa, in violation of law, or houses
where drunkenness, quarreling, fighting or breaches of the peace are carried on
or permitted to the disturbance of others.
13.   Obscene Material. Businesses selling pornographic material and products
are prohibited within City limits.
50.03   OTHER CONDITIONS.
The following chapters of this Code of Ordinances contain regulations
prohibiting or restricting other conditions that are deemed to be nuisances:
1.   Junk and Junk Vehicles (See
Chapter 51)
2.   Mowing of Properties (See also
Chapter 52)
3.   Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste (See
Chapter 105)
4.   Unsafe Buildings (See
Chapter 145)
5.   Trees (See
Chapter 151)
50.04   NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
The creation or maintenance of a nuisance is prohibited, and a nuisance, public
or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in this chapter or State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657.3)
50.05   NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
Whenever any authorized municipal officer finds that a nuisance exists, such
officer has the authority to determine on a case-by-case basis whether to
utilize the nuisance abatement procedure described in Section
50.06 of this chapter or the municipal infraction procedure referred to in
Section
50.07. 
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
50.06   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY WRITTEN NOTICE.
Any nuisance, public or private, may be abated in the manner provided for in
this section:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Contents of Notice to Property Owner. The notice to abate shall contain: †
4
   A.   Description of Nuisance. A description of what constitutes the
nuisance.
   B.   Location of Nuisance. The location of the nuisance.
   C.   Acts Necessary to Abate. A statement of the act or acts necessary to
abate the nuisance.
   D.   Reasonable Time. A reasonable time within which to complete the
abatement.
   E.   Assessment of City Costs. A statement that if the nuisance or condition
is not abated as directed and no request for hearing is made within the time
prescribed, the City will abate it and assess the costs against the property
owner.
2.   Method of Service. The notice to abate shall be served upon the property
owner by using one of the following methods:
   A.   By mailing the notice by certified mail, with return receipt requested,
addressed to the property owner at said owner’s last known mailing address.
Notice served by certified mail is made and completed when the notice is
enclosed in a sealed envelope, with proper postage affixed, addressed to the
property owner at said owner’s last known mailing address, and deposited in a
mail receptacle provided by the United States Postal Service.
   B.   By serving the notice personally, on the same conditions, and in the
same manner as provided for the service of original notices under the Iowa
Rules of Civil Procedure.
3.   Request for Hearing. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may have a
hearing with the Council as to whether a nuisance exists. A request for a
hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the Clerk within the time
stated in the notice, or it will be conclusively presumed that a nuisance
exists and it must be abated as ordered. The hearing will be before the Council
at a time and place fixed by the Council. The findings of the Council shall be
conclusive and, if a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated
within a reasonable time under the circumstances.
4.   Abatement in Emergency. If it is determined that an emergency exists by
reason of the continuing maintenance of the nuisance or condition, the City may
perform any action that may be required under this chapter without prior
notice. The City shall assess the costs as provided in subsection 6 of this
section after notice to the property owner under the applicable provisions of
subsection 1 and 2, and the hearing as provided in subsection 3.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
5.   Abatement by City. If the person notified to abate a nuisance or condition
neglects or fails to abate as directed, the City may perform the required
action to abate, keeping an accurate account of the expense incurred. The
itemized expense account shall be filed with the Clerk, who shall pay such
expenses on behalf of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
6.   Collection of Costs. The Clerk shall send a statement of the total expense
incurred by certified mail to the property owner who has failed to abide by the
notice to abate, and if the amount shown by the statement has not been paid
within one month, the Clerk shall certify the costs to the County Treasurer and
such costs shall then be collected with, and in the same manner as, general
property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
7.   Installment Payment of Cost of Abatement. If the amount expended to abate
the nuisance or condition exceeds $500.00, the City may permit the assessment
to be paid in up to 10 annual installments, to be paid in the same manner and
with the same interest rates provided for assessments against benefited
property under State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.13)
8.   Failure to Abate. Any person causing or maintaining a nuisance who shall
fail or refuse to abate or remove the same within the reasonable time required
and specified in the notice to abate is in violation of this Code of
Ordinances.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: A suggested form of notice for the abatement of nuisances is
  included in the Appendix of this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use
  of this administrative abatement procedure, particularly where cost of abatement
4 is more than minimal or where there is doubt as to whether or not a nuisance does
  in fact exist. If compliance is not secured following notice and hearings, we
  recommend you review the situation with your attorney before proceeding with
  abatement and assessment of costs. Your attorney may recommend proceedings in
  court under Chapter 657 of the Code of Iowa rather than this procedure.
50.07   MUNICIPAL INFRACTION ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In lieu of the abatement procedures set forth in Section
50.06, the requirements of this chapter may be enforced under the procedures
applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of this Code of Ordinances.
CHAPTER 51
JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES.
 
51.01 Definitions                       51.04 Exceptions
51.02 Junk and Junk Vehicles Prohibited 51.05 Notice to Abate
51.03 Junk and Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
 
51.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Junk” means all old or scrap copper, brass, lead, or any other non-
ferrous metal; old or discarded rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste or used lumber, or salvaged wood; dismantled vehicles, machinery
and appliances or parts of such vehicles, machinery or appliances; iron, steel
or other old or scrap ferrous materials; old or discarded glass, tinware,
plastic or old or discarded household goods, furniture or hardware. Neatly
stacked firewood located on a side yard or a rear yard is not considered junk.
2.   “Junk vehicle” means any vehicle legally placed in storage with the County
Treasurer or unlicensed and which has any of the following characteristics:
   A.   Broken Glass. Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield, window,
headlight or tail light, or any other cracked or broken glass.
   B.   Broken, Loose or Missing Part. Any vehicle with a broken, loose or
missing fender, door, bumper, hood, steering wheel or trunk lid.
   C.   Habitat for Nuisance Animals or Insects. Any vehicle which has become
the habitat for rats, mice, or snakes, or any other vermin or insects.
   D.   Flammable Fuel. Any vehicle which contains gasoline or any other
flammable fuel.
   E.   Inoperable. Any motor vehicle which lacks an engine or two or more
wheels or other structural parts, rendering said motor vehicle totally
inoperable, or that cannot be moved under its own power or has not been used as
an operating vehicle for a period of thirty (30) days or more.
   F.   Defective or Obsolete Condition. Any other vehicle which, because of
its defective or obsolete condition, in any other way constitutes a threat to
the public health and safety.
Mere licensing of such vehicle shall not constitute a defense to the finding
that the vehicle is a junk vehicle.
3.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which a person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway or street, excepting devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
includes without limitation a motor vehicle, automobile, truck, motorcycle,
tractor, buggy, wagon, farm machinery, or any combination thereof.
51.02   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any person to store, accumulate, or allow to remain on any
private property within the corporate limits of the City any junk or junk
vehicle.
51.03   JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE.
It is hereby declared that any junk or junk vehicle located upon private
property, unless excepted by Section
51.04, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens and is a
nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa. If any junk
or junk vehicle is kept upon private property in violation hereof, the owner of
or person occupying the property upon which it is located shall be prima facie
liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
51.04   EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the following:
1.   A vehicle in an enclosed building.
2.   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a district
properly zoned therefor, as authorized under the Zoning Ordinance or restricted
residence district of the City, when necessary to the operation of said
business enterprise.
3.   A vehicle in an appropriate storage space or depository maintained in a
lawful place and lawful manner by this City.
51.05   NOTICE TO ABATE.
Upon discovery of any junk or junk vehicle located upon private property in
violation of Section
51.03, the City shall within five days initiate abatement procedures as
outlined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a])
CHAPTER 52
MOWING OF PROPERTIES.
 
52.01 Mowing of Properties 52.03 Method of Service and Billing
52.02 Penalty
 
52.01   MOWING OF PROPERTIES.
Any property within the City, whether vacated or non-vacated, is required to be
mowed and trimmed any time the weeds, grass and other vegetation reach a height
of more than nine inches.
52.02   PENALTY.
The City or their agents may mow and or trim any property, which is not mowed
and or trimmed when it meets the above criteria, and a charge of $50.00 per man
hour, with a minimum of one man hour, for such mowing and or trimming, plus a
surcharge of $75.00, will be charged to the property owner. Any property owners
who fail to mow and or trim their properties, thus allowing the same to be
mowed and or trimmed by the City or their agents, and who do not provide
payment for the mowing and or trimming as required, will be assessed by the
City for such costs, which will be collected in the same manner as general
property taxes.
52.03   METHOD OF SERVICE AND BILLING.
Annual publication of the ordinance codified by this chapter will serve as
notice to property owners. Any billings for mowing and or trimming done by the
City or their agents are to be sent by regular mail and are payable within 30
days of the billing date.
CHAPTER 55
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND CONTROL.
55.01 Definitions                  55.11 Confinement
55.02 Animal Neglect               55.12 At Large: Impoundment
55.03 Livestock Neglect            55.13 Disposition of Animals
55.04 Abandonment of Cats and Dogs 55.14 Impounding Costs
55.05 Livestock                    55.15 Pet Awards Prohibited
55.06 At Large Prohibited          55.16 Prohibited Acts by Owners of Animals
55.07 Damage or Interference       55.17 Number of Animals Limited
55.08 Annoyance or Disturbance     55.18 Court Costs
55.09 Rabies Vaccination           55.19 Tampering With A Rabies Vaccination
                                   Tag
55.10 Owner’s Duty               55.20 Tampering With An Electronic Handling
                                   Device
 
55.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in this chapter.
1.   “Advertise” means to present a commercial message in any medium, including
(but not limited to) print, radio, television, sign, display, label, tag, or
articulation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
2.   “Animal” means a nonhuman vertebrate.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.1)
3.   “Animal shelter” means a facility which is used to house or contain dogs
or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated, or maintained by an
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare,
protection, and humane treatment of such animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
4.   “At large” means off the premises of the owner and not under the control
of a competent person, restrained within a motor vehicle, or housed in a
veterinary hospital or kennel.
5.   “Business” means any enterprise relating to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The sale or offer for sale of goods or services.
   B.   A recruitment for employment or membership in an organization.
   C.   A solicitation to make an investment.
   D.   An amusement or entertainment activity.
6.   “Commercial establishment” means an animal shelter, boarding kennel,
commercial breeder, commercial kennel, dealer, pet shop, pound, public auction,
or research facility.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
7.   “Fair” means any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
   A.   The annual fair and exposition held by the Iowa State Fair Board
pursuant to Chapter 173 of the Code of Iowa or any fair event conducted by a
fair under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   An exhibition of agricultural or manufactured products.
   C.   An event for operation of amusement rides or devices or concession
booths.
8.   “Game” means a “game of chance” or “game of skill” as defined in Section
99B.1 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
9.   “Injury” means an animal’s disfigurement; the impairment of an animal’s
health; or an impairment to the functioning of an animal’s limb or organ, or
the loss of an animal’s limb or organ.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
10.   “Livestock” means an animal belonging to the bovine, caprine, equine,
ovine or porcine species, ostriches, rheas, and emus; farm deer (as defined in
Section 170.1 of the Code of Iowa); or poultry.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.1)
11.   “Owner” means any person owning, keeping, sheltering, or harboring an
animal.
12.   “Pet” means a living dog, cat, or an animal normally maintained in a
small tank or cage in or near a residence, including but not limited to a
rabbit, gerbil, hamster, mouse, parrot, canary, mynah, finch, tropical fish,
goldfish, snake, turtle, gecko, or iguana.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717E.1)
13.   “Pound” means a facility for the prevention of cruelty to animals
operated by the State, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision
of the State for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized stray, homeless,
abandoned, or unwanted dogs, cats, or other animals; or a facility operated for
such a purpose under a contract with any municipal corporation or incorporated
society.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
14.   “Research facility” means any school or college of medicine, veterinary
medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, or osteopathic medicine, or hospital, diagnostic
or research laboratories, or other educational or scientific establishment
situated in the State concerned with the investigation of, or instruction
concerning the structure or function of living organisms, the cause,
prevention, control, or cure of diseases or abnormal conditions of human beings
or animals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 162.2)
15.   “Veterinarian” means a veterinarian licensed pursuant to Chapter 169 of
the Code of Iowa who practices veterinary medicine in the State.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.B1)
55.02   ANIMAL NEGLECT.
1.   It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of an animal and
confines that animal to fail to provide the animal with any of the following
conditions for the animal’s welfare:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.3)
   A.   Access to food in an amount and quality reasonably sufficient to
satisfy the animal’s basic nutrition level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.
   B.   Access to a supply of potable water in an amount reasonably sufficient
to satisfy the animal’s basic hydration level to the extent that the animal’s
health or life is endangered.  Access to snow or ice does not satisfy this
requirement.
   C.   Sanitary conditions free from excessive animal waste or the
overcrowding of animals to the extent that the animal’s health or life is
endangered.
   D.   Ventilated shelter reasonably sufficient to provide adequate protection
from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the age, species, and
physical condition of the animal so as to maintain the animal in a state of
good health to the extent that the animal’s health or life is endangered. The
shelter must protect the animal from wind, rain, snow, or sun and have adequate
bedding to provide reasonable protection against cold and dampness. A shelter
may include a residence, garage, barn, shed, or doghouse.
   E.   Grooming, to the extent it is reasonably necessary to prevent adverse
health effects or suffering.
   F.   Veterinary care deemed necessary by a reasonably prudent person to
relieve an animal’s distress from any of the following:
      (1)   A condition caused by failing to provide for the animal’s welfare
as described in this section.
      (2)   An injury or illness suffered by the animal causing the animal to
suffer prolonged pain and suffering.
2.   This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A person operating a commercial establishment under a valid
authorization issued or renewed under Section 162.2A of the Code of Iowa, or a
person acting under the direction or supervision of that person, if all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The animal, as described in Subsection 1, was maintained as part of
the commercial establishment’s operation.
      (2)   In providing conditions for the welfare of the animal, as described
in Subsection 1, the person complied with the standard of care requirements
provided in Section 162.10A[1] of the Code of Iowa, including any applicable
rules adopted by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship applying
to: (i) a State licensee or registrant operating pursuant to Section 162.10A
[2a] or [2b] of the Code of Iowa; or (ii) a permittee operating pursuant to
Section 162.10A[2c] of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   A research facility if the research facility has been issued or renewed
a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship
pursuant to Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa, and performs functions within the
scope of accepted practices and disciplines associated with the research
facility.
55.03   LIVESTOCK NEGLECT.
It is unlawful for a person who impounds or confines livestock in any place to
fail to provide the livestock with care consistent with customary animal
husbandry practices or to deprive the livestock of necessary sustenance or to
injure or destroy livestock by any means which causes pain or suffering in a
manner inconsistent with customary animal husbandry practices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717.2)
55.04   ABANDONMENT OF CATS AND DOGS.
It is unlawful for a person who owns or has custody of a cat or dog to
relinquish all rights in and duties to care for the cat or dog. This section
does not apply to any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 717B.8)
1.   The delivery of a cat or dog to another person who will accept ownership
and custody of the cat or dog.
2.   The delivery of a cat or dog to an animal shelter or that has been issued
or renewed a valid authorization by the Department of Agriculture and Land
Stewardship under Chapter 162 of the Code of Iowa.
3.   A person who relinquishes custody of a cat at a location in which the
person does not hold a legal or equitable interest, if previously the person
had taken custody of the cat at the same location and provided for the cat’s
sterilization by a veterinarian.
55.05   LIVESTOCK.
It is unlawful for a person to keep livestock within the City except by written
consent of the Council or except in compliance with the City’s zoning
regulations.
55.06   AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
It is unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the City.
55.07   DAMAGE OR INTERFERENCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of an animal to allow or permit such animal to
pass upon the premises of another thereby causing damage to, or interference
with, the premises.
55.08   ANNOYANCE OR DISTURBANCE.
It is unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow or permit such dog to cause
serious annoyance or disturbance to any person by frequent and habitual
howling, yelping, barking, or otherwise or by running after or chasing persons,
bicycles, automobiles or other vehicles. It is unlawful for the owner of a cat
to allow or permit such cat to cause serious annoyance of disturbance to any
person by frequent and habitual howling, whining, meowing or otherwise.
55.09   RABIES VACCINATION.
Every owner of a dog shall obtain a rabies vaccination for such animal. It is
unlawful for any person to own or have a dog in said person’s possession, six
months of age or over, which has not been vaccinated against rabies. Dogs kept
in State or federally licensed kennels and not allowed to run at large are not
subject to these vaccination requirements.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.33)
55.10   OWNER’S DUTY.
It is the duty of the owner of any dog, cat or other animal which has bitten or
attacked a person or any person having knowledge of such bite or attack to
report this act to a local health or law enforcement official. It is the duty
of physicians and veterinarians to report to the local board of health the
existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from rabies.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.38)
55.11   CONFINEMENT.
If a local board of health receives information that an animal has bitten a
person or that a dog or animal is suspected of having rabies, the board shall
order the owner to confine such animal in the manner it directs. If the owner
fails to confine such animal in the manner directed, the animal shall be
apprehended and impounded by such board, and after 10 days the board may
humanely destroy the animal. If such animal is returned to its owner, the owner
shall pay the cost of impoundment. This section does not apply if a police
service dog or a horse used by a law enforcement agency and acting in the
performance of its duties has bitten a person.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.39)
55.12   AT LARGE: IMPOUNDMENT.
Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be seized and
impounded, or at the discretion of the peace officer, the owner may be served a
summons to appear before a proper court to answer charges made thereunder.
55.13   DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
When an animal has been apprehended and impounded, written notice shall be
provided to the owner within two days after impoundment, if the owner’s name
and current address can reasonably be determined by accessing a tag or other
device that is on or part of the animal. Impounded animals may be recovered by
the owner upon payment of impounding costs, and if an unvaccinated dog, by
having it immediately vaccinated. If the owner fails to redeem the animal
within seven days from the date that the notice is mailed, or if the owner
cannot be located within seven days, the animal shall be disposed of in
accordance with law or destroyed by euthanasia.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.37, 351.41)
55.14   IMPOUNDING COSTS.
Impounding costs will be set by resolution of the Council.
55.15   PET AWARDS PROHIBITED.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 717.E)
1.   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to award a pet or advertise
that a pet may be awarded as any of the following:
   A.   A prize for participating in a game.
   B.   A prize for participating in a fair event.
   C.   An inducement or condition for visiting a place of business or
attending an event sponsored by a business.
   D.   An inducement or condition for executing a contract which includes
provisions unrelated to the ownership, care or disposition of the pet.
2.   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any of the following:
   A.   A pet shop licensed pursuant to Section 162.5 of the Code of Iowa if
the award of a pet is provided in connection with the sale of a pet on the
premises of the pet shop.
   B.   Youth programs associated with 4-H Clubs; Future Farmers of America;
the Izaak Walton League of America; or organizations associated with outdoor
recreation, hunting or fishing, including (but not limited to) the Iowa
Sportsmen’s Federation.
55.16   PROHIBITED ACTS BY OWNERS OF ANIMALS.
It is unlawful for any person to do the following:
1.   No person shall aid or cause any animal, whether owned by such person or
not, to escape confinement or impoundment, whether such confinement or
impoundment is upon such person’s property or that of another, by opening any
gate, door or window, by making an opening in any fence, enclosure or
structure, or by unleashing such animal.
2.   It is the duty of every person owning or having the custody or control of
any animal to physically restrain the animal within an enclosure or upon a
leash when such animal is left unattended outside. The animal must be
restrained so as to prevent the animal from leaving the premises of its owner
or from coming in contact with public right-of-way or the property of another.
Failure to restrain an animal pursuant to the foregoing shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
3.   When walking or exercising any animal, for every person owning or having
the custody or control of said animal, it is mandatory to carry a container or
bag, etc. to pick up animal’s feces and dispose of properly in a suitable
receptacle. If the animal is at large, it is still the owner or custodian’s
responsibility to clean up any feces that the animal has left on private or
public property.
4.   It is prohibited for any person in any manner to interfere with any
employee or designated representative of the City so as to hinder, delay or
prevent said person from executing his or her duties in relation to the matters
and things contained in this chapter.
5.   It is unlawful for any person owning, controlling or caring for any animal
to fail to keep in a clean and sanitary condition the premises and any pen,
kennel, shelter, house or person’s dwelling or other structure where the animal
is at any time kept. At least once every 24 hours or more often if odors or
health problems arise, such persons shall pick up any and all feces so as to
prevent its accumulation, and same shall be properly disposed of. Feces shall
be held in watertight and fly-tight containers pending disposal and shall be
disposed of at least once weekly. The animal and place where the animal is
maintained shall also be kept free of obnoxious odors and shall be maintained
so as not to attract or permit the harborage or breeding of flies and other
insects or rodents or other vermin. All animal food and water shall be stored
and placed for the animal’s consumption in such a manner so that it will not
become food for rodents and other vermin.
6.   It is unlawful for any owner or other person to abandon, turn loose, or
leave any animal within the corporate limits of the City or so that the animal
may find its way into the corporate limits of the City, or to abandon or leave
any animal upon or in any premises unattended for a period in excess of three
days.
7.   It is unlawful for any person to feed stray or feral cats causing a public
nuisance.
55.17   NUMBER OF ANIMALS LIMITED.
It is unlawful for an owner to harbor or house on the same premises more than
four animals over the age of four months unless such animals are in a licensed
kennel or pet shop, veterinary hospital or animal grooming shop.
55.18   COURT COSTS.
See Section
3.03(4) Defendant shall pay all costs relating to court appearances for animal
and or pet fees, whether they are found guilty or not guilty.
55.19   TAMPERING WITH A RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
It is unlawful to tamper with a rabies vaccination tag.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.45)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with a rabies vaccination tag if
all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, damages, or destroys a rabies vaccination
tag as described in Section 351.35 of the Code of Iowa.
   B.   The rabies vaccination tag is attached to a collar worn by a dog,
including as provided in Sections 351.25 and 351.26 of the Code of Iowa.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
55.20   TAMPERING WITH AN ELECTRONIC HANDLING DEVICE.
It is unlawful to tamper with an electronic handling device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 351.46)
1.   A person commits the offense of tampering with an electronic handling
device if all of the following apply:
   A.   The person knowingly removes, disables, or destroys an electronic
device designed and used to maintain custody or control of the dog or modify
the dog’s behavior.
   B.   The electronic device is attached to or worn by the dog or attached to
an item worn by the dog, including (but not limited to) a collar, harness, or
vest.
2.   This section shall not apply to an act taken by any of the following:
   A.   The owner of the dog, an agent of the owner, or a person authorized to
take action by the owner.
   B.   A peace officer.
   C.   A veterinarian.
   D.   An animal shelter or pound.
CHAPTER 56
DOG AND CAT LICENSES REQUIRED
 
56.01 Annual License Required 56.06 Immunization
56.02 License Fees            56.07 Duplicate Tags
56.03 Delinquency             56.08 Transfers of Licensed Dogs or Cats
56.04 License Tags            56.09 Kennel Dogs or Cats
56.05 License Records
 
56.01   ANNUAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
1.   Every owner of a dog or cat over the age of four months shall procure a
license from the Clerk between January 1 and January 31 of each calendar year.
2.   Such license may be procured at any time for a dog or cat which has come
into the possession or ownership of the applicant or which has reached the age
of four months after said date.
3.   The owner of a dog or cat for which a license is required shall apply to
the Clerk on forms provided by the Clerk.
4.   The form of the application shall state the breed, sex, age, color,
markings, and name, if any, of the dog or cat, and the address of the owner and
shall be signed by the owner. The application shall also state the date of the
most recent rabies vaccination for the dog, the type of vaccine administered
and the date the dog shall be revaccinated.
5.   All licenses shall expire on January 1 of the year following the date of
issuance.
56.02   LICENSE FEES.
The annual license fee shall be as established by resolution of the Council.
The fee shall accompany the application.
56.03   DELINQUENCY.
All license fees shall become delinquent on February 1 of the year in which
they are due and a delinquent penalty in an amount set by resolution of the
Council shall be added to each unpaid license on and after said date.
56.04   LICENSE TAGS.
Upon receipt of the application and fee, the Clerk shall deliver or mail to the
owner a license which shall be in the form of a metal tag stamped with the
serial number of the license as shown on the record book of the Clerk, the year
in which it is issued, and the name of the City. The license tag shall be
securely fastened by the owner to a collar or harness which shall be worn at
all times by the dog or cat for which issued. A license issued for one animal
shall not be transferable to another. Upon the expiration of the license the
owner shall remove said tag from the dog or cat.
56.05   LICENSE RECORDS.
The Clerk shall keep a book to be known as the record of licenses which shall
show:
1.   The serial number and date of each application for a license.
2.   The description of the dog or cat as specified in the application,
together with the name of the owner of the dog or cat.
3.   The date when each license tag is issued and the serial number of each
tag, the date of the most recent rabies vaccination for dogs, the type of
vaccine administered, and the date the dog shall be revaccinated.
4.   The amount of all fees, licenses, penalties and costs paid.
5.   Such other data as may be required by law.
56.06   IMMUNIZATION.
Before a license is issued, the owner shall furnish a veterinarian’s
certificate showing that the dog for which the license is sought has been
vaccinated against rabies, and that the vaccination does not expire within six
months from the effective date of the dog license. A tag showing evidence of
proper vaccination shall at all times be attached to the collar of the dog.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, the Mayor may order the
immunization of all cats against rabies, whenever in the Mayor’s discretion
public health or safety requires the same. It is a violation of this chapter
for any cat to run at large unless immunized whenever such immunization has
been ordered until the Mayor has found the public health and safety no longer
requires such immunization. A tag shall be issued by the Clerk whenever the
Mayor has ordered immunization of cats, to evidence such immunization, and this
tag shall be worn by such cats at all times.
56.07   DUPLICATE TAGS.
Upon the filing of an affidavit that the license tag has been lost or
destroyed, the owner may obtain another tag on the payment of $1.00 and the
Clerk shall enter in the license record the new number assigned.
56.08   TRANSFERS OF LICENSED DOGS OR CATS.
Upon transfer of a licensed dog or cat into the City, the owner shall surrender
the original license tag to the Clerk. The Clerk shall preserve the surrendered
tag and, without a license fee, issue a new license tag.
56.09   KENNEL DOGS OR CATS.
Dogs or cats kept in State or federally licensed kennels, which are kept or
raised solely for the bona fide purpose of sale and which are kept under
constant restraint, are not subject to the provisions of this chapter.
CHAPTER 57
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS.
 
57.01 Definitions                  57.04 Keeping of Vicious Animals Prohibited
57.02 Keeping of Dangerous Animals 57.05 Seizure, Impoundment and Disposition
Prohibited                         of Vicious Animals
57.03 Seizure, Impoundment, and
Disposition of Dangerous Animals
 
57.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Animal” means every wild, tame or domestic member of the animal kingdom
other than the genus and species Homo sapiens.
2.   “Dangerous animal” means the following animals: † 5
   A.   Badgers, wolverines, weasels, mink and other mustelids (except
ferrets);
   B.   Black widow spiders and scorpions;
   C.   Raccoons, opossums and skunks;
   D.   Dangerous dogs, meaning: (i) any dog with a propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack, to cause injury to or to otherwise endanger the safety
of humans or other domestic animals; or (ii) any pit bull terriers, including
any Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dog or any mixed breed of dog which
contains as an element of its breeding the breed of Staffordshire terrier as to
be identifiable as partially of the breed Staffordshire bull terrier or
American Staffordshire terrier by a qualified veterinarian duly licensed as
such by the State.
3.   “Vicious animal” means any animal, except for dangerous animals, as
referred to above, which has, while running at large, attacked or bitten a
person without provocation, or any animal that has exhibited vicious
propensities in present or past conduct, including such that said animal: (i)
has bitten a person or persons on two separate occasions within a 12-month
period; or (ii) did bite once causing injuries above the shoulders of a person;
or (iii) could not be controlled or restrained by the owner at the time of the
attack to prevent the occurrence; or (iv) has attacked or bitten any domestic
animal or fowl on two separate occasions within a 12-month period, or which has
been found to possess such propensities by the Council, after hearing.
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: Certain other dangerous animals, listed in Chapter 717F.1,
5 Paragraph 5a, of the Code of Iowa, are specifically prohibited and regulated by
  the Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship.
57.02   KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep, shelter, or harbor any dangerous animal as a pet, or act
as a custodian for such animal, temporarily or otherwise, or keep such animal
for any purpose or in any capacity within the City.
57.03   SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT, AND DISPOSITION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
1.   In the event that a dangerous animal is found at large and unattended upon
public property, park property, public right-of-way, or the property of someone
other than its owner, thereby creating a hazard to persons or property, such
animal may, in the discretion of the animal control officer, be destroyed if it
cannot be confined or captured. The City shall be under no duty to attempt the
confinement or capture of a dangerous animal found at large, nor shall it have
a duty to notify the owner of such animal prior to its destruction.
2.   Upon the complaint of any individual that a person is keeping, sheltering,
or harboring a dangerous animal on premises in the City, the animal control
officer shall cause the matter to be investigated and if after investigation,
the facts indicate that the person named in the complaint is keeping,
sheltering, or harboring a dangerous animal in the City, the animal control
officer shall order the person named in the complaint to safely remove such
animal from the City or destroy the animal, within three days of the receipt of
such order. Such order shall be contained in a notice to remove the dangerous
animal, which notice shall be given in writing to the person keeping,
sheltering, or harboring the dangerous animal, and shall be served personally
or by certified mail. Such order and notice to remove the dangerous animal
shall not be required where such dangerous animal has previously caused serious
physical harm or death to any person, in which case the animal control officer
shall cause the animal to be immediately seized and impounded or killed if
seizure and impoundment are not possible without risk of serious physical harm
or death to any person.
3.   The order to remove a dangerous animal issued by the animal control
officer may be appealed to the Council. In order to appeal such order, written
notice of appeal must be filed with the Clerk within three days after receipt
of the order contained in the notice to remove the dangerous animal. Failure to
file such written notice of appeal shall constitute a waiver of the right to
appeal the order of the animal control officer.
4.   The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for such appeal and shall be
delivered personally or by certified mail to the Clerk. The hearing of such
appeal shall be scheduled within seven days of the receipt of the notice of
appeal. After such hearing, the Council may affirm or reverse the order of the
animal control officer. Such determination shall be contained in a written
decision and shall be filed with the Clerk within three days after the hearing
or any continued session thereof.
5.   If the Council affirms the action of the animal control officer, the
Council shall order in its written decision that the person owning, sheltering,
harboring or keeping such dangerous animal remove such animal from the City or
destroy it. The decision and order shall immediately be served upon the person
against whom rendered in the same manner as the notice of removal. If the
original order of the animal control officer is not appealed and is not
complied with within three days or the order of the Council after appeal is not
complied with within three days of its issuance, the animal control officer is
authorized to seize and impound such dangerous animal. An animal so seized
shall be impounded for a period of seven days. If at the end of the impoundment
period, the person against whom the decision and order of the Council was
issued has not petitioned the District Court for a review of said order, the
City shall cause the animal to be disposed of by sale or destroy such animal in
a humane manner. Failure to comply with an order of the City issued pursuant
hereto constitutes a misdemeanor offense.
57.04   KEEPING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No person shall keep, shelter or harbor for any reason within the City a
vicious animal except in the following circumstances:
1.   Animals under the control of a law enforcement or military agency.
2.   The keeping of guard dogs; however, guard dogs must be kept within a
structure or fixed enclosure at all times, and any guard dog found at large may
be processed as a vicious animal pursuant to the provisions of Section
57.05. Any premises guarded by a guard dog shall be prominently posted with a
sign containing the wording “Guard Dog,” “Vicious Dog” or words of similar
import, and the owner of such premises shall inform the County Sheriff that a
guard dog is on duty at said premises.
57.05   SEIZURE, IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION OF VICIOUS ANIMALS.
1.   The animal control officer or designee, in his or her discretion or upon
receipt of a complaint alleging that a particular animal is a vicious animal,
may initiate proceedings to declare such animal a vicious animal. A hearing on
the matter shall be conducted by the Council. The person owning, keeping,
sheltering or harboring the animal in question shall be given not less than 72
hours’ written notice of the time and place of said hearing. Said notice shall
set forth the description of the animal in question and the basis for the
allegation of viciousness. The notice shall also state that if the animal is
determined to be vicious, the owner will be required to remove it from the City
or allow it to be destroyed. The notice shall be served upon any adult residing
at the premises where the animal is located, or may be posted on those premises
if no adult is present to accept service.
2.   If, after hearing, the Council determines that an animal is vicious, the
Council shall order the person owning, sheltering, or harboring or keeping the
animal to remove it from the City, or to cause it to be destroyed in a humane
manner. The order shall immediately be served upon the person against whom
issued in the same manner as the notice of hearing. If the order is not
complied with within three days of its issuance, the animal control officer is
authorized to seize and impound the animal. An animal so seized shall be
impounded for a period of seven days. If at the end of the impoundment period,
the person against whom the order of the Council was issued has not petitioned
the District Court for a review of such order, the animal control officer shall
cause the animal to be destroyed.
3.   Failure to comply with an order of the Council issued pursuant hereto
shall constitute a misdemeanor offense.
4.   Any animal found at large which displays vicious tendencies may be
processed as a vicious animal pursuant to the foregoing, unless the animal is
so vicious that it cannot be safely be apprehended, in which case the animal
control officer may immediately destroy it or unless its ownership is not
ascertainable, in which case the animal control officer may destroy it after
three days of impoundment.
5.   Any animal which is alleged to be vicious and which is under impoundment
or quarantine at the animal shelter shall not be released to the owner, but
shall continue to be held at the expense of the owner pending the outcome of
the hearing. All costs of such impoundment or quarantine shall be paid by the
owner if the animal is determined to be vicious. If the animal is not
determined to be vicious, such impoundment or quarantine shall be paid by the
City.
CHAPTER 60
ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE.
 
60.01 Title                          60.05 Reports of Traffic Accidents
60.02 Definitions                    60.06 Peace Officer’s Authority
60.03 Administration and Enforcement 60.07 Obedience to Peace Officers
60.04 Power to Direct Traffic        60.08 Parades Regulated
 
60.01   TITLE.
Chapters
60 through
70 of this Code of Ordinances may be known and cited as the “Holstein Traffic
Code,” and are referred to herein as the “Traffic Code.”
60.02   DEFINITIONS.
Where words and phrases used in the Traffic Code are defined by State law, such
definitions apply to their use in said Traffic Code and are adopted by
reference. Those definitions so adopted that need further definition or are
reiterated, and other words and phrases used herein, have the following
meanings:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.1)
1.   “Business District” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway when 50 percent or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300
feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business.
2.   “Park” or “parking” means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
3.   “Peace officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
4.   “Residence district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business, suburban or school district, where 40
percent or more of the frontage on such a highway for a distance of 300 feet or
more is occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use for
business.
5.   “School district” means the territory contiguous to and including a
highway for a distance of 200 feet in either direction from a school house.
6.   “Stand” or “standing” means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving
or discharging passengers.
7.   “Stop” means when required, the complete cessation of movement.
8.   “Stop” or “stopping” means when prohibited, any halting of a vehicle, even
momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
9.   “Suburban district” means all other parts of the City not included in the
business, school or residence districts.
10.   “Traffic control device” means all signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, lawfully placed or erected for the purpose
of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
11.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or alley.
60.03   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
Provisions of this Traffic Code and State law relating to motor vehicles and
law of the road are enforced by the peace officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13 [4])
60.04   POWER TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
A peace officer, and, in the absence of a peace officer, any officer of the
Fire Department when at the scene of a fire, is authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws. In the event
of an emergency, traffic may be directed as conditions require, notwithstanding
the provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 102.4 and 321.236[2])
60.05   REPORTS OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident within the limits of the City
shall file a report as and when required by the Iowa Department of
Transportation. A copy of this report shall be filed with the City for the
confidential use of peace officers and shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 321.271 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.273)
60.06   PEACE OFFICER’S AUTHORITY.
A peace officer is authorized to stop a vehicle to require exhibition of the
driver’s license of the driver, to serve a summons or memorandum of traffic
violation, to inspect the condition of the vehicle, to inspect the vehicle with
reference to size, weight, cargo, log book, bills of lading or other manifest
of employment, tires and safety equipment, or to inspect the registration
certificate, the compensation certificate, travel order, or permit of such
vehicle. A peace officer having probable cause to stop a vehicle may require
exhibition of the proof of financial liability coverage card issued for the
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.492)
60.07   OBEDIENCE TO PEACE OFFICERS.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.229)
60.08   PARADES REGULATED.
No person shall conduct or cause any parade on any street except as provided
herein:
1.   Parade Defined. “Parade” means any march or procession of persons or
vehicles organized for marching or moving on the streets in an organized
fashion or manner or any march or procession of persons or vehicles represented
or advertised to the public as a parade.
2.   Permit Required. No parade shall be conducted without first obtaining a
written permit from the Council. Such permit shall state the time and date for
the parade to be held and the streets or general route therefor. Such written
permit granted to the person organizing or sponsoring the parade shall be
permission for all participants therein to parade when such participants have
been invited by the permittee to participate therein. No fee shall be required
for such permit.
3.   Parade Not a Street Obstruction. Any parade for which a permit has been
issued as herein required, and the persons lawfully participating therein,
shall not be deemed an obstruction of the streets notwithstanding the
provisions of any other ordinance to the contrary.
4.   Control by Police and Firefighters. Persons participating in any parade
shall at all times be subject to the lawful orders and directions in the
performance of their duties of law enforcement personnel and members of the
Fire Department.
CHAPTER 61
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
 
61.01 Installation  61.04 Standards
61.02 Crosswalks    61.05 Compliance
61.03 Traffic Lanes
 
61.01   INSTALLATION.
The Mayor shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control devices when
and as required under this Traffic Code or under State law or emergency or
temporary traffic control devices for the duration of an emergency or temporary
condition as traffic conditions may require to regulate, guide or warn traffic.
The Mayor shall keep a record of all such traffic control devices.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.02   CROSSWALKS.
The Mayor is hereby authorized, subject to approval of the Council by
resolution, to designate and maintain crosswalks by appropriate traffic control
devices at intersections where, due to traffic conditions, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the street or roadway, and at such other places
as traffic conditions require.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.03   TRAFFIC LANES.
The Mayor is hereby authorized to mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at
such places as traffic conditions require, consistent with the traffic code of
the City. Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it is unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4] and 321.255)
61.04   STANDARDS.
Traffic control devices shall comply with standards established by The Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
61.05   COMPLIANCE.
No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official traffic
control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
at the time otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under Section 321.231 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
CHAPTER 62
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
 
62.01 Violation of Regulations 62.05 Quiet Zones
62.02 Play Streets Designated  62.06 Obstructing View at Intersections
62.03 Vehicles on Sidewalks    62.07 Engine Brakes and Compression Brakes
62.04 Clinging to Vehicle
 
62.01   VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
Any person who willfully fails or refuses to comply with any lawful order of a
peace officer or direction of a Fire Department officer during a fire, or who
fails to abide by the applicable provisions of the following Iowa statutory
laws relating to motor vehicles and the statutory law of the road is in
violation of this section. These sections of the Code of Iowa are adopted by
reference and are as follows:
1.   Section 321.17 – Misdemeanor to violate registration provisions.
2.   Section 321.32 – Registration card, carried and exhibited; exception.
3.   Section 321.37 – Display of plates.
4.   Section 321.38 – Plates, method of attaching, imitations prohibited.
5.   Section 321.57 – Operation under special plates.
6.   Section 321.67 – Certificate of title must be executed.
7.   Section 321.78 – Injuring or tampering with vehicle.
8.   Section 321.79 – Intent to injure.
9.   Section 321.91 – Limitation on liability; penalty for abandonment.
10.   Section 321.98 – Operation without registration.
11.   Section 321.99 – Fraudulent use of registration.
12.   Section 321.104 – Penal offenses against title law.
13.   Section 321.115 – Antique vehicles; model year plates permitted.
14.   Section 321.174 – Operators licensed; operation of commercial vehicles.
15.   Section 321.174A – Operation of motor vehicle with expired license.
16.   Section 321.180 – Instruction permits, commercial learner’s permits, and
chauffeur’s instruction permits.
17.   Section 321.180B – Graduated driver’s licenses for persons aged fourteen
through seventeen.
18.   Section 321.193 – Restrictions on licenses; penalty.
19.   Section 321.194 – Special minors’ licenses.
20.   Section 321.208A – Operation in violation of out-of-service order;
penalties.
21.   Section 321.216 – Unlawful use of license and nonoperator’s
identification card; penalty.
22.   Section 321.216B – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain alcohol.
23.   Section 321.216C – Use of driver’s license or nonoperator’s
identification card by underage person to obtain tobacco, tobacco products
alternative nicotine products, vapor products, or cigarettes.
24.   Section 321.218 – Operating without valid driver’s license or when
disqualified; penalties.
25.   Section 321.219 – Permitting unauthorized minor to drive.
26.   Section 321.220 – Permitting unauthorized person to drive.
27.   Section 321.221 – Employing unlicensed chauffeur.
28.   Section 321.222 – Renting motor vehicle to another.
29.   Section 321.223 – Driver’s license inspection for motor vehicle rental.
30.   Section 321.224 – Record kept.
31.   Section 321.232 – Speed detection jamming devices; penalty.
32.   Section 321.234A – All-terrain vehicles, highway use.
33.   Section 321.235A – Electric personal assistive mobility devices.
34.   Section 321.235B – Low-speed electric bicycles.
35.   Section 321.247 – Golf cart operation on City streets.
36.   Section 321.257 – Official traffic control signal.
37.   Section 321.259 – Unauthorized signs, signals or markings.
38.   Section 321.260 – Interference with devices, signs, or signals; unlawful
possession; traffic signal preemption devices.
39.   Section 321.262 – Leaving scene of traffic accident prohibited; vehicle
damage only; removal of vehicles.
40.   Section 321.263 – Information and aid; leaving scene of personal injury
accident.
41.   Section 321.264 – Striking unattended vehicle.
42.   Section 321.265 – Striking fixtures upon a highway.
43.   Section 321.266 – Reporting accidents.
44.   Section 321.275 – Operation of motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
45.   Section 321.276 – Use of electronic communication device while driving;
text-messaging.
46.   Section 321.277 – Reckless driving.
47.   Section 321.277A – Careless driving.
48.   Section 321.278 – Drag racing prohibited.
49.   Section 321.281 – Actions against bicyclists.
50.   Section 321.284 – Open container in motor vehicles, drivers.
51.   Section 321.284A – Open container in motor vehicles, passengers.
52.   Section 321.288 – Control of vehicle; reduced speed.
53.   Section 321.295 – Limitation on bridge or elevated structures.
54.   Section 321.297 – Driving on right-hand side of roadways; exceptions.
55.   Section 321.298 – Meeting and turning to right.
56.   Section 321.299 – Overtaking a vehicle.
57.   Section 321.302 – Overtaking and passing.
58.   Section 321.303 – Limitations on overtaking on the left.
59.   Section 321.304 – Prohibited passing.
60.   Section 321.306 – Roadways laned for traffic.
61.   Section 321.307 – Following too closely.
62.   Section 321.309 – Towing.
63.   Section 321.310 – Towing four-wheel trailers.
64.   Section 321.312 – Turning on curve or crest of grade.
65.   Section 321.313 – Starting parked vehicle.
66.   Section 321.314 – When signal required.
67.   Section 321.315 – Signal continuous.
68.   Section 321.316 – Stopping.
69.   Section 321.317 – Signals by hand and arm or signal device.
70.   Section 321.318 – Method of giving hand and arm signals.
71.   Section 321.319 – Entering intersections from different highways.
72.   Section 321.320 – Left turns; yielding.
73.   Section 321.321 – Entering through highways.
74.   Section 321.322 – Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection.
75.   Section 321.323 – Moving vehicle backward on highway.
76.   Section 321.323A – Approaching certain stationary vehicles.
77.   Section 321.324 – Operation on approach of emergency vehicles.
78.   Section 321.324A – Funeral processions.
79.   Section 321.329 – Duty of driver; pedestrians crossing or working on
highways.
80.   Section 321.330 – Use of crosswalks.
81.   Section 321.332 – White canes restricted to blind persons.
82.   Section 321.333 – Duty of drivers.
83.   Section 321.340 – Driving through safety zone.
84.   Section 321.341 – Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad
train or railroad track equipment.
85.   Section 321.342 – Stop at certain railroad crossings; posting warning.
86.   Section 321.343 – Certain vehicles must stop.
87.   Section 321.344 – Heavy equipment at crossing.
88.   Section 321.344B – Immediate safety threat; penalty.
89.   Section 321.354 – Stopping on traveled way.
90.   Section 321.359 – Moving other vehicle.
91.   Section 321.362 – Unattended motor vehicle.
92.   Section 321.363 – Obstruction to driver’s view.
93.   Section 321.364 – Preventing contamination of food by hazardous material.
94.   Section 321.365 – Coasting prohibited.
95.   Section 321.366 – Acts prohibited on fully-controlled access facilities.
96.   Section 321.367 – Following fire apparatus.
97.   Section 321.368 – Crossing fire hose.
98.   Section 321.369 – Putting debris on highway.
99.   Section 321.370 – Removing injurious material.
100.   Section 321.371 – Clearing up wrecks.
101.   Section 321.372 – Discharging pupils, stopping requirements; penalties.
102.   Section 321.381 – Movement of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles.
103.   Section 321.381A – Operation of low-speed vehicles.
104.   Section 321.382 – Upgrade pulls; minimum speed.
105.   Section 321.383 – Exceptions; slow vehicles identified.
106.   Section 321.384 – When lighted lamps required.
107.   Section 321.385 – Head lamps on motor vehicles.
108.   Section 321.386 – Head lamps on motorcycles and motorized bicycles.
109.   Section 321.387 – Rear lamps.
110.   Section 321.388 – Illuminating plates.
111.   Section 321.389 – Reflector requirement.
112.   Section 321.390 – Reflector requirements.
113.   Section 321.392 – Clearance and identification lights.
114.   Section 321.393 – Color and mounting.
115.   Section 321.394 – Lamp or flag on projecting load.
116.   Section 321.395 – Lamps on parked vehicles.
117.   Section 321.398 – Lamps on other vehicles and equipment.
118.   Section 321.402 – Spot lamps.
119.   Section 321.403 – Auxiliary driving lamps.
120.   Section 321.404 – Signal lamps and signal devices.
121.   Section 321.404A – Light-restricting devices prohibited.
122.   Section 321.405 – Self-illumination.
123.   Section 321.408 – Back-up lamps.
124.   Section 321.409 – Mandatory lighting equipment.
125.   Section 321.415 – Required usage of lighting devices.
126.   Section 321.417 – Single-beam road-lighting equipment.
127.   Section 321.418 – Alternate road-lighting equipment.
128.   Section 321.419 – Number of driving lamps required or permitted.
129.   Section 321.420 – Number of lamps lighted.
130.   Section 321.421 – Special restrictions on lamps.
131.   Section 321.422 – Red light in front, rear lights.
132.   Section 321.423 – Flashing lights.
133.   Section 321.430 – Brake, hitch, and control requirements.
134.   Section 321.431 – Performance ability.
135.   Section 321.432 – Horns and warning devices.
136.   Section 321.433 – Sirens, whistles, and bells prohibited.
137.   Section 321.434 – Bicycle sirens or whistles.
138.   Section 321.436 – Mufflers, prevention of noise.
139.   Section 321.437 – Mirrors.
140.   Section 321.438 – Windshields and windows.
141.   Section 321.439 – Windshield wipers.
142.   Section 321.440 – Restrictions as to tire equipment.
143.   Section 321.441 – Metal tires prohibited.
144.   Section 321.442 – Projections on wheels.
145.   Section 321.444 – Safety glass.
146.   Section 321.445 – Safety belts and safety harnesses; use required.
147.   Section 321.446 – Child restraint devices.
148.   Section 321.449 – Motor carrier safety rules.
149.   Section 321.449A – Rail crew transport drivers.
150.   Section 321.449B – Texting or using a mobile telephone while operating a
commercial motor vehicle.
151.   Section 321.450 – Hazardous materials transportation regulations.
152.   Section 321.454 – Width of vehicles.
153.   Section 321.455 – Projecting loads on passenger vehicles.
154.   Section 321.456 – Height of vehicles.
155.   Section 321.457 – Maximum length.
156.   Section 321.458 – Loading beyond front.
157.   Section 321.460 – Spilling loads on highways.
158.   Section 321.461 – Trailers and towed vehicles.
159.   Section 321.462 – Drawbars and safety chains.
160.   Section 321.463 – Maximum gross weight; exceptions, penalties.
161.   Section 321.465 – Weighing vehicles and removal of excess.
162.   Section 321.466 – Increased loading capacity; reregistration.
62.02   PLAY STREETS DESIGNATED.
The Mayor shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a play
street and cause to be placed appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same. Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall
drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of
vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and
then any said driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such
street or portion thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.255)
62.03   VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except
at a driveway.
62.04   CLINGING TO VEHICLE.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle on the streets of the City unless all
passengers of said vehicle are inside the vehicle in the place intended for
their accommodation. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
in-line skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
62.05   QUIET ZONES.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
62.06   OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS.
It is unlawful to allow any tree, hedge, billboard or other object to obstruct
the view of an intersection by preventing persons from having a clear view of
traffic approaching the intersection from cross streets. Any such obstruction
is deemed a nuisance and in addition to the standard penalty may be abated in
the manner provided by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.
62.07   ENGINE BRAKES AND COMPRESSION BRAKES.
It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate (or for any
person to cause to be used or operated) within the City any engine brake,
compression brake or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking
or deceleration of any vehicle that results in excessive loud, unusual, or
explosive noise from such vehicle. Violations of this section are considered to
be non-moving violations. A violation of this section shall subject the driver
and/or owner to a fine not to exceed $100.00.
CHAPTER 63
SPEED REGULATIONS
 
63.01 General                            63.04 Special Speed Zones
63.02 State Code Speed Limits            63.05 Minimum Speed
63.03 Parks, Cemeteries and Parking Lots
 
63.01   GENERAL.
Every driver of a motor vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive a vehicle on any
street at a speed greater than will permit said driver to bring it to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead, such driver having the right to
assume, however, that all persons using said street will observe the law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.285)
63.02   STATE CODE SPEED LIMITS.
The following speed limits are established in Section 321.285 of the Code of
Iowa and any speed in excess thereof is unlawful unless specifically designated
otherwise in this chapter as a special speed zone.
1.   Business District – 20 miles per hour.
2.   Residence or School District – 25 miles per hour.
3.   Suburban District – 45 miles per hour.
63.03   PARKS, CEMETERIES AND PARKING LOTS.
A speed in excess of 15 miles per hour in any public park, cemetery or parking
lot, unless specifically designated otherwise in this chapter, is unlawful.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[5])
63.04   SPECIAL SPEED ZONES.
In accordance with requirements of the Iowa Department of Transportation, or
whenever the Council shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that any speed limit listed in Section
63.02 is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found
to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of the City street
system, the Council shall determine and adopt by ordinance such higher or lower
speed limit as it deems reasonable and safe at such location. The following
special speed zones have been established:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.290)
1.   Special 25 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 25 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   Main Street/U.S. Highway No. 59, from a point situated 150 feet north
of the intersection of Main Street and Park Street to a point situated 50 feet
north of the intersection of Main Street and Railroad Street.
2.   Special 35 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 35 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   Main Street/U.S. Highway No. 59, from a point situated 600 feet south
of the intersection of Main Street and Second Street to a point situated 150
feet north of the intersection of Main Street and Park Street;
   B.   Main Street/U.S. Highway No. 59, from a point situated 50 feet north of
the intersection of Main Street and Railroad Street to U.S. Highway No. 59
Station Marker No. 565.
3.   Special 40 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 40 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   Main Street/U.S. Highway No. 59, from the intersection of Main Street/
U.S. Highway No. 59 (Main Street) to a point situated 600 feet south of the
intersection of Main Street and South Street.
4.   Special 45 MPH Speed Zones. A speed in excess of 45 miles per hour is
unlawful on any of the following designated streets or parts thereof.
   A.   Main Street/U.S. Highway No. 59, from U.S. Highway No. 59 Station
Marker No. 565 to U.S. Highway No. 59 Station Marker No. 589.
63.05   MINIMUM SPEED.
A person shall not drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation, or in compliance with law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.294)
CHAPTER 64
TURNING REGULATIONS
 
64.01 Turning at Intersections 64.03 Left Turn for Parking
64.02 U-Turns
 
64.01   TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.311)
1.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
2.   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half
of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to depart from the intersection
to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
3.   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street shall
be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection. A left turn from a one-way street into a two-way street shall be
made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street being entered upon
leaving the intersection.
The Mayor may cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent
to intersections and thereby require and direct, as traffic conditions require,
that a different course from that specified above be traveled by vehicles
turning at intersections, and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed, no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
64.02   U-TURNS.
It is unlawful for a driver to make a U-turn except at an intersection,
however, U-turns are prohibited within the business district, at the following
designated intersections and at intersections where there are automatic traffic
signals.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[9])
1.   At the intersection of U.S. Highway No. 59 and any street within the City.
64.03   LEFT TURN FOR PARKING.
No person shall make a left hand turn, crossing the centerline of the street,
for the purpose of parking on said street.
CHAPTER 65
STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED
 
65.01 Through Streets – Sto65.05 Stop Before Crossing Sidewalk
65.02 Stop Required          65.06 Stop When Traffic Is Obstructed
65.03 Yield Required         65.07 Yield to Pedestrians in Crosswalks
65.04 School Stops           65.08 Official Traffic Controls
 
65.01   THROUGH STREETS – STOP.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop, unless a yield is permitted by this
chapter, before entering an intersection with the following designated through
streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Main Street (U.S. Highway No. 59), within the City.
65.02   STOP REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall stop in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Kiel Street. Vehicles traveling on Kiel Street shall stop at Second
Street.
2.   Hamburg Street. Vehicles traveling on Hamburg Street shall stop at Second
Street.
3.   Albers Street. Vehicles shall stop at the intersection of Albers Street
and Second Street.
4.   Kiel Street. Vehicles traveling on Kiel Street shall stop at the
intersection of Maple Street.
5.   Kastner Drive. Vehicles shall stop at the intersection of Kastner Drive
and Lamp-Kastner Drive.
6.   Kastner Drive. Vehicles shall stop at the intersection of Kastner Drive
and Elm Street.
7.   Harrison Street. Vehicles shall stop at the intersection of Harrison
Street and Kiel Street.
8.   Mueller Street. Vehicles shall stop at the intersection of Mueller Street
and Davenport Street.
9.   Kastner Drive. Vehicles traveling south on Kastner Drive shall stop at
Kofmehl Drive.
10.   Kiel Street. Vehicles traveling on Kiel Street shall stop at Kofmehl
Drive.
11.   Kiel Street. Vehicles shall stop at the intersection of Kiel Street and
Elm Street.
12.   Davenport Street. Vehicles shall stop at the intersection of Davenport
Street and Second Street.
13.   Harrison Street. Vehicles traveling on Harrison Street shall stop at
Davenport Street.
14.   Kiel Street. Vehicles traveling on Kiel Street shall stop at Park Street.
15.   Kinder Lane. Vehicles shall stop at the intersection of Kinder Lane and
Second Street.
16.   North Lubeck. Vehicles shall stop at the intersection of North Lubeck and
County Road D-15.
17.   Hogrefe Drive. Vehicles shall stop at the intersection of Hogrefe Drive
and German Avenue.
65.03   YIELD REQUIRED.
Every driver of a vehicle shall yield in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.345)
1.   Lubeck Street. Vehicles traveling on Lubeck Street shall yield at Second
Street.
2.   Altona Street. Vehicles traveling on Altona Street shall yield at Second
Street.
3.   Lena Street. Vehicles traveling on Lena Street shall yield at Second
Street.
4.   Hanover Street. Vehicles traveling south on Hanover Street shall yield at
Second Street.
5.   Altona Street. Vehicles traveling on Altona Street shall yield at Harrison
Street.
6.   Lubeck Street. Vehicles traveling on Lubeck Street shall yield at Harrison
Street.
7.   First Street. Vehicles traveling west on First Street shall yield at Lena
Street.
65.04   SCHOOL STOPS.
At the following school crossing zones every driver of a vehicle approaching
said zone shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at a point 10 feet from the
approach side of the crosswalk marked by an authorized school stop sign and
thereafter proceed in a careful and prudent manner until the vehicle shall have
passed through such school crossing zone.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.249)
1.   Maple Street. Vehicles traveling on Maple Street shall stop at Davenport
Street.
2.   Altona Street. Vehicles traveling on Altona Street shall stop at Maple
Street.
3.   Altona Street. Vehicles traveling on Altona Street shall stop at Park
Street.
4.   Maple Street. Vehicles traveling on Maple Street shall stop at Lubeck
Street.
5.   Park Street. Vehicles traveling on Park Street shall stop at Lubeck
Street.
6.   Park Street. Vehicles traveling on Park Street shall stop at Davenport
Street.
7.   Davenport Street. Vehicles traveling on Davenport Street shall stop at
Maple Street.
65.05   STOP BEFORE CROSSING SIDEWALK.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a private roadway, alley, driveway, or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk
area and thereafter shall proceed into the sidewalk area only when able to do
so without danger to pedestrian traffic and shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicular traffic on the street into which the vehicle is entering.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.353)
65.06   STOP WHEN TRAFFIC IS OBSTRUCTED.
Notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed, no driver
shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient
space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the
vehicle.
65.07   YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS IN CROSSWALKS.
Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to
yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or
within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.327)
65.08   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROLS.
Every driver shall observe and comply with the directions provided by official
traffic control signals at the following intersections:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.256)
1.   Intersection of Main Street and Second Street.
CHAPTER 66
LOAD AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
 
66.01 Temporary Embargo                  66.03 Load Limits Upon Certain Streets
66.02 Permits for Excess Size and Weight 66.04 Load Limits on Bridges
 
66.01   TEMPORARY EMBARGO.
If the Council declares an embargo when it appears by reason of deterioration,
rain, snow or other climatic conditions that certain streets will be seriously
damaged or destroyed by vehicles weighing in excess of an amount specified by
the signs, no such vehicles shall be operated on streets so designated by such
signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471 and 472)
66.02   PERMITS FOR EXCESS SIZE AND WEIGHT.
The Mayor may, upon application and good cause being shown, issue a special
permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles of a size or weight or load exceeding the maximum
specified by State law or the City over those streets or bridges named in the
permit which are under the jurisdiction of the City and for which the City is
responsible for maintenance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 321E.1)
66.03   LOAD LIMITS UPON CERTAIN STREETS.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified on such signs at
any time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.473 and 475)
- NONE -
66.04   LOAD LIMITS ON BRIDGES.
Where it has been determined that any City bridge has a capacity less than the
maximum permitted on the streets of the City, or on the street serving the
bridge, the Mayor may cause to be posted and maintained signs on said bridge
and at suitable distances ahead of the entrances thereof to warn drivers of
such maximum load limits, and no person shall drive a vehicle weighing, loaded
or unloaded, upon said bridge in excess of such posted limit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.471)
CHAPTER 67
PEDESTRIANS
 
67.01 Walking in Street 67.03 Pedestrian Crossing
67.02 Hitchhiking       67.04 Use of Sidewalks
 
67.01   WALKING IN STREET.
Pedestrians shall at all times when walking on or along a street, walk on the
left side of the street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.326)
67.02   HITCHHIKING.
No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.331)
67.03   PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.328)
67.04   USE OF SIDEWALKS.
Where sidewalks are provided it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along
and upon an adjacent street.
CHAPTER 68
ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
68.01   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC REQUIRED.
Upon the following streets and alleys vehicular traffic, other than permitted
cross traffic, shall move only in the indicated direction when appropriate
signs are in place.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [4])
1.   Alley in Block 8 shall be southbound only from Second Street to East Maple
Street.
CHAPTER 69
PARKING REGULATIONS
 
69.01 Park Adjacent to Curb                69.08 No Parking Zones
69.02 Parking on One-Way Streets           69.09 All Night Parking Prohibited
69.03 Angle Parking                        69.10 Truck Parking Limited
69.04 Manner of Angle Parking              69.11 Parking Limited to One Hour
69.05 Parking for Certain Purposes Illegal 69.12 Snow Removal
69.06 Parking Prohibited                   69.13 Controlled Access Facilities
69.07 Persons With Disabilities Parking    69.14 Parking in Yards
 
69.01   PARK ADJACENT TO CURB.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in the case of angle parking and
vehicles parked on the left-hand side of one-way streets.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.02   PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle on the left-hand side of a one-way
street other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within
18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as hereinafter provided in
the case of angle parking.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.03   ANGLE PARKING.
Angle or diagonal parking is permitted only in the following locations:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
1.   Second Street, on both sides, from Hamburg Street to Kiel Street.
2.   Second Street, on the south side, from Altona Street to Lubeck Street.
69.04   MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
Upon those streets or portions of streets which have been signed or marked for
angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at an angle
to the curb or edge of the roadway or in the center of the roadway as indicated
by such signs and markings. No part of any vehicle, or the load thereon, when
parked within a diagonal parking district, shall extend into the roadway more
than a distance of 16 feet when measured at right angles to the adjacent curb
or edge of roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.361)
69.05   PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES ILLEGAL.
No person shall park a vehicle upon public property for more than 72 hours,
unless otherwise limited under the provisions of this chapter, or for any of
the following principal purposes:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
1.   Sale. Displaying such vehicle for sale;
2.   Repairing. For lubricating, repairing or for commercial washing of such
vehicle except such repairs as are necessitated by an emergency;
3.   Advertising. Displaying advertising;
4.   Merchandise Sales. Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a duly
established market place or when so authorized or licensed under this Code of
Ordinances.
69.06   PARKING PROHIBITED.
No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
1.   Crosswalk. On a crosswalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [5])
2.   Center Parkway. On the center parkway or dividing area of any divided
street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
3.   Mailboxes. Within 20 feet on either side of a mailbox which is so placed
and so equipped as to permit the depositing of mail from vehicles on the
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
4.   Sidewalks. On or across a sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [1])
5.   Driveway. In front of a public or private driveway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [2])
6.   Intersection. Within an intersection or within 10 feet of an intersection
of any street or alley.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [3])
7.   Fire Hydrant. Within five feet of a fire hydrant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [4])
8.   Stop Sign or Signal. Within 10 feet upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop or yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [6])
9.   Railroad Crossing. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, except when parked parallel with such rail and not exhibiting a red
light.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [8])
10.   Fire Station. Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of said entrance when properly sign posted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [9])
11.   Excavations. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction
when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [10])
12.   Double Parking. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at
the edge or curb of a street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [11])
13.   Hazardous Locations. When, because of restricted visibility or when
standing or parked vehicles would constitute a hazard to moving traffic, or
when other traffic conditions require, the Council may cause curbs to be
painted with a yellow color and erect no parking or standing signs.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358 [13])
14.   Churches, Nursing Homes and Other Buildings. A space of 50 feet is hereby
reserved at the side of the street in front of any theatre, auditorium, hotel
having more than 25 sleeping rooms, hospital, nursing home, taxicab stand, bus
depot, church, or other building where large assemblages of people are being
held, within which space, when clearly marked as such, no motor vehicle shall
be left standing, parked or stopped except in taking on or discharging
passengers or freight, and then only for such length of time as is necessary
for such purpose.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.360)
15.   Alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the width
of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property. The provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to a vehicle parked in any alley which is 18 feet
wide or less; provided said vehicle is parked to deliver goods or services.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
16.   Ramps. In front of a curb cut or ramp which is located on public or
private property in a manner which blocks access to the curb cut or ramp.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.358[15])
17.   In More Than One Space. In any designated parking space so that any part
of the vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
markings designating such space.
69.07   PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
The following regulations shall apply to the establishment and use of persons
with disabilities parking spaces:
1.   Establishment. Persons with disabilities parking spaces shall be
established and designated in accordance with Chapter 321L of the Code of Iowa
and Iowa Administrative Code, 661-18. No unauthorized person shall establish
any on-street persons with disabilities parking space without first obtaining
Council approval.
2.   Improper Use. The following uses of a persons with disabilities parking
space, located on either public or private property, constitute improper use of
a persons with disabilities parking permit, which is a violation of this Code
of Ordinances:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321L.4 [2])
   A.   Use by an operator of a vehicle not displaying a persons with
disabilities parking permit;
   B.   Use by an operator of a vehicle displaying a persons with disabilities
parking permit but not being used by a person issued a permit or being
transported in accordance with Section 321L.2[1b] of the Code of Iowa;
   C.   Use by a vehicle in violation of the rules adopted under Section 321L.8
of the Code of Iowa.
3.   Wheelchair Parking Cones. No person shall use or interfere with a
wheelchair parking cone in violation of the following:
   A.   A person issued a persons with disabilities parking permit must comply
with the requirements of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa when utilizing
a wheelchair parking cone.
   B.   A person shall not interfere with a wheelchair parking cone which is
properly placed under the provisions of Section 321L.2A[1] of the Code of Iowa.
69.08   NO PARKING ZONES.
No one shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of the following specifically
designated no parking zones except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer or traffic
control signal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
1.   Kiel Street, on both sides, from First Street to Second Street.
2.   Kiel Street, on the east side, from Second Street south a distance of 180
feet.
3.   Second Street, on the north side, from Altona Street to Lubeck Street.
4.   Maple Street, on the north side, from Kiel Street to Altona Street.
5.   Maple Street, on both sides, from a point on the west side of the alley
which lies between Main Street and Kiel Street to the east side of the alley
which lies between Main Street and Hamburg Street.
6.   Minnesota Street, on the east side, from a point starting at the south
side of the intersection of Minnesota Street and Harrison Street, running
north, to the north side of the alley lying north of Park Street.
7.   South Hamburg Street, on the west side, starting at West Second Street and
South Hamburg Street running south 120 feet.
8.   Indorf Ave and Hogrefe Dr – Fouts 1st Addition.
9.   Kofmehl Drive on north side from Hwy 59 to Kastner Drive from May 1st to
September 1st.
10.   South Kiel St on east side from Kofmehl Drive north for a distance of 300
feet from May 1st to September 1st.
69.09   ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
No person, except physicians or other persons on emergency calls, shall park a
vehicle on any street within the Business District for a period of time longer
than 30 minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. of any day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
69.10   TRUCK PARKING LIMITED.
No person shall park a motor truck, semi-trailer, or other motor vehicle with
trailer attached in violation of the following regulations. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to pickup, light delivery or panel delivery
trucks.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Business District. Excepting only when such vehicles are actually engaged
in the delivery or receiving of merchandise or cargo within the prohibited
area, no person shall park or leave unattended such vehicle, on any streets in
the Business District. When actually receiving or delivering merchandise or
cargo such vehicle shall be stopped or parked in a manner which will not
interfere with other traffic.
2.   Limited Time. No such vehicle shall be left unattended or parked upon any
street or alley for a period of time longer than two hours, on any day.
69.11   PARKING LIMITED TO ONE HOUR.
It is unlawful to park any vehicle for a continuous period of more than two
hours between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on each weekday, including
Saturday, upon the following designated streets:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1])
1.   Main Street, from Maple Street to First Street.
2.   Second Street, from Hamburg Street to Kiel Street.
69.12   SNOW REMOVAL.
No person shall park, abandon or leave unattended any vehicle on any public
street, alley, or City-owned off-street parking area during the period of time
from November 1 to April 1 between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
69.13   CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
Parking restrictions on controlled access facilities are as specified in
Chapter 140 of this Code of Ordinances.
69.14   PARKING ON FRONT, SIDE, AND REAR YARDS.
The regulations contained in this section apply to all residential zoned
districts and residential real properties, regardless of zone, within the city.
1.   Definitions. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them as follows, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning. All other words and terms, not
enumerated in Subsection 1 of this section, shall be defined as provided in the
Zoning Ordinance, any amendments thereto or any future zoning ordinances
enacted by the City.
   A.   “Driveway” means an improved surface consisting of concrete, asphalt,
seal coat, solid bricks, gravel, or crushed stone, constructed and maintained
in quality, quantity and size to prevent the creation of ruts in, or
deterioration or damage to, the driveway or soil beneath from the operation or
parking of vehicles thereon, located within a yard and connected to an approved
curb drop or entrance.
   B.   “Driveway extension” means that portion of a driveway which is in
excess of the allotted driveway width, which is contiguous to a driveway, which
shall lead to a curb drop, and which consists of concrete, asphalt, seal coat,
solid bricks, gravel or crushed stone, constructed and maintained in quality,
quantity, and size to prevent the creation of ruts in, or deterioration or
damage to, the driveway extension or soil beneath from the operation or parking
of vehicles thereon.
   C.   “Front yard” for a corner lot means any yard of a corner lot adjacent
to a street. For any other lot, “front yard” means any yard adjacent to a
street, including the right-or-way.
   D.   “Temporary” or “Temporarily” means a period of time not to exceed 48
hours.
   E.   “Trailer”' means every vehicle without motor power designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle. Whenever
the term “trailer” is used in this section, it shall be construed to include
semi-trailers.
   F.   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, street, or
alley, and does not include any device designed to be moved solely by human
power.
2.   Parking on Front Yards. It shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle, recreational vehicle, machinery or equipment, or trailer in the front
yard of any residential lot, unless said property is parked completely upon a
driveway or driveway extension. However, this shall not apply to vehicles,
recreational vehicles, machinery or equipment, or trailers being used to move,
deliver and/or take articles to and from a yard or building or structure
located thereon or used in connection with providing a temporary service
thereon while in the active process of such uses.
3.   Parking on side and Rear Yards. It shall be unlawful for any person, to
park a vehicle, recreational vehicle, machinery or equipment, or trailer in the
side or rear yard of any residential lot unless it is on an improved surface
consisting of solid concrete, seal coat, asphalt, solid bricks, crushed stone
or gravel. Golf cart trailers are allowed in side and back yards.
4.   Maximum Vehicles. No more than four vehicles may be parked on a property,
unless approved by the City Administrator or designee.
5.   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the occasional parking on
the unimproved area of the front yard for special events, for vehicles and
trailers temporarily parked while actively servicing or maintaining the
property. Furthermore, provisions of this section do not apply to any vehicle,
recreational vehicle, machinery or equipment, or trailer parked:
   A.   Within a Structure. Within a garage or other enclosed structure; or
   B.   Salvage Yard. In an auto salvage yard or junkyard lawfully operated
within the City and fully surrounded by a fence of wood construction not less
than 71 inches in height which acts as a visual obstruction. Salvage materials
shall not exceed 72 inches in height. Any such auto salvage yard shall be
properly licensed as an authorized vehicle recycler as required by the Code of
Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.H)
6.   Any violation of this section, unless permitted by Section
69.02, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of residents and shall be
declared a nuisance within the meaning of Section 657.1 of the Code of Iowa.
Any person, corporation, or legal entity who is the owner, whether the legal or
equitable title holder, of property in violation of this section shall be prima
facie liable for said violation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec 364.12[3a]; Sec. 657.1)
CHAPTER 70
TRAFFIC CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
 
70.01 Arrest or Citation            70.04 Parking Violations: Vehicle
                                    Unattended
70.02 Scheduled Violations          70.05 Presumption in Reference to Illegal
                                    Parking
70.03 Parking Violations: Alternate 70.06 Impounding Vehicles
 
70.01   ARREST OR CITATION.
Whenever a peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
violated any provision of the Traffic Code, such officer may:
1.   Immediate Arrest. Immediately arrest such person and take such person
before a local magistrate, or
2.   Issue Citation. Without arresting the person, prepare in quintuplicate a
combined traffic citation and complaint as adopted by the Iowa Commissioner of
Public Safety, or issue a uniform citation and complaint utilizing a State-
approved computerized device.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.6 and 321.485)
70.02   SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
For violations of the Traffic Code which are designated by Section 805.8A of
the Code of Iowa to be scheduled violations, the scheduled fine for each of
those violations shall be as specified in Section 805.8A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 805.8 and 805.8A)
70.03   PARKING VIOLATIONS: ALTERNATE.
Uncontested violations of parking restrictions imposed by this Code of
Ordinances shall be charged upon a simple notice of a fine of $25.00 payable at
the office of the City Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236[1b])
70.04   PARKING VIOLATIONS: VEHICLE UNATTENDED.
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any provision of the Traffic Code, and
the driver is not present, the notice of fine or citation as herein provided
shall be attached to the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
70.05   PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
In any proceeding charging a standing or parking violation, a prima facie
presumption that the registered owner was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred, shall be raised by proof that:
1.   Described Vehicle. The particular vehicle described in the information was
parked in violation of the Traffic Code, and
2.   Registered Owner. The defendant named in the information was the
registered owner at the time in question.
70.06   IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
A peace officer is hereby authorized to remove, or cause to be removed, a
vehicle from a street, public alley, public parking lot or highway to the
nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a garage designated or
maintained by the City, under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
1.   Disabled Vehicle. When a vehicle is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
2.   Illegally Parked Vehicle. When any vehicle is left unattended and is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
3.   Snow Removal. When any vehicle is left parked in violation of a ban on
parking during snow removal operations.
4.   Parked Over Limited Time Period. When any vehicle is left parked for a
continuous period in violation of any limited parking time. If the owner can be
located, the owner shall be given an opportunity to remove the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
5.   Costs. In addition to the standard penalties provided, the owner or driver
of any vehicle impounded for the violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to pay the reasonable cost of towing and storage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.236 [1])
CHAPTER 75
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES.
 
75.01 Purpose                  75.05 Operation of All-Terrain Vehicles
75.02 Definitions              75.06 Hours of Operation
75.03 General Regulations      75.07 Negligence
75.04 Operation of Snowmobiles 75.08 Accident Reports
 
75.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of all-terrain
vehicles and snowmobiles within the City.
75.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “All-terrain vehicle” or “ATV” means a motorized vehicle, with not less
than three and not more than six non-highway tires, that is limited in engine
displacement to less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to
less than 1,200 pounds and that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled
by the operator and handlebars for steering control.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
2.   “Off-road motorcycle” means a two-wheeled motor vehicle that has a seat or
saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering
control and that is intended by the manufacturer for use on natural terrain.
“Off-road motorcycle” includes a motorcycle that was originally issued a
certificate of title and registered for highway use under Chapter 321 of the
Code of Iowa, but that contains design features that enable operation over
natural terrain. An operator of an off-road motorcycle is also subject to the
provisions of this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
3.   “Off-road utility vehicle” means a motorized vehicle, with not less than
four and not more than eight non-highway tires or rubberized tracks, that has a
seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be straddled by the
operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control. “Off-road utility
vehicle” includes the following vehicles:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.1)
   A.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 1” includes vehicles with a total dry
weight of 1,200 pounds or less and a width of 50 inches or less.
   B.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 2” includes vehicles, other than Type
1 vehicles, with a total dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less and a width of 65
inches or less.
   C.   “Off-road utility vehicle – Type 3” includes vehicles with a total dry
weight of more than 2,000 pounds or a width of more than 65 inches, or both.
An operator of an off-road utility vehicle is also subject to the provisions of
this chapter governing the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
4.   “Snowmobile” means a motorized vehicle that weighs less than 1,000 pounds
that uses sled-type runners or skis, endless belt-type tread with a width of 48
inches or less, or any combination of runners, skis, or tread, and is designed
for travel on snow or ice. “Snowmobile” does not include an all-terrain vehicle
that has been altered or equipped with runners, skis, belt-type tracks, or
treads.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.1)
75.03   GENERAL REGULATIONS.
No person shall operate an ATV, off-road motorcycle or off-road utility vehicle
within the City in violation of Chapter 321I of the Code of Iowa or a
snowmobile within the City in violation of the provisions of Chapter 321G of
the Code of Iowa or in violation of rules established by the Natural Resource
Commission of the Department of Natural Resources governing their registration,
equipment and manner of operation.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 321G and Ch. 321I)
75.04   OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
The operators of snowmobiles shall comply with the following restrictions as to
where snowmobiles may be operated within the City:
1.   Unplowed Streets. Snowmobiles may be operated upon streets which have not
been plowed during the snow season.
2.   Prohibited Streets. Snowmobiles may not be operated on any of the
following streets:
   A.   Main Street.
   B.   Second Street from Lena Street to Altona Street.
3.   Other Streets. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street within the City
for the sole and exclusive purpose of using the most direct roadway for the
ingress to and egress from the City. No snowmobile shall be driven on any
roadway solely for entertainment or pleasure.
(Code of Iowa, See. 321G.9 [4a])
4.   Exceptions. Snowmobiles may be operated on prohibited streets only under
the following circumstances:
   A.   Emergencies. Snowmobiles may be operated on any street in an emergency
during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the roadway
renders travel by conventional motor vehicles impractical.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[4c])
   B.   Direct Crossing. Snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a prohibited
street provided all of the following occur:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
(90º) to the direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
street;
      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
      (4)   In crossing a divided street, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such street with another street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.9[2])
5.   Railroad Right-of-Way. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on an operating
railroad right-of-way. A snowmobile may be driven directly across a railroad
right-of-way only at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other
provisions of law may, if necessary, use the improved portion of the
established crossing after yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.13[1h])
6.   Trails. Snowmobiles shall not be operated on all-terrain vehicle trails
except where so designated.
(Code of Iowa, See. 321G.9[4f])
7.   Parks and Other City Land. Snowmobiles shall not be operated in any park,
playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express permission
of the City. A snowmobile shall not be operated on any City land without a snow
cover of at least one inch.
8.   Sidewalk or Parking. Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the public
sidewalk or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the
sidewalk or property line commonly referred to as the “parking” except for
purposes of crossing the same to a public street upon which operation is
authorized by this chapter.
9.   Private Property. No snowmobile shall be operated upon private property
without the express consent of the owner thereof.
75.05   OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
The operators of ATVs shall comply with the following restrictions as to where
ATVs may be operated within the City:
1.   Streets. ATVs and off-road utility vehicles may be operated on streets
only in accordance with Section 321.234A of the Code of Iowa or on such streets
as may be designated by resolution of the Council for the sport of driving ATVs
or registered off-road utility vehicles. In designating such streets, the
Council may authorize ATVs and off-road utility vehicles to stop at service
stations or convenience stores along a designated street.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[1 and 3])
2.   Trails. ATVs shall not be operated on snowmobile trails except where
designated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[4])
3.   Railroad Right-of-way. ATVs shall not be operated on an operating railroad
right-of-way. An ATV may be driven directly across a railroad right-of-way only
at an established crossing and notwithstanding any other provisions of law may,
if necessary, use the improved portion of the established crossing after
yielding to all oncoming traffic.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.14[1h])
4.   Parks and Other City Land. ATVs shall not be operated in any park, walking
trail, playground or upon any other City-owned property without the express
permission of the City.
5.   Sidewalk or Parking. ATVs shall not be operated upon the public sidewalk
or that portion of the street located between the curb line and the sidewalk or
property line commonly referred to as the “parking.”
6.   Private Property. No ATV shall be operated upon private property without
the express consent of the owner thereof.
7.   Direct Crossing. An all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle may
make a direct crossing of a highway provided all of the following occur:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321I.10[5])
   A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing.
   B.   The all-terrain vehicle or off-road utility vehicle is brought to a
complete stop before crossing the shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
   C.   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
   D.   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another public street or highway.
   E.   The crossing is made from a street, roadway, or highway designated as
an all-terrain vehicle trail by a state agency, county, or city to a street,
roadway, or highway designated as an all-terrain vehicle trail by a state
agency, county, or city.
75.06   HOURS OF OPERATION.
No ATV or snowmobile shall be operated in the City between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. except for emergency situations or for loading and unloading
from a transport trailer.
75.07   NEGLIGENCE.
The owner and operator of an ATV or snowmobile are liable for any injury or
damage occasioned by the negligent operation of the ATV or snowmobile. The
owner of an ATV or snowmobile shall be liable for any such injury or damage
only if the owner was the operator of the ATV or snowmobile at the time the
injury or damage occurred or if the operator had the owner’s consent to operate
the ATV or snowmobile at the time the injury or damage occurred.
(Code of Iowa, See. 321 G.18 and 321I.19)
75.08   ACCIDENT REPORTS.
Whenever an ATV or snowmobile is involved in an accident resulting in injury or
death to anyone or property damage amounting to $1,500.00 or more, either the
operator or someone acting for the operator shall immediately notify a law
enforcement officer and shall file an accident report, in accordance with State
law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321G.10 and 321I.11)
CHAPTER 80
ABANDONED VEHICLES
 
80.01 Definitions                       80.06 Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
80.02 Authority to Take Possession of   80.07 Disposal of Totally Inoperable
Abandoned Vehicles                      Vehicles
80.03 Notice by Mail                    80.08 Proceeds from Sales
80.04 Reclamation of Abandoned Vehicles 80.09 Duties of Demolisher
80.05 Fees for Impoundment
 
80.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[1])
1.   “Abandoned vehicle” means any of the following:
   A.   A vehicle that has been left unattended on public property for more
than 24 hours and lacks current registration plates or two or more wheels or
other parts which renders the vehicle totally inoperable.
   B.   A vehicle that has remained illegally on public property for more than
24 hours.
   C.   A vehicle that has been unlawfully parked or placed on private property
without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property for more
than 24 hours.
   D.   A vehicle that has been legally impounded by order of a police
authority and has not been reclaimed for a period of 10 days. However, a police
authority may declare the vehicle abandoned within the 10-day period by
commencing the notification process.
   E.   Any vehicle parked on the highway determined by a police authority to
create a hazard to other vehicle traffic.
   F.   A vehicle that has been impounded pursuant to Section 321J.4B of the
Code of Iowa by order of the court and whose owner has not paid the impoundment
fees after notification by the person or agency responsible for carrying out
the impoundment order.
2.   “Demolisher” means a person licensed under Chapter 321H of the Code of
Iowa whose business it is to convert a vehicle to junk, processed scrap or
scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck, or dismantle vehicles.
3.   “Garage keeper” means any operator of a parking place or establishment,
motor vehicle storage facility, or establishment for the servicing, repair, or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
4.   “Police authority” means the Iowa State Patrol or any law enforcement
agency of a county or city.
80.02   AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
A police authority, upon the authority’s own initiative or upon the request of
any other authority having the duties of control of highways or traffic, shall
take into custody an abandoned vehicle on public property and may take into
custody any abandoned vehicle on private property. The police authority may
employ its own personnel, equipment and facilities or hire a private entity,
equipment and facilities for the purpose of removing, preserving, storing, or
disposing of abandoned vehicles. A property owner or other person in control of
private property may employ a private entity that is a garage keeper to dispose
of an abandoned vehicle, and the private entity may take into custody the
abandoned vehicle without a police authority’s initiative. If a police
authority employs a private entity to dispose of abandoned vehicles, the police
authority shall provide the private entity with the names and addresses of the
registered owners, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant to
the vehicle or the personal property found in the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[2])
80.03   NOTICE BY MAIL.
1.   A police authority or private entity that takes into custody an abandoned
vehicle shall send notice by certified mail that the vehicle has been taken
into custody, no more than 20 days after taking custody of the vehicle. Notice
shall be sent to the last known address of record of the last known registered
owner of the vehicle, all lienholders of record, and any other known claimant
to the vehicle.
2.   Notice shall be deemed given when mailed. The notice shall include all of
the following:
   A.   A description of the year, make, model and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle.
   B.   The location of the facility where the vehicle is being held.
   C.   Information for the persons receiving the notice of their right to
reclaim the vehicle and personal property contained therein within 10 days
after the effective date of the notice. Persons may reclaim the vehicle or
personal property upon payment of all towing, preservation, and storage charges
resulting from placing the vehicle in custody and upon payment of the costs of
the notice required pursuant to this section.
   D.   A statement that failure of the owner, lienholders, or claimants to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the
time provided shall be deemed a waiver by the owner, lienholders, and claimants
of all right, title, claim, and interest in the vehicle or personal property.
   E.   A statement that failure to reclaim the vehicle or personal property is
deemed consent for the police authority or private entity to sell the vehicle
at a public auction or dispose of the vehicle to a demolisher and to dispose of
the personal property by sale or destruction.
3.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a private entity
without a police authority’s initiative, the notice shall state that the
private entity may claim a garage keeper’s lien as described in Section 321.90,
Subsection 1, of the Code of Iowa, and may proceed to sell or dispose of the
vehicle.
4.   If the abandoned vehicle was taken into custody by a police authority or
by a private entity hired by a police authority, the notice shall state that
any person claiming rightful possession of the vehicle or personal property who
disputes the planned disposition of the vehicle or property by the police
authority or private entity, or of the assessment of fees and charges provided
by this section, may ask for an evidentiary hearing before the police authority
to contest those matters.
5.   If the persons receiving notice do not ask for a hearing or exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle or personal property within the 10-day reclaiming
period, the owner, lienholders, or claimants shall no longer have any right,
title, claim, or interest in or to the vehicle or the personal property.
6.   A court in any case in law or equity shall not recognize any right, title,
claim, or interest of the owner, lienholders, or claimants after the expiration
of the 10-day reclaiming period.
7.   If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identities
and addresses of the last registered owner and all lienholders, notice by one
publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
vehicle was abandoned shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
under Subsection 2 of this section. The published notice may contain multiple
listings of abandoned vehicles, but shall be published within the same time
requirements and contain the same information as prescribed for mailed notice
in Subsection 2 of this section.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3])
80.04   RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
Prior to driving an abandoned vehicle away from the premises, a person who
received (or who is reclaiming the vehicle on behalf of a person who received)
notice under Section
80.03 shall present to the police authority or private entity, as applicable,
the person’s valid driver’s license and proof of financial liability coverage
as provided in Section 321.20B of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.05   FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
The owner, lienholder or claimant shall pay all towing and storage fees as
established by the storage facility, whereupon the vehicle shall be released.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[3a])
80.06   DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
If an abandoned vehicle has not been reclaimed as provided herein, the police
authority or private entity shall make a determination as to whether or not the
motor vehicle should be sold for use upon the highways, and shall dispose of
the motor vehicle in accordance with State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.07   DISPOSAL OF TOTALLY INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
The City or any person upon whose property or in whose possession is found any
abandoned motor vehicle, or any person being the owner of a motor vehicle whose
title certificate is faulty, lost or destroyed, may dispose of such motor
vehicle to a demolisher for junk, without a title and without notification
procedures, if such motor vehicle lacks an engine or two or more wheels or
other structural part which renders the vehicle totally inoperable. The police
authority shall give the applicant a certificate of authority. The applicant
shall then apply to the County Treasurer for a junking certificate and shall
surrender the certificate of authority in lieu of the certificate of title.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[2e])
80.08   PROCEEDS FROM SALES.
Proceeds from the sale of any abandoned vehicle shall be applied to the expense
of auction, cost of towing, preserving, storing and notification required, in
accordance with State law. Any balance shall be held for the owner of the motor
vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited in the
State Road Use Tax Fund. Where the sale of any vehicle fails to realize the
amount necessary to meet costs the police authority shall apply for
reimbursement from the Department of Transportation.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.89[4])
80.09   DUTIES OF DEMOLISHER.
Any demolisher who purchases or otherwise acquires an abandoned motor vehicle
for junk shall junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle or otherwise demolish such motor
vehicle. A demolisher shall not junk, scrap, wreck, dismantle or demolish a
vehicle until the demolisher has obtained the junking certificate issued for
the vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.90[3a])
CHAPTER 90
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM.
90.01 Definitions                   90.11 Installation of Water Service Pipe
90.02 Superintendent’s Duties     90.12 Responsibility for Water Service
                                    Pipe
90.03 Mandatory Connections         90.13 Failure to Maintain
90.04 Abandoned Connections         90.14 Curb Valve
90.05 Permit                        90.15 Interior Valve
90.06 Fee for Permit and Connection 90.16 Inspection and Approval
Charge
90.07 Compliance with Plumbing Code 90.17 Completion by the City
90.08 Plumber Required              90.18 Shutting Off Water Supply
90.09 Excavations                   90.19 Operation of Curb Valve and Hydrants
90.10 Tapping Mains
 
90.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms are defined for use in the chapters in this Code of
Ordinances pertaining to the Water Service System:
1.   “Combined service account” means a customer service account for the
provision of two or more utility services.
2.   “Customer” means, in addition to any person receiving water service from
the City, the owner of the property served, and as between such parties the
duties, responsibilities, liabilities and obligations hereinafter imposed shall
be joint and several.
3.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of the City water system or any
duly authorized assistant, agent or representative.
4.   “Water main” means a water supply pipe provided for public or community
use.
5.   “Water service pipe” means the pipe from the water main to the building
served.
6.   “Water system” or “water works” means all public facilities for securing,
collecting, storing, pumping, treating and distributing water.
90.02   SUPERINTENDENT’S DUTIES.
The Superintendent shall supervise the installation of water service pipes and
their connection to the water main and enforce all regulations pertaining to
water services in the City in accordance with this chapter. This chapter shall
apply to all replacements of existing water service pipes as well as to new
ones. The Superintendent shall make such rules, not in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, as may be needed for the detailed operation of the
water system, subject to the approval of the Council. In the event of an
emergency the Superintendent may make temporary rules for the protection of the
system until due consideration by the Council may be had.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
90.03   MANDATORY CONNECTIONS.
All residences and business establishments within the City limits intended or
used for human habitation, occupancy or use shall be connected to the public
water system.
90.04   ABANDONED CONNECTIONS.
When an existing water service is abandoned or a service is renewed with a new
tap in the main, all abandoned connections with the mains shall be turned off
at the City main and made absolutely watertight. The corp must be taken off and
wrapped with a stainless-steel band. Once completed, this must be inspected by
the Superintendent to ensure compliance.
90.05   PERMIT.
Before any person makes a connection with the public water system, a written
permit must be obtained from the City. The application for the permit shall
include a legal description of the property, the name of the property owner,
the name and address of the person who will do the work, and the general uses
of the water. If the proposed work meets all the requirements of this chapter
and if all fees required under this chapter have been paid, the permit shall be
issued. Work under any permit must be completed within 60 days after the permit
is issued, except that when such time period is inequitable or unfair due to
conditions beyond the control of the person making the application, an
extension of time within which to complete the work may be granted. The permit
may be revoked at any time for any violation of these chapters.
90.06   FEE FOR PERMIT AND CONNECTION CHARGE.
A permit fee and a connection charge, as established by resolution of the
Council, shall be paid to the City at the time the permit application is filed.
The Council may also provide by resolution for a deposit to be paid at the time
the permit application is filed to assure the return of sketch required under
section
90.10.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
90.07   COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
The installation of any water service pipe and any connection with the water
system shall comply with all pertinent and applicable provisions, whether
regulatory, procedural or enforcement provisions of the State Plumbing Code.
90.08   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of water service pipes and connections to the water system
shall be made by a State-licensed plumber.
90.09   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation and backfilling required in making a connection
shall be performed in accordance with the State Plumbing Code and the
provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
90.10   TAPPING MAINS.
All taps into water mains shall be made by or under the direct supervision of
the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Independent Services. No more than one house, building or premises shall
be supplied from one tap unless special written permission is obtained from the
Superintendent and unless provision is made so that each house, building or
premises may be shut off independently of the other.
2.   Sizes and Location of Taps. All mains six inches or less in diameter shall
receive no larger than a three-fourths-inch tap. All mains of over six inches
in diameter shall receive no larger than a one-inch tap. Where a larger
connection than a one-inch tap is desired, two or more small taps or saddles
shall be used, as the Superintendent shall order. All taps in the mains shall
be made in the top half of the pipe, at least 18 inches apart. No main shall be
tapped nearer than two feet of the joint in the main.
3.   Corporation Stop. A brass corporation stop, of the pattern and weight
approved by the Superintendent, shall be inserted in every tap in the main. The
corporation stop in the main shall be of the same size as the service pipe.
4.   Location Record. An accurate and dimensional sketch showing the exact
location of the tap shall be filed with the Superintendent in such form as the
Superintendent shall require.
90.11   INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
Water service pipes from the main to the meter setting shall be plastic or
copper. The use of any other pipe material for the service line shall first be
approved by the Superintendent. Pipe must be laid sufficiently waving, and to
such depth, as to prevent rupture from settlement or freezing.
90.12   RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER SERVICE PIPE.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection and maintenance
of the water service pipe from the main to the building served shall be borne
by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation or maintenance of
said water service pipe.
90.13   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
When any portion of the water service pipe, which is the responsibility of the
property owner, becomes defective or creates a nuisance and the owner fails to
correct such nuisance the City may do so and assess the costs thereof to the
property.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.14   CURB VALVE.
There shall be installed within the public right-of-way an operational main
shut-off valve, within 60 days of notification to owner, on the water service
pipe of a pattern approved by the Superintendent. The shut-off valve shall be
constructed to be visible and even with the pavement or ground.
90.15   INTERIOR VALVE.
There shall be installed an operational shut-off valve on every service pipe
inside the building as close to the entrance of the pipe within the building as
possible and so located that the water can be shut off conveniently. Where one
service pipe supplies more than one customer within the building, there shall
be separate valves for each such customer so that service may be shut off for
one without interfering with service to the others.
90.16   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
All water service pipes and their connections to the water system must be
inspected and approved in writing by the Superintendent before they are
covered, and the Superintendent shall keep a record of such approvals. If the
Superintendent refuses to approve the work, the plumber or property owner must
proceed immediately to correct the work. Every person who uses or intends to
use the municipal water system shall permit the Superintendent to enter the
premises to inspect or make necessary alterations or repairs at all reasonable
hours and on proof of authority.
90.17   COMPLETION BY THE CITY.
Should any excavation be left open or only partly refilled for 24 hours after
the water service pipe is installed and connected with the water system, or
should the work be improperly done, the City shall have the right to finish or
correct the work, and the Council shall assess the costs to the property owner
or the plumber. If the plumber is assessed, the plumber must pay the costs
before receiving another permit. If the property owner is assessed, such
assessment may be collected with and in the same manner as general property
taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3a and h])
90.18   SHUTTING OFF WATER SUPPLY.
The Superintendent may shut off the supply of water to any customer because of
any violation of the regulations contained in these Water Service System
chapters that is not being contested in good faith. The supply shall not be
turned on again until all violations have been corrected and the Superintendent
has ordered the water to be turned on.
90.19   OPERATION OF CURB VALVE AND HYDRANTS.
It is unlawful for any person except the Superintendent to turn water on at the
curb valve, and no person, unless specifically authorized by the City, shall
open or attempt to draw water from any fire hydrant for any purpose whatsoever.
CHAPTER 91
WATER METERS
 
91.01 Purpose                            91.06 Meter Costs
91.02 Water Use Metered                  91.07 Meter Repairs
91.03 Fire Sprinkler Systems – Exceptio91.08 Right of Entry
91.04 Location of Meters                 91.09 Meter Installation Fee
91.05 Meter Setting                      91.10 Re-Read Meter Fee
 
91.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the conservation of water and
facilitate the equitable distribution of charges for water service among
customers.
91.02   WATER USE METERED.
All water furnished customers shall be measured through meters furnished by the
City and installed by the City.
91.03   FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS – EXCEPTION.
Fire sprinkler systems may be connected to water mains by direct connection
without meters under the direct supervision of the Superintendent. No open
connection can be incorporated in the system, and there shall be no valves
except a main control valve at the entrance to the building which must be
sealed open.
91.04   LOCATION OF METERS.
All meters shall be so located that they are easily accessible to meter readers
and repairmen and protected from freezing. Any meter installed must be
inspected and approved the Superintendent.
91.05   METER SETTING.
The property owner shall provide all necessary piping and fittings for proper
setting of the meter including a valve on the discharge side of the meter.
Meter pits may be used only upon approval of the Superintendent and shall be of
a design and construction approved by the Superintendent.
91.06   METER COSTS.
The full cost of any meter larger than that required for a single-family
residence shall be paid to the City by the property owner or customer prior to
the installation of any such meter by the City, or, at the sole option of the
City, the property owner or customer may be required to purchase and install
such meter in accordance with requirements established by the City.
91.07   METER REPAIRS.
Whenever a water meter owned by the City is found to be out of order the
Superintendent shall have it repaired. If it is found that damage to the meter
has occurred due to the carelessness or negligence of the customer or property
owner, or the meter is not owned by the City, then the property owner shall be
liable for the cost of repairs.
91.08   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent shall be permitted to enter the premises of any customer at
any reasonable time to read, remove, change or lock off a meter due to
nonpayment if no working shutoff is available.
91.09   METER INSTALLATION FEE.
There shall be a fee charged to the property owner for each new installation of
a water meter in accordance with the schedule of such fees approved by
resolution of the Council.
91.10   RE-READ METER FEE.
A fee of $25.00 will be charged to a customer who requests to have the water
meter re-read by a City employee after an initial reading has been made. If the
meter and remote are found to be working properly, the $25.00 fee will be
assessed to the customer. If the meter is found to be in error, no charge will
be assessed to the customer.
CHAPTER 92
WATER RATES
 
92.01 Service Charges           92.07 Lien Exemption
92.02 Rates For Service         92.08 Lien Notice
92.03 Rates Outside the City    92.09 Customer Deposits
92.04 Billing for Water Service 92.10 Water Leaks
92.05 Service Discontinued      92.11 Temporary Vacancy
92.06 Lien for Nonpayment
 
92.01   SERVICE CHARGES.
Each customer shall pay for water service provided by the City based upon use
of water as determined by meters provided for in
Chapter 91. Each location, building, premises or connection shall be considered
a separate and distinct customer whether owned or controlled by the same person
or not.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.02   RATES FOR SERVICE.
Water service shall be furnished at the following monthly rates within the
City:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Inside City Limits.
 
                    Beginning Beginning Beginning    Beginning    Beginning
            Current September September September 1, September 1, September 1,
                    1, 2024   1, 2025   2026         2027         2028
Base Rate
(first      $9.93   $10.23    $10.54    $10.86       $11.19       $11.53
1,000
gallons)
Usage (all
over 1,000
gallons per $5.07   $5.22     $5.38     $5.54        $5.71        $5.88
1,000
gallons)
Capital
Projects    $8.30   $8.55     $8.81     $9.07        $9.34        $9.62
Fund
Meter       $1.56   $1.61     $1.66     $1.71        $1.76        $1.81
Charge
 
2.   Outside City Limits.
 
                    Beginning Beginning Beginning    Beginning    Beginning
            Current September September September 1, September 1, September 1,
                    1, 2024   1, 2025   2026         2027         2028
Base Rate
(first      $18.67  $19.23    $19.81    $20.40       $21.01       $21.64
1,000
gallons)
Usage (all
over 1,000
gallons per $10.14  $10.44    $10.75    $11.07       $11.40       $11.74
1,000
gallons)
Capital
Projects    $8.30   $8.55     $8.81     $9.07        $9.34        $9.62
Fund
Meter       $1.56   $1.61     $1.66     $1.71        1.76         $1.81
Charge
 
3.   Bulk Water.
 
                    Beginning Beginning Beginning    Beginning    Beginning
            Current September September September 1, September 1, September 1,
                    1, 2024   1, 2025   2026         2027         2028
Base Rate
(first      $18.67  $19.23    $19.81    $20.40       $21.01       $21.64
1,000
gallons)
Usage (all
over 1,000
gallons per $10.14  $10.44    $10.75    $11.07       $11.40       $11.74
1,000
gallons)
 
In no case shall the minimum bill be less than the base rate plus the capital
projects fee plus the meter charge per month.
(Section 92.02 – Ord. 260 – Sep. 24 Supp.)
92.03   RATES OUTSIDE THE CITY.
Water service shall be provided to any customer located outside the corporate
limits of the City which the City has agreed to serve at the same rates
provided in Section
92.02. No such customer, however, will be served unless the customer shall have
signed a service contract agreeing to be bound by the ordinances, rules and
regulations applying to water service established by the Council.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.4 and 384.84)
92.04   BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
Water service shall be billed as part of a combined service account, payable in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Bills Issued. The Clerk shall prepare and issue bills for combined service
accounts on or before the first day of each month.
2.   Bills Payable. Bills for combined service accounts shall be due and
payable at the office of the Clerk by the fifteenth day of the billing month.
3.   Late Payment Penalty. Bills not paid when due shall be considered
delinquent. A one-time late payment penalty of $15.00 per account per month
shall be added to each delinquent bill.
(Subsection 3 - Ord. 254 - Jul. 23 Supp.)
92.05   SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
Water service to delinquent customers shall be discontinued or disconnected in
accordance with the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Notice. The Clerk shall notify each delinquent customer that service will
be discontinued or disconnected if payment of the combined service account,
including late payment charges, is not received by the date specified in the
notice of delinquency. Late notices will be sent on the sixteenth of each
month. Such notice shall be sent by ordinary mail to the customer in whose name
the delinquent charges were incurred and shall inform the customer of the
nature of the delinquency and afford the customer the opportunity for a hearing
prior to the discontinuance or disconnected. Disconnections will be done on the
twenty-eighth of each month. In the event that a Notice of Disconnection is
posted on the property, a $15.00 trip charge will also apply.
2.   Notice to Landlords. If the customer is a tenant, and if the owner or
landlord of the property or premises has made a written request for notice, the
notice of delinquency shall also be given to the owner or landlord. If the
customer is a tenant and requests a change of name for service under the
account, such request shall be sent to the owner or landlord of the property if
the owner or landlord has made a written request for notice of any change of
name for service under the account to the rental property.
3.   Hearing. If a hearing is requested by noon of the day preceding the shut
off, the Clerk shall conduct an informal hearing and shall make a determination
as to whether the disconnection or disconnected is justified. The customer has
the right to appeal the Clerk’s decision to the Utilities Committee of the
Council, and if it is found that disconnection or disconnected is justified,
then such disconnection shall be made, unless payment has been received.
4.   Fees. A fee of $60.00 shall be charged before service is restored to a
delinquent customer. If the service is restored after hours, the fee shall be
$75.00. No fee shall be charged for the usual or customary trips in the regular
changes in occupancies of property.
92.06   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served and any lessee or tenant thereof shall be
jointly and severally liable for water service charges to the premises. Water
service charges remaining unpaid and delinquent shall constitute a lien upon
the property or premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk to the
County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.07   LIEN EXEMPTION.  
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
1.   Water Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall not apply to
charges for water service to a residential or commercial rental property where
water service is separately metered and the rates or charges for the water
service are paid directly to the City by the tenant, if the landlord gives
written notice to the City that the property is residential or commercial
rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or charges. The
City may require a deposit not exceeding the usual cost of 90 days of such
services to be paid to the City. When the tenant moves from the rental
property, the City shall refund the deposit if all service charges are paid in
full. The lien exemption does not apply to delinquent charges for repairs
related to any of the services.
2.   Other Service Exemption. The lien for nonpayment shall also not apply to
the charges for any of the services of sewer systems, storm water drainage
systems, sewage treatment, solid waste collection, and solid waste disposal for
a residential rental property where the charge is paid directly to the City by
the tenant, if the landlord gives written notice to the City that the property
is residential rental property and that the tenant is liable for the rates or
charges for such service. The City may require a deposit not exceeding the
usual cost of 90 days of such services to be paid to the City. When the tenant
moves from the rental property, the City shall refund the deposit if all
service charges are paid in full. The lien exemption does not apply to
delinquent charges for repairs related to any of the services.
3.   Written Notice. The landlord’s written notice shall contain the name of
the tenant responsible for charges, the address of the residential or
commercial rental property that the tenant is to occupy, and the date that the
occupancy begins. Upon receipt, the City shall acknowledge the notice and
deposit. A change in tenant for a residential rental property shall require a
new written notice to be given to the City within 30 business days of the
change in tenant. A change in tenant for a commercial rental property shall
require a new written notice to be given to the City within 10 business days of
the change in tenant. A change in the ownership of the residential rental
property shall require written notice of such change to be given to the City
within 30 business days of the completion of the change of ownership. A change
in the ownership of the commercial rental property shall require written notice
of such change to be given to the City within 10 business days of the
completion of the change of ownership.
4.   Mobile Homes, Modular Homes, and Manufactured Homes. A lien for nonpayment
of utility services described in Subsections 1 and 2 of this section shall not
be placed upon a premises that is a mobile home, modular home, or manufactured
home if the mobile home, modular home, or manufactured home is owned by a
tenant of and located in a mobile home park or manufactured home community and
the mobile home park or manufactured home community owner or manager is the
account holder, unless the lease agreement specifies that the tenant is
responsible for payment of a portion of the rates or charges billed to the
account holder.
92.08   LIEN NOTICE.
A lien for delinquent water service charges shall not be certified to the
County Treasurer unless prior written notice of intent to certify a lien is
given to the customer in whose name the delinquent charges were incurred. If
the customer is a tenant and if the owner or landlord of the property or
premises has made a written request for notice, the notice shall also be given
to the owner or landlord. The notice shall be sent to the appropriate persons
by ordinary mail not less than 30 days prior to certification of the lien to
the County Treasurer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.09   CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
There shall be required from every customer not the owner of the premises
served a $150.00 deposit intended to guarantee the payment of bills for
service.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
92.10   WATER LEAKS.
The customer shall be liable for any water or sewer usage which is used,
consumed, dissipated, lost, wasted, etc. when same is as a result of leaks,
breaks, wear and tear, improper installation, improper connection, etc. of the
water pipes, water lines, appliances, fixtures, equipment or devices. No
adjustment shall be made to a customer’s water bill due to excess usage or
meter reading attributable to the above acts or otherwise attributable to the
customer. Provided, however, the Council may, in its discretion, adjust or
permit the adjustment of a water bill in the event that any such excess usage
or meter reading is attributable to a water meter which is defective or
malfunctions, and the customer did not reasonably have knowledge of said defect
or malfunction.
92.11   TEMPORARY VACANCY.
A property owner may request water service be temporarily discontinued and shut
off at the curb valve when the property is expected to be vacant for an
extended period of time. There shall be a $60.00 fee collected for shutting the
water off at the curb valve and a $60.00 fee for restoring service. During a
period when service is temporarily discontinued as provided herein there shall
be a $10.00 per month water availability charge. The City will not drain pipes
or pull meters for temporary vacancies.
CHAPTER 95
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
 
95.01 Purpose                   95.06 Service Outside the City
95.02 Definitions               95.07 Right of Entry
95.03 Superintendent            95.08 Use of Easements
95.04 Prohibited Acts           95.09 Special Penalties
95.05 Sewer Connection Required
 
95.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Sanitary
Sewers is to establish rules and regulations governing the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage within the City in order to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
95.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise,
the following terms are defined:
1.   “B.O.D.” (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) means the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees C, expressed in milligrams per
liter or parts per million.
2.   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning three feet outside the inner face of the building
wall.
3.   “Building sewer” means that part of the horizontal piping from the
building wall to its connection with the main sewer or the primary treatment
portion of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system conveying the
drainage of one building site.
4.   “Combined sewer” means a sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
5.   “Customer” means any person responsible for the production of domestic,
commercial or industrial waste which is directly or indirectly discharged into
the public sewer system.
6.   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
7.   “Industrial wastes” means the liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
8.   “Inspector” means the person duly authorized by the Council to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connections to the public
sewer system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
9.   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
or other body of surface or groundwater.
10.   “On-site wastewater treatment and disposal system” means all equipment
and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment,
and disposal of wastewater from four or fewer dwelling units or other
facilities serving the equivalent of 15 persons (1,500 gpd) or less.
11.   “pH” means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
12.   “Public sewer” means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
13.   “Sanitary sewage” means sewage discharging from the sanitary conveniences
of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings,
factories or institutions, and free from storm, surface water, and industrial
waste.
14.   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
15.   “Sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
16.   “Sewage treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
17.   “Sewage works” or “sewage system” means all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
18.   “Sewer” means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
19.   “Sewer service charges” means any and all charges, rates or fees levied
against and payable by customers, as consideration for the servicing of said
customers by said sewer system.
20.   “Slug” means any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
21.   “Storm drain” or “storm sewer” means a sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
22.   “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of sewage works and/or of water
pollution control of the City or any authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
23.   “Suspended solids” means solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable
by laboratory filtering.
24.   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
95.03   SUPERINTENDENT.
The Superintendent shall exercise the following powers and duties:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 372.13[4])
1.   Operation and Maintenance. Operate and maintain the City sewage system.
2.   Inspection and Tests. Conduct necessary inspections and tests to assure
compliance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
3.   Records. Maintain a complete and accurate record of all sewers, sewage
connections and manholes constructed showing the location and grades thereof.
95.04   PROHIBITED ACTS.
No person shall do, or allow, any of the following:
1.   Damage Sewer System. Maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewer system.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
2.   Surface Run-off or Groundwater. Connect a roof downspout, sump pump,
exterior foundation drain, areaway drain, or other source of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
3.   Manholes. Open or enter any manhole of the sewer system, except by
authority of the Superintendent.
4.   Objectionable Wastes. Place or deposit in any unsanitary manner on public
or private property within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
5.   Septic Tanks. Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage except
as provided in these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
6.   Untreated Discharge. Discharge to any natural outlet within the City, or
in any area under its jurisdiction, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these chapters.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
95.05   SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
The owners of any houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required
to install, at such owner’s expense, suitable toilet facilities therein and a
building sewer connecting such facilities directly with the proper public
sewer, and to maintain the same all in accordance with the provisions of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters, such compliance to be completed within 30 days after
date of official notice from the City to do so provided that said public sewer
is located within 300 feet of the property line of such owner and is of such
design as to receive and convey by gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to
it. Billing for sanitary sewer service will begin the date of official notice
to connect to the public sewer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12 [3f])
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
95.06   SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
The owners of property outside the corporate limits of the City so situated
that it may be served by the City sewer system must follow procedures to annex
into the City limits to be allowed to connect to the public sewer system.
95.07   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of these Sanitary Sewer chapters.
The Superintendent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
95.08   USE OF EASEMENTS.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the City bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
95.09   SPECIAL PENALTIES.
The following special penalty provisions shall apply to violations of these
Sanitary Sewer chapters:
1.   Notice of Violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
these chapters except Subsections 1, 3, and 4 of Section
95.04, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
2.   Continuing Violations. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided for in subsection 1 hereof shall be in violation of
this Code of Ordinances. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
3.   Liability Imposed. Any person violating any of the provisions of these
chapters shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the City by reason of such violation.
CHAPTER 96
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
 
96.01 Permit                  96.06 Interceptors Required
96.02 Permit Fee              96.07 Sewer Tap
96.03 Plumber Required        96.08 Inspection Required
96.04 Excavations             96.09 Property Owner’s Responsibility
96.05 Connection Requirements 96.10 Abatement of Violations
 
96.01   PERMIT.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the City. The application for the permit shall
set forth the location and description of the property to be connected with the
sewer system and the purpose for which the sewer is to be used, and shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent. The permit shall require the owner to complete construction and
connection of the building sewer to the public sewer within 60 days after the
issuance of the permit, except that when a property owner makes sufficient
showing that due to conditions beyond the owner’s control or peculiar hardship,
such time period is inequitable or unfair, an extension of time within which to
comply with the provisions herein may be granted. Any sewer connection permit
may be revoked at any time for a violation of these chapters.
96.02   PERMIT FEE.
The person who makes the application shall pay a fee in the amount of $250.00
to the Clerk to cover the cost of issuing the permit and supervising,
regulating, and inspecting the work.
96.03   PLUMBER REQUIRED.
All installations of building sewers and connections to the public sewer shall
be made by a State-licensed plumber.
96.04   EXCAVATIONS.
All trench work, excavation, and backfilling required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
State Plumbing Code and the provisions of
Chapter 135 of this Code of Ordinances.
96.05   CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
Any connection with a public sanitary sewer must be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent and in accordance with the following:
1.   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test conducted by
the owner and observed by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
2.   Separate Building Sewers. A separate and independent building sewer shall
be provided for every occupied building; except where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway. In such cases the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
3.   Installation. The installation and connection of the building sewer to the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code and
applicable rules and regulations of the City. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
4.   Water Lines. When possible, building sewers should be laid at least 10
feet horizontally from a water service. The horizontal separation may be less,
provided the water service line is located at one side and at least 12 inches
above the top of the building sewer.
5.   Size. Building sewers shall be sized for the peak expected sewage flow
from the building with a minimum building sewer size of four inches.
6.   Alignment and Grade. All building sewers shall be laid to a straight line
to meet the following:
   A.   Recommended grade at one-fourth inch per foot.
   B.   Minimum grade of one-eighth inch per foot.
   C.   Minimum velocity of two feet per second with the sewer half full.
   D.   Any deviation in alignment or grade shall be made only with the written
approval of the Superintendent and shall be made only with approved fittings.
7.   Depth. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth of cover above the
sewer shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
8.   Sewage Lifts. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building
sewer.
9.   Pipe Specifications. Building sewer pipe shall be free from flaws, splits,
or breaks. Materials shall be as specified in the State Plumbing Code except
that the building sewer pipe, from the property line to the public sewer, shall
comply with the current edition of one of the following:
   A.   Clay sewer pipe – A.S.T.M. C-700 (extra strength).
   B.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe – A.S.T.M. A-74.
   C.   Ductile iron water pipe – A.W.W.A. C-151.
   D.   P.V.C. – SDR26 – A.S.T.M. D-3034.
10.   Bearing Walls. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to, or within
three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened.
11.   Jointing. Fittings, type of joint, and jointing material shall be
compatible with the type of pipe used, subject to the approval of the
Superintendent. Solvent-welded joints are not permitted.
12.   Unstable Soil. No sewer connection shall be laid so that it is exposed
when crossing any watercourse. Where an old watercourse must of necessity be
crossed or where there is any danger of undermining or settlement, cast iron
soil pipe or vitrified clay sewer pipe thoroughly encased in concrete shall be
required for such crossings. Such encasement shall extend at least six inches
on all sides of the pipe. The cast iron pipe or encased clay pipe shall rest on
firm, solid material at either end.
13.   Preparation of Basement or Crawl Space. No connection for any residence,
business or other structure with any sanitary sewer shall be made unless the
basement floor is poured, or in the case of a building with a slab or crawl
space, unless the ground floor is installed with the area adjacent to the
foundation of such building cleared of debris and backfilled. The backfill
shall be well compacted and graded so that the drainage is away from the
foundation. Prior to the time the basement floor is poured, or the first floor
is installed in buildings without basements, the sewer shall be plugged and the
plug shall be sealed by the Superintendent. Any accumulation of water in any
excavation or basement during construction and prior to connection to the
sanitary sewer shall be removed by means other than draining into the sanitary
sewer.
96.06   INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, sludge and sand interceptors shall be provided by gas and service
stations, convenience stores, car washes, garages, and other facilities when,
in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of such wastes that contain grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients. Such interceptors shall not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. When required, such
interceptors shall be installed in accordance with the following:
1.   Design and Location. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity as
specified in the State Plumbing Code, to be approved by the Superintendent, and
shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
2.   Construction Standards. The interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers that shall be gastight and watertight.
3.   Maintenance. All such interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at the
owner’s expense and shall be kept in continuously efficient operations at all
times.
96.07   SEWER TAP.
Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the “Y”
branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If no properly
located “Y” branch is available, a saddle “Y” shall be installed at the
location specified by the Superintendent. The public sewer shall be tapped with
a tapping machine and a saddle appropriate to the type of public sewer shall be
glued or attached with a gasket and stainless steel clamps to the sewer. At no
time shall a building sewer be constructed so as to enter a manhole unless
special written permission is received from the Superintendent and in
accordance with the Superintendent’s direction if such connection is approved.
96.08   INSPECTION REQUIRED.
All connections with the sanitary sewer system before being covered shall be
inspected and approved, in writing, by the Superintendent. As soon as all pipe
work from the public sewer to inside the building has been completed, and
before any backfilling is done, the Superintendent shall be notified and the
Superintendent shall inspect and test the work as to workmanship and material;
no sewer pipe laid underground shall be covered or trenches filled until after
the sewer has been so inspected and approved. If the Superintendent refuses to
approve the work, the plumber or owner must proceed immediately to correct the
work.
96.09   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection and maintenance
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify
the City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
96.10   ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
Construction or maintenance of building sewer lines whether located upon the
private property of any owner or in the public right-of-way, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected, at the owner’s expense, within 30 days after date of
official notice from the Council of such violation. If not made within such
time the Council shall, in addition to the other penalties herein provided,
have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the cost thereof to
the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and in the same
manner as general property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3])
CHAPTER 97
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
 
97.01 Stormwater               97.05 Restricted Discharges; Powers of
                               Superintendent
97.02 Surface Waters Exception 97.06 Special Facilities
97.03 Prohibited Discharges    97.07 Control Manholes
97.04 Restricted Discharges    97.08 Testing of Wastes
 
97.01   STORMWATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a
natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
97.02   SURFACE WATERS EXCEPTION.
Special permits for discharging surface waters to a public sanitary sewer may
be issued by the Council upon recommendation of the Superintendent where such
discharge is deemed necessary or advisable for purposes of flushing, but any
permit so issued shall be subject to revocation at any time when deemed to the
best interests of the sewer system.
97.03   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
1.   Flammable or Explosive Material. Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil,
or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
2.   Toxic or Poisonous Materials. Any waters or wastes containing toxic or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant,
including (but not limited to) cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter
as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
3.   Corrosive Wastes. Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than six or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
4.   Solid or Viscous Substances. Solid or viscous substances in quantities or
of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
5.   Excessive B.O.D., Solids or Flow.
   A.   Any waters or wastes having: (i) a five-day biochemical oxygen demand
greater than 250 mg/L, or; (ii) containing more than 300 mg/L total suspended
solids, or; (iii) having an average daily flow greater than two percent of the
average sewage flow of the City, shall be subject to the review of the
Superintendent.
   B.   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at the owner’s expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to: (i) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 250 mg/L B.O.D., or; (ii)
reduce the suspended solids to 300 mg/L total suspended solids, or; (iii)
control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans,
specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
said approvals are obtained in writing.
97.04   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances restricted are:
1.   High Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150º F.
2.   Fat, Oil, Grease. Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or 600
milligrams per liter of dispersed or other soluble matter.
3.   Viscous Substances. Water or wastes containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees F and 150 degrees
F.
4.   Garbage. Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, that is, to such
a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
inch in any dimension.
5.   Acids. Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
6.   Toxic or Objectionable Wastes. Any waters or wastes containing iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or
wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials.
7.   Odor or Taste. Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or
odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
8.   Radioactive Wastes. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life
or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable State or federal regulations.
9.   Excess Alkalinity. Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine.
10.   Unusual Wastes. Materials which exert or cause:
   A.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
   B.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
   C.   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
   D.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting “slugs”
as defined herein.
11.   Noxious or Malodorous Gases. Any noxious or malodorous gas or other
substance which either singly or by interaction with other wastes is capable of
creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
12.   Damaging Substances. Any waters, wastes, materials or substances which
react with water or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases,
develop color of undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable
concentration or create any other condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
13.   Untreatable Wastes. Waters or wastes containing substances which are not
amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed,
or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
97.05   RESTRICTED DISCHARGES – POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
97.04 and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
1.   Rejection. Reject the wastes by requiring disconnection from the public
sewage system;
2.   Pretreatment. Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for
discharge to the public sewers;
3.   Controls Imposed. Require control over the quantities and rates of
discharge; and/or
4.   Special Charges. Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the
provisions of
Chapter 99.
97.06   SPECIAL FACILITIES.
If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Where preliminary treatment or
flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
the owner’s expense.
97.07   CONTROL MANHOLES.
When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner’s
expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
97.08   TESTING OF WASTES.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples).
CHAPTER 98
ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
 
98.01 When Prohibited             98.05 Discharge Restrictions
98.02 When Required               98.06 Maintenance of System
98.03 Compliance with Regulations 98.07 Systems Abandoned
98.04 Permit Required             98.08 Disposal of Septage
 
98.01   WHEN PROHIBITED.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.02   WHEN REQUIRED.
When a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of Section
95.05, every building wherein persons reside, congregate or are employed shall
be provided with an approved on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.03   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
The type, capacity, location and layout of a private on-site wastewater
treatment and disposal system shall comply with the specifications and
requirements set forth by the Iowa Administrative Code 567, Chapter 69, and
with such additional requirements as are prescribed by the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3 and 4])
98.04   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall install or alter an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system without first obtaining a permit from the County Board of Health.
98.05   DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
It is unlawful to discharge any wastewater from an on-site wastewater treatment
and disposal system (except under an NPDES permit) to any ditch, stream, pond,
lake, natural or artificial waterway, drain tile or to the surface of the
ground.
(IAC, 567-69.1[3])
98.06   MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
The owner of an on-site wastewater treatment and disposal system shall operate
and maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to
the City.
98.07   SYSTEMS ABANDONED.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by an on-
site wastewater treatment and disposal system, as provided in Section
95.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
these Sanitary Sewer chapters and the on-site wastewater treatment and disposal
system shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3f])
98.08   DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE.
No person shall dispose of septage from an on-site treatment system at any
location except an approved disposal site.
CHAPTER 99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
 
99.01 Purpose                                99.08 Special Rates
99.02 Definitions                            99.09 Private Water Systems
99.03 User Charge System                     99.10 Payment of Bills
99.04 Collection Accounts                    99.11 Liability
99.05 Year End Balances and Inter-Fund Loans 99.12 Special Agreements Permitted
99.06 Rate                                   99.13 Water Leaks
99.07 Debt Service                           99.14 Review of Rates
 
99.01   PURPOSE.
It is determined and declared to be necessary. and conducive to the protection
of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the City to collect
charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the City’s wastewater
treatment system. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the
purpose of operating, maintaining, replacement of equipment and/or
appurtenances and retiring the debt for such public wastewater treatment
facilities.
99.02   DEFINITIONS.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
1.   “Debt service” means expenditures for retirement of bonds, interest, and/
or loans that were used for the capitalization of new or upgraded wastewater
treatment facilities.
2.   “Operation and maintenance” means all expenditures during the useful life
of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities and other items which
are necessary for managing and maintaining the wastewater treatment facilities
to achieve the capacity and performance for which such facilities were designed
and constructed.
3.   “Replacement” means expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
replacement.
4.   “Residential contributor” mean any contributor to the City’s wastewater
treatment facility whose lot, parcel of real estate or building is used for
domestic dwelling purposes only.
5.   “Treatment works” means any devices and systems for the storage or
treatment of municipal, domestic, commercial and industrial wastes. These
include intercepting sewers, out fall sewers, sewage collection systems,
individual systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions improvement, remodeling, additions, and alterations
thereof, including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part
of the treatment process; or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal,
domestic, commercial, and industrial wastes, including waste in combined storm
water and sanitary sewer systems.
6.   “Useful life” means the estimated period during which a wastewater
treatment facility will be operated.
7.   “User charge” means that portion of the total wastewater service charge
which is levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of
operation, maintenance, replacement, and debt service of the wastewater
treatment facilities.
8.   “Water meter” means a water volume measuring and recording device,
furnished by the City.
99.03   USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay costs of
annual operation and maintenance including replacement and costs associated
with debt retirement of bonded or borrowed capital used for financing the
wastewater treatment facilities which the City may by ordinance designate to be
paid by the user charge system. That portion of the total user charge which is
designated for operation and maintenance including replacement of the
wastewater treatment facilities shall be established by this chapter.
99.04   COLLECTION ACCOUNTS.
That portion of the-total user charge collected which is designated for
operation and maintenance including replacement and debt service purposes, as
established by this chapter, shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund
known as the Sewer Utility Fund, and will be kept in two primary accounts as
follows:
1.   Sewer Utility Account. An account designated for the specific purpose of
defraying operation and maintenance costs of the wastewater treatment
facilities, including replacement.
2.   Capital Projects and Debt Service Account. An account designated for the
specific purpose of ensuring replacement and debt service needs over the useful
life of the wastewater treatment facilities. Deposits in the Capital Projects
and Debt Service Account shall be timely made from the operation, maintenance,
replacement and debt service revenue.
99.05   YEAR-END BALANCES AND INTER-FUND LOANS.
Fiscal year-end balances in the Sewer Utility Account and the Capital Projects
and Debt Service Account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year, and shall be used for no other purposes than those
designated for these accounts unless redesignated by resolution of the City
Council. Moneys which have been transferred from other sources to meet
temporary shortages in either the Sewer Utility Account or the Capital Projects
and Debt Service Account shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance,
replacement and debt service. The user charge rates shall be adjusted such that
the transferred moneys will be returned to their respective accounts within the
fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the moneys were borrowed.
99.06   RATE.
Each contributor to the sanitary sewer system shall pay for sanitary sewer
service on a monthly basis based on the amount of water used by the contributor
and according to the fees identified in the chart below. In no case shall the
minimum bill be less than the base rate plus the sewer capital projects fund
charge.
 
                   Beginning Beginning Beginning    Beginning    Beginning
           Current September September September 1, September 1, September 1,
                   1, 2024   1, 2025   2026         2027         2028
Base Rate
(includes
the first  $15.17  $16.54    $17.37    $18.24       $19.15       $20.11
1,000
gallons)
Usage over
1,000
gallons    $4.72   $5.14     $5.40     $5.67        $5.95        $6.25
(per 1,000
gallons)
Sewer
Capital    $11.47  $12.50    $13.13    $13.79       $14.48       $15.20
Projects
Fund
 
(Section 99.06 – Ord. 261 – Sep. 24 Supp.)
99.07   DEBT SERVICE.
Each contributor shall pay the sewer debt service/sewer capital projects fee of
$11.47 per month.
(Ord. 255 - Jul. 23 Supp.)
99.08   SPECIAL RATES.
Where, in the judgment of the Clerk and the Council, special conditions exist
to the extent that the application of the sewer charges provided in this
chapter would be inequitable or unfair to either the City or the contributor in
the instance of water used by a contributor but not discharged into the City
wastewater system, or for any other reason, a special rate or credit shall be
proposed by the Clerk and submitted to the Council for approval by resolution.
99.09   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
Contributors whose premises are served by a private water system shall pay
sewer charges based upon the water used as determined by the Clerk, either by
estimate agreed to by the contributor or by metering the water system at the
contributor’s expense. Any negotiated, or agreed upon sales or charges shall be
subject to approval of the Council.
99.10   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
All sewer charges shall be due and payable under the same terms and conditions
provided for payment of water service as provided in Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances.
99.11   LIABILITY.
The owner of the premises served and the occupant thereof and the user of the
sanitary sewer service shall be jointly and severally liable for the sewer
service provided said premises.
99.12   SPECIAL AGREEMENTS PERMITTED.
No statement in this chapter shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement, arrangement or contract between the Council and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste or unusual strength or character may be
accepted subject to special condition, rate and cost as established by the
Council.
99.13   WATER LEAKS.
The customer shall be liable for any water or sewer usage which is used,
consumed, dissipated, lost, wasted, etc. when same is as a result of leaks,
breaks, wear and tear, improper installation, improper connection, etc. of the
water pipes, water lines, appliances, fixtures, equipment, or devices. No
adjustment shall be made to a customer’s sewer bill due to excess usage or
meter reading attributable to the above acts or otherwise attributable to the
customer. Provided, however, the Council may, in its discretion, adjust or
permit the adjustment of a sewer bill in the event that any such excess usage
or meter readings attributable to a water meter which is defective or
malfunctions, and the customer did not reasonably have knowledge of said defect
or malfunction.
99.14   REVIEW OF RATES.
The Council will review the user charge rates annually and revise the user
charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates adequate revenues
to pay the costs of operation and maintenance including replacement of
equipment as well as adequate revenues, to pay the costs of debt service. The
Council will budget an annual appropriation that will be placed in the
Equipment Revolving Fund to cover the replacement of equipment at the end of
the expected life of the equipment or at any time before the useful life due to
failure. This amount will also be adjusted annually as needed. The Clerk will
notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the
rate being charged for operation, maintenance including replacement of
equipment and debt service of the wastewater treatment facilities.
CHAPTER 100
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM DISTRICT UTILITY.
 
100.01 Purpose          100.04 Lien for Nonpayment
100.02 Fee              100.05 Use of Funds
100.03 Payment of Bills
 
100.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a Stormwater Drainage System
District Utility and provide a means of funding the construction, operation,
and maintenance of stormwater management facilities including, (but not limited
to) detention and retention basins, stormwater sewers, inlets, ditches and
drains, and cleaning of streets. The Council finds that the construction,
operation, and maintenance of the City’s storm and surface water drainage
system should be funded through charging users of property which may connect or
discharge directly, or indirectly, into the storm and surface water drainage
system. This chapter authorizes a fee for the use of and discharge to the
public storm water drainage system.
100.02   FEE.
Each residential, commercial, and industrial premises shall pay a monthly fee
as outlined in the chart below for stormwater drainage system service provided
by the City.
 
             Beginning    Beginning    Beginning    Beginning    Beginning
     Current September 1, September 1, September 1, September 1, Setpember 1,
             2024         2025         2026         2027         2028
Rate $3.00   $3.09        $3.18        $3.28        $3.38        $3.48
 
(Section 100.02 – Ord. 263 – Sep. 24 Supp.)
100.03   PAYMENT OF BILLS.
The stormwater drainage utility fee shall be due and payable under the same
terms and conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as
contained in Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. All City services may be discontinued in
accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
100.04   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
The owner of the premises served, and any lessee or tenant thereof are jointly
and severally liable for charges for the operation and maintenance of the
stormwater drainage system. Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk
to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
100.05   USE OF FUNDS.
All revenues and moneys derived from the collection of the stormwater drainage
utility fee shall be paid to and held by the City separate and apart from all
other funds of the City, and all of said sums and all other funds and moneys
incident to the operation of said system, as may be delivered to the City,
shall be deposited in a separate fund designated the “Stormwater Fund,” and the
Council shall administer said fund in a manner provided by the Code of Iowa and
all other laws pertaining thereto.
(Section 100.05 – Ord. 264 – Sep. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 105
SOLID WASTE CONTROL.
 
105.01 Purpose                          105.07 Separation of Recycling
                                        Materials
105.02 Definitions                      105.08 Littering Prohibited
105.03 Sanitary Disposal Required       105.09 Toxic and Hazardous Waste
105.04 Health and Fire Hazard           105.10 Waste Storage Containers
105.05 Open Burning Restricted          105.11 Prohibited Practices
105.06 Separation of Yard and Landscape 105.12 Sanitary Disposal Project
Waste Required                          Designated
 
105.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of the chapters in this Code of Ordinances pertaining to Solid
Waste Control and Collection is to provide for the sanitary storage, collection
and disposal of solid waste and recycling and, thereby, to protect the citizens
of the City from such hazards to their health, safety and welfare as may result
from the uncontrolled disposal of solid waste.
105.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in these chapters the following terms are defined:
1.   “Collector” means any person authorized to gather solid waste and
recyclable materials from public and private places.
2.   “Discard” means to place, cause to be placed, throw, deposit or drop.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[1])
3.   “Dwelling unit” means any room or group of rooms located within a
structure and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used,
or are intended to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
4.   “Garbage” means all solid and semisolid, putrescible animal and vegetable
waste resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving and
consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all offal,
excluding useful industrial by-products, and includes all such substances from
all public and private establishments and from all residences.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
5.   “Landscape waste” means any vegetable or plant waste except garbage. The
term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves,
grass, shrubbery and yard trimmings, but does not include the fruit of the
vine.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
6.   “Litter” means any garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, waste materials, or
debris not exceeding 10 pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume. Litter
includes but is not limited to empty beverage containers, cigarette butts, food
waste packaging, other food or candy wrappers, handbills, empty cartons, or
boxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.361[2])
7.   “Multifamily dwelling” means a structure containing more than one dwelling
unit.
8.   “Newspapers” means printed matter on newsprint (including all inserts),
phone books, magazines, catalogs, office paper (white and pastel bond paper,
all computer paper, copy machine paper, white and pastel envelopes, white and
pastel forms, yellow legal pad paper, adding machine papers, telephone message
slips, letterhead paper, tablet and note pad paper, fax paper, newspapers, file
folders), boxboard containers (cereal boxes, gift boxes, shoe boxes and
envelope boxes), and junk mail (including window envelopes). If har covers are
removed from books, the books may be recycled.
9.   “Non-recyclable materials” means all material not having a present,
economic, reusable value. Examples include but are not limited to:
   A.   Window glass, mirrors, drinking glass, pottery and ceramics;
   B.   Light bulbs;
   C.   Plastic food containers with numbers three to seven on bottom, plastic
bags, Styrofoam products;
   D.   Toys, flower pots, waste baskets, laundry baskets or Tupperware type
products;
   E.   Metal pots and pans, small appliances, furniture, furnace filters and
aluminum siding;
   F.   Waxed paper and waxed cardboard;
   G.   Hard covers of books, carbon paper, food wrappers and containers, foil,
plastic and all other non-paper items, thermal fax paper, wax paper, tissue
paper and wood products;
   H.   Textiles and clothing, carpets, rugs, shoes and belts;
   I.   Garbage;
   J.   Rubbish; and
   K.   Tree limbs, stumps and brush placed in designated area at landfill.
10.   “Operator” means the person or agency authorized to conduct disposal
operations at a public sanitary disposal project or licensed private sanitary
disposal project.
11.   “Owner” means, in addition to the record titleholder, any person residing
in, renting, leasing, occupying, operating or transacting business in any
premises, and as between such parties the duties, responsibilities, liabilities
and obligations hereinafter imposed shall be joint and several.
12.   “Processing facility” means the site and equipment for the preliminary
and incomplete disposal of solid waste, including (but not limited to)
transfer, open burning, incomplete land disposal, incineration, composting,
recycling, reduction, shredding and compression.
13.   “Property served” means any property which is being used or occupied and
is eligible to receive solid waste collection and disposal service as provided
herein.
14.   “Recyclable material” means:
   A.   Newspapers, office paper, magazines and catalogs, boxboard and junk
mail;
   B.   Unwaxed, corrugated cardboard;
   C.   White goods which include stoves, refrigerators, washers and dryers,
water heaters, air conditioners, dishwashers and freezers;
   D.   Glass jars and bottles;
   E.   Cans;
   F.   Plastic jugs; and
   G.   Lead acid batteries.
15.   “Recycled materials” means any used material having an economic value in
the secondary materials market and includes aluminum cans and articles, bimetal
cans, glass containers, corrugated paper, computer printout paper, computer tab
cards, office paper, steel cans, newspaper, paper products not chemically
coated, plastic polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles, plastic high density
polyethylene (HDPE) containers and other materials designated by resolution or
ordinance of the Council as having value.
16.   “Recycling program” means a program to dispose of recycled materials as
established by resolution of the Council.
17.   “Refuse” means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including (but not
limited to) garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residues, street cleanings,
market and industrial solid waste and sewage treatment waste in dry or
semisolid form.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
18.   “Resident” means, in addition to any person residing in the City, any
person occupying or using any commercial, industrial or institutional premises
within the City.
19.   “Residential premises” means a single-family dwelling and any multiple-
family dwelling up to and including four separate dwelling units. Garden type
apartments and row type housing units shall be considered residential premises
regardless of the total number of such apartments or units which may be
included in a given housing development.
20.   “Residential waste” means any refuse generated on the premises as a
result of residential activities. The term includes landscape waste grown on
the premises or deposited thereon by the elements but excludes garbage, tires,
trade wastes and any locally recyclable goods or plastics.
(IAC, 567-20.2[455B])
21.   “Rubbish” means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and
non-combustible waste, such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery or litter of any kind.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
22.   “Sanitary disposal” means a method of treating solid waste so that it
does not produce a hazard to the public health or safety or create a nuisance.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
23.   “Sanitary disposal project” means all facilities and appurtenances
including all real and personal property connected with such facilities, which
are acquired, purchased, constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved,
extended, maintained, or operated to facilitate the final disposition of solid
waste without creating a significant hazard to the public health or safety, and
which are approved by the Director of the State Department of Natural
Resources.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
24.   “Scavenging” means the uncontrolled removal of materials from the
unloading or working area of a sanitary disposal project.
25.   “Single-family dwelling” means a structure containing one dwelling unit
only.
26.   “Site” means any location, place or tract of land used for collection,
storage, conversion, utilization, incineration or burial of solid waste.
27.   “Solid waste” means garbage, refuse, rubbish, and other similar discarded
solid or semisolid materials, including (but not limited to) such materials
resulting from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and domestic activities.
Solid waste may include vehicles, as defined by Section 321.1 of the Code of
Iowa. Solid waste does not include any of the following:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.301)
   A.   Hazardous waste regulated under the Federal Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921-6934.
   B.   Hazardous waste as defined in Section 455B.411 of the Code of Iowa,
except to the extent that rules allowing for the disposal of specific wastes
have been adopted by the State Environmental Protection Commission.
   C.   Source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined in the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended to January 1, 1979.
   D.   Petroleum contaminated soil that has been remediated to acceptable
State or federal standards.
   E.   Steel slag which is a product resulting from the steel manufacturing
process and is managed as an item of value in a controlled manner and not as a
discarded material.
105.03   SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
All owners or occupants of single family dwellings within the corporate limits
of the City shall participate in the disposal program for solid waste and
recycled material collection. It is the duty of each owner to provide for the
sanitary disposal of all refuse accumulating on the owner’s premises before it
becomes a nuisance. Any such accumulation remaining on any premises for a
period of more than 30 days shall be deemed a nuisance and the City may proceed
to abate such nuisances in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 50 or by initiating proper action in district court.
(Code of Iowa, Ch. 657)
105.04   HEALTH AND FIRE HAZARD.
It is unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any premises, improved
or vacant, or on any public place, such quantities of solid waste that
constitute a health, sanitation or fire hazard.
105.05   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED.
No person shall allow, cause or permit open burning of combustible materials
where the products of combustion are emitted into the open air without passing
through a chimney or stack, except that open burning is permitted in the
following circumstances:
(IAC, 567-23.2[455B] and 567-100.2)
1.   Disaster Rubbish. The open burning of rubbish, including landscape waste,
for the duration of the community disaster period in cases where an officially
declared emergency condition exists, provided that the burning of any
structures or demolished structures is conducted in accordance with 40 CFR
Section 61.145.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3a])
2.   Trees and Tree Trimmings. The open burning of trees and tree trimmings at
a City-operated burning site, provided such burning is conducted in compliance
with the rules established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3b])
3.   Flare Stacks. The open burning or flaring of waste gases, provided such
open burning or flaring is conducted in compliance with applicable rules of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3c])
4.   Landscape Waste. The disposal by open burning of landscape waste
originating on the premises, during such times as designated by the City
Administrator. However, the burning of landscape waste produced in clearing,
grubbing and construction operations shall be limited to areas located at least
one-fourth mile from any building inhabited by other than the landowner or
tenant conducting the open burning. Rubber tires shall not be used to ignite
landscape waste.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3d])
5.   Recreational Fires. Open fires for cooking, heating, recreation and
ceremonies, provided they comply with the limits for emission of visible air
contaminants established by the State Department of Natural Resources. Rubber
tires shall not be burned in a recreational fire.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3e])
6.   Training Fires. Fires set for the purpose of bona fide training of public
or industrial employees in firefighting methods, provided that the training
fires are conducted in compliance with rules established by the State
Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[3g])
7.   Controlled Burning of a Demolished Building. The controlled burning of a
demolished building by the City, subject to approval of the Council, provided
that the controlled burning is conducted in compliance with rules and
limitations established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
8.   Variance. Any person wishing to conduct open burning of materials not
permitted herein may make application for a variance to the Director of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
(IAC, 567-23.2[2])
105.06   SEPARATION OF YARD AND LANDSCAPE WASTE REQUIRED.
Owners or occupiers of residential premises, dwelling units, single dwelling
units, multiple family dwelling units, or any other property which is eligible
to receive solid waste collection and disposal service as provided under this
Code of Ordinances shall utilize one of the following methods in order to
dispose of yard waste, landscape waste, tree limbs and brush:
1.   Disposal of yard waste, landscape waste, tree limbs and brush, originating
on the premises referred to above, may be disposed on the premises by mulching,
composting or other similar method not in conflict with this Code of
Ordinances.
2.   Owners or occupiers of the premises referred to above may also transport
yard waste, landscape waste, tree limbs and brush originating on the premises
to a designated site at a sanitary disposal project or to a designated area
provided by the City for such disposal.
3.   Owners or occupiers of the premises referred to above may also contract
with a collector to dispose of yard waste, landscape waste, tree limbs and
brush originating on the premises.
4.   Owners or occupiers of the premises referred to above may also dispose of
yard waste, landscape waste, tree limbs and brush originating on the premises
by burning during designated periods as set pursuant to this Code of
Ordinances.
105.07   SEPARATION OF RECYCLING MATERIALS.
Every customer disposing of solid waste or recyclable materials shall separate
recyclable material from garbage, rubbish and other solid waste. This applies
to the owner or occupant of each residence or residential unit and the owner or
occupant of each nonresidential agricultural, commercial or industrial premises
authorized to place waste in the County landfill. Accepted recyclable materials
may differ as conditions warrant.
1.   Disposition of Recyclables. Recyclable materials shall not be placed in
the County sanitary landfill. Recyclable materials shall be placed in approved
containers for collection or shall be delivered to the recycling center or to
the containers at the sanitary landfill.
2.   Preparation and Placement of Recyclable Materials. Recyclable materials
shall be prepared for collection in the manner described below:
   A.   Newspapers and other paper as described in Section
105.02 shall be bundled, boxed or placed in the recyclable containers, either
curbside or at the recycling center.
   B.   Metal cans (aluminum or other) shall be rinsed and placed in the
recyclable container, either at curbside or at the recycling center.
   C.   Corrugated cardboard shall be flattened, bundled and placed in or under
the recyclable containers, either curbside or at the recycling center.
   D.   Tires shall be taken to the landfill proper. A disposal fee will be
assessed.
   E.   Motor vehicle batteries shall be taken to a salvage yard, returned to
the point of purchase or to designated area at the landfill.
   F.   Used oil shall be taken to designated landfill collection barrel.
   G.   HDPE and PET plastic shall be rinsed, metal and plastic rings removed,
and placed in the recyclable containers, either at curbside or at the recycling
center.
105.08   LITTERING PROHIBITED.
No person shall discard any litter onto or in any water or land, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authorized collection
and discarding of such litter in or on areas or receptacles provided for such
purpose. When litter is discarded from a motor vehicle, the driver of the motor
vehicle shall be responsible for the act in any case where doubt exists as to
which occupant of the motor vehicle actually discarded the litter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 455B.363)
105.09   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE.
No person shall deposit in a solid waste container or otherwise offer for
collection any toxic or hazardous waste. Such materials shall be transported
and disposed of as prescribed by the Director of the State Department of
Natural Resources. As used in this section, “toxic and hazardous waste” means
waste materials, including (but not limited to), poisons, pesticides,
herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological waste, flammable or explosive
materials and similar harmful waste which requires special handling and which
must be disposed of in such a manner as to conserve the environment and protect
the public health and safety.
(IAC, 567-100.2)
(IAC, 567-102.13[2] and 400-27.14[2])
105.10   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or renting any premises,
dwelling unit or any place where refuse accumulates shall provide and at all
times maintain in good order and repair portable containers for refuse in
accordance with the following:
1.   Container Specifications. Waste storage containers shall comply with the
following specifications:
   A.   Solid Waste. Solid waste, not including recyclable materials, shall be
placed in plastic bags and/or in tapered portable receptacles, 30 gallons or
smaller, made of substantial metal or plastic construction provided with at
least two handles and a tight-fitting cover. When filled, bags or containers
shall weigh no more than 50 pounds per bag or container.
   B.   Recyclables. Recyclable materials shall be placed in separate
containers for recyclables. Jars, bottles, aluminum products, tin cans and
plastic jugs (co-mingled items) should be placed in the bottom of the recycling
bin. Corrugated cardboard bundles should be placed on top, weighted down by
bagged or bundled paper products. Paper products should not be mixed with co-
mingled items.
   C.   Larger Quantities of Solid Waste. Persons disposing of large quantities
of solid waste and recyclable materials shall use separate, City- or County-
approved, marked and covered dumpsters for the separated solid waste and
recyclable materials.
2.   Storage of Containers. Residential solid waste and recycling containers
shall be stored upon the residential premises. Commercial solid waste
containers shall be stored upon private property, unless the owner has been
granted written permission from the City to use public property for such
purposes. The storage site shall be well drained; fully accessible to
collection equipment, public health personnel and fire inspection personnel.
All owners of residential and commercial premises shall be responsible for
proper storage of all garbage and yard waste to prevent materials from being
blown or scattered around neighboring yards and streets.
3.   Location of Containers for Collection. Containers for the storage of solid
waste awaiting collection shall be moved to the side of the alley or side of
the curb on the designated day of collection as mutually agreed upon between
the resident and the collector. Containers used for the collection of recycled
materials shall be set at the same place as solid waste containers if
collection is on the same day; however, if a separate day or time of collection
is set for the collection of recycled materials, the containers shall be set at
the side of the curb.
4.   Nonconforming Containers. Solid waste placed in containers which are not
in compliance with the provisions of this section will not be collected.
105.11   PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
It is unlawful for any person to:
1.   Unlawful Use of Containers. Deposit refuse in any solid waste containers
not owned by such person without the written consent of the owner of such
containers.
2.   Interfere with Collectors. Interfere in any manner with solid waste
collection equipment or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance
of their duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors be those of the
City, or those of any other authorized waste collection service.
3.   Unlawful Disposal. Dispose of refuse at any facility or location which is
not an approved sanitary disposal project.
4.   Unlawful Collection. Engage in the business of collecting, transporting,
processing or disposing of refuse within the City without a contract therefor
with the City.
5.   Incinerators. Burn rubbish or garbage except in incinerators designed for
high temperature operation, in which solid, semisolid, liquid or gaseous
combustible refuse is ignited and burned efficiently, and from which the solid
residues contain little or no combustible material, as acceptable to the
Environmental Protection Commission.
6.   Scavenging. Take or collect any solid waste which has been placed out for
collection on any premises, unless such person is an authorized solid waste
collector.
105.12   SANITARY DISPOSAL PROJECT DESIGNATED.
The sanitary landfill facilities operated by Cherokee County Solid Waste are
hereby designated as the official “Public Sanitary Disposal Project” for the
disposal of solid waste produced within the corporate limits of the City. A
“Public Sanitary Disposal Project” for the disposal of recycled materials shall
be set by resolution of the Council. No person may establish and operate a
private sanitary disposal project within the City.
CHAPTER 106
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE.
 
106.01 Collection Service      106.06 Right of Entry
106.02 Collection Vehicles     106.07 Contract Requirements
106.03 Loading                 106.08 Collection Fees
106.04 Frequency of Collection 106.09 Lien for Nonpayment
106.05 Bulky Rubbish
 
106.01   COLLECTION SERVICE.
The City shall provide by contract for the collection of solid waste and
recyclables, except bulky rubbish as provided in Section
106.05, from residential premises only. The owners or operators of commercial,
industrial or institutional premises shall provide for the collection of solid
waste produced upon such premises.
1.   Refusal of Service. The collector shall refuse to furnish collection
service to any person not complying with or refusing to comply with these
chapters for the collection of garbage, refuse and other solid waste and the
separation of recyclable materials.
2.   Collection by Unauthorized Persons. From the time of placement of
recyclable materials at the collection point for collection by the County or
its authorized agent, in accordance with the terms herein, recyclable materials
shall be and become the property of Ida County or its authorized agent. It
shall be a violation of this chapter for any person not authorized by the
County to collect or pick up or cause to be collected or picked up any such
recyclable materials. Any and each such collection in violation hereof from any
one recyclable material container shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
106.02   COLLECTION VEHICLES.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
and similar putrescible waste or solid waste containing such materials shall be
leakproof, durable and of easily cleanable construction. They shall be cleaned
to prevent nuisances, pollution or insect breeding and shall be maintained in
good repair.
(IAC, 567-104.9[455B])
106.03   LOADING.
Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of any solid
waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents will not
fall, leak, or spill therefrom, and shall be covered to prevent blowing or loss
of material. Where spillage does occur, the material shall be picked up
immediately by the collector or transporter and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
106.04   FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
All solid waste shall be collected from residential premises at least once each
week and from commercial, industrial and institutional premises as frequently
as may be necessary, but not less than once each week. Frequency of collection
of recycled materials shall be set by resolution of the Council.
106.05   BULKY RUBBISH.
Bulky rubbish which is too large or heavy to be collected in the normal manner
of other solid waste may be collected by the collector upon request in
accordance with procedures therefor established by the Council.
106.06   RIGHT OF ENTRY.
Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property for
the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom as required by this chapter;
however, solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other
residential buildings.
106.07   CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing
or disposing of solid waste from residential premises for the City without
first entering into a contract with the City. This section does not prohibit an
owner from transporting solid waste accumulating upon premises owned, occupied
or used by such owner, provided such refuse is disposed of properly in an
approved sanitary disposal project. Furthermore, a contract is not required for
the removal, hauling, or disposal of earth and rock material from grading or
excavation activities, provided that all such materials are conveyed in tight
vehicles, trucks or receptacles so constructed and maintained that none of the
material being transported is spilled upon any public right-of-way.
106.08   COLLECTION FEES.
The collection and disposal of solid waste and recycled materials as provided
by this chapter are declared to be beneficial to the property served or
eligible to be served and there shall be levied and collected fees therefor in
accordance with the following:
(Goreham vs. Des Moines, 1970, 179 NW 2nd, 449)
1.   Schedule of Fees. The fees for solid waste and recyclable material
collection and disposal, used or available, are:
   A.   Residential Household. Each residential household shall pay a monthly
rate according to the table below for solid waste collection:
 
             Beginning    Beginning    Beginning    Beginning    Beginning
     Current September 1, September 1, September 1, September 1, September 1,
             2024         2025         2026         2027         2028
Rate $20.50  $22.75       $23.43       $24.13       $24.85       $25.60
 
(Subsection 1 – Ord. 262 – Sep. 24 Supp.)
2.   Payment of Bills. All fees are due and payable under the same terms and
conditions provided for payment of a combined service account as contained in
Section
92.04 of this Code of Ordinances. Solid waste collection service may be
discontinued in accordance with the provisions contained in Section
92.05 if the combined service account becomes delinquent, and the provisions
contained in Section
92.08 relating to lien notices shall also apply in the event of a delinquent
account.
3.   Diesel Fuel Surcharge. The actual costs of any fuel surcharge incurred by
the City subsequent to the Diesel Fuel Surcharge Agreement enacted February 1,
2001, shall be collected in the same manner as the solid waste fees and
charges.
106.09   LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
Except as provided for in Section
92.07 of this Code of Ordinances, the owner of the premises served and any
lessee or tenant thereof are jointly and severally liable for fees for solid
waste collection and disposal. Fees remaining unpaid and delinquent shall
constitute a lien upon the premises served and shall be certified by the Clerk
to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as property taxes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.84)
CHAPTER 110
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
110.01 Grant of Franchise           110.11 Applicable Regulations
110.02 Rights and Privileges        110.12 Quantity and Quality
110.03 Pipes and Mains              110.13 Police Regulations
110.04 Construction and Maintenance 110.14 Franchise Fee
110.05 Excavations                  110.15 Management Fees
110.06 Utility Easements            110.16 Termination
110.07 Relocation Not Required      110.17 Severability
110.08 Relocation Reimbursement     110.18 Jury Trail
110.09 Indemnification              110.19 Effective and Binding
110.10 Information                  110.20 Effective Date
 
110.01   GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
(hereinafter called “Company”), and to its successors and assigns the right and
non-exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in
the City of Holstein, Iowa, (hereinafter called the “City”), a gas distribution
system, to furnish natural gas along, under and upon the right-of-way, streets,
avenues, alleys and public places to serve customers within and without the
City and to furnish and sell natural gas to the City and its inhabitants. For
the term of this franchise, the Company is granted the right of eminent domain,
the exercise of which is subject to City Council approval upon application by
the Company. This franchise shall be effective for a twenty-five (25) year
period from and after the effective date of this ordinance. †   
 
Notes
EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 257, adopting a natural gas franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on June 11, 2024
110.02   RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa 2023, or as subsequently amended
or changed.
110.03   PIPES AND MAINS.
Company shall have the right to excavate in any public street for the purpose
of laying, relaying, repairing or extending gas pipes, mains, conduits, and
other facilities provided that the same shall be so placed as not to
unreasonably interfere with any above or below-ground utility services or
facilities which have been or may hereafter be located by or under authority of
the City.
110.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
The Company shall, excluding facilities located in private easements or public
utility easements (whether titled in Company exclusively or in Company and
other entities), in accordance with Iowa law including Company’s tariff on file
with and made effective by the Iowa Utilities Board as may subsequently be
amended (“Tariff”), at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its existing
facilities or equipment in, on, over or under any public street or alley in the
City in such a manner as the City may reasonably require for the purposes of
facilitating the construction reconstruction, maintenance or repair of the
street or alley. The Company shall not be required to pay any City permits as
needed as a result of City required relocation. Relocation expenses for other
hard surfaces, including pedestrian and non-motorized vehicle pathways, will be
paid by the City. If the City has a reasonable alternative route for the
street, alley or public improvements or an alternative construction method,
which would not cause the relocation of the Company installations, the City
shall select said alternative route, or construction method. The City shall be
responsible for surveying and staking the right-of-way for City projects that
require the Company to relocate Company facilities. If requested the City shall
provide, at no cost to the Company, copies of its relocation plan and profile
and cross section drawings. If tree and vegetation removal must be completed by
the City as part of the City’s project and are necessary whether or not utility
facilities must be relocated, the City at its own cost shall be responsible for
said removals. If the timing of the tree/vegetation removal does not coincide
with the Company facilities relocation schedule and Company must remove trees/
vegetation that are included in the City’s portion of the project, the City
shall either remove the material at its cost or reimburse the Company for the
expenses incurred to remove said vegetation or trees. If project funds from a
source other than the City are available to pay for the relocation of utility
facilities, the City shall attempt to secure said funds and provide them to the
Company to compensate the Company for the costs of relocation.
110.05   EXCAVATIONS.
In making excavations in any streets, avenues, alleys and public places for the
installation of gas pipes, conduits or apparatus, Company shall not
unreasonably obstruct the use of the streets and shall replace the surface,
restoring it to the condition as existed immediately prior to excavation.
Company agrees any replacement of road surface shall conform to current City
Code regarding its depth and composition. The Company shall not be required to
restore or modify public right of way, sidewalks or other areas in or adjacent
to the Company project to a condition superior to its immediate previously
existing condition or to a condition exceeding its previously existing
condition to the extent any alterations are required for the City to comply
with City, State or federal rules, regulations or laws.
110.06   UTILITY EASEMENTS.
The City’s vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground or public right-of-
way shall not deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain existing
facilities on, below, above, or beneath the vacated property. Prior to the City
abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley or public ground where the
Company has facilities in the vicinity, the City shall provide Company with not
less than sixty (60) days advance notice of the City’s proposed action and,
upon request grant the Company a utility easement covering existing and future
facilities and activities. If the City fails to grant the Company a utility
easement for said facilities prior to abandoning or vacating a street, avenue,
alley or public ground, the City shall at its cost and expense obtain easements
for the existing Company facilities.
110.07   RELOCATION NOT REQUIRED.
The Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense, Company
facilities in the public right of way that have been relocated at Company
expense at the direction of the City at any time during the previous ten (10)
years.
110.08   RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT.
Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities as may be required here under, if
the City orders or requests the Company to relocate its existing facilities or
equipment in order to directly or indirectly facilitate the project of a
commercial or private developer or other non-public entity, City shall
reimburse or the City shall require the developer or non-public entity to
reimburse the Company for the cost of such relocation as a precondition to
relocation. The Company shall not be required to relocate in order to
facilitate such private project at its expense.
110.09   INDEMNIFICATION.
The Company shall indemnify and save harmless the City from any and all claims,
suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, on account of injury or damage to
any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the Company’s
negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation or
maintenance of the natural gas facilities authorized by this franchise;
provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify
and save harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent arising from
the negligence of the City, its officers, employees or agents.
110.10   INFORMATION.
Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right of way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in the public right of way, including documents,
maps and other information in paper or electronic or other forms
(“Information”). The Company and City recognize the Information may in whole or
part be considered a confidential record under State or federal law or both.
Upon receipt of a request from a third party for information concerning
information about the Company’s facilities within the City, the City will
promptly submit same to Company. If the Company believes any of the information
requested constitutes a trade secret which may otherwise be protected from
public disclosure by State or federal law, or otherwise exempt from disclosure
under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission Critical Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to
18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes
and regulations may be amended from time to time, then the Company shall
provide the City with a written explanation of the basis for such assertion of
confidentiality or exemption from disclosure within ten (10) days.
110.11   APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
The Company shall extend its mains and pipes and operate, and maintain the
system in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities
Board or its successors and Iowa law.
110.12   QUANTITY AND QUALITY.
During the term of this franchise, the Company shall furnish natural gas in the
quantity and quality consistent and in accordance with the applicable
regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board the Company’s tariff made effective by
the Iowa Utilities Board or its successors and Iowa law.
110.13   POLICE REGULATIONS.
All reasonable and proper police regulations shall be adopted and enforced by
the City for the protection of the facilities of the Company.
110.14   FRANCHISE FEE.
A franchise fee of one (1) percent is imposed upon, and shall be collected
from, the natural gas customers of the Company receiving service and located
within the corporate limits of the City. The franchise fee shall be imposed
upon the gross receipts, minus uncollectible accounts, generated from sales of
natural gas and distribution service with the following conditions.
1.   The franchise fee shall be remitted by the Company to the City on or
before the last business day of the calendar quarter following the close of the
calendar quarter in which the franchise fee is charged.
2.   City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed only once in any
24-month period.
3.   The Company will use its best efforts to commence collection of franchise
fees on or before the first Company billing cycle of the first calendar month
following ninety (90) days of receipt of information required of the City to
implement the franchise fee, including the City’s documentation of customer
classes subject to or exempted from City-imposed franchise fee.
4.   City shall be solely responsible for identifying customer classes subject
to or exempt from paying the City imposed franchise fee. The Company shall have
no obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in annexed areas until
and unless such ordinances have been provided to the Company by certified mail.
The Company shall commence collecting franchise fees in the annexed areas no
sooner than sixty (60) days after receiving annexation ordinances from the
City.
5.   Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or refund
any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted to the
City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or information in
defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the Company is required
to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating any franchise fee
refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall reimburse the
Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such data or
information.
6.   With respect to the distribution or transportation by the Company of
natural gas sold to the customer by a third-party supplier of the commodity,
the percentage of gross receipts shall be applied to the customer’s full cost
of gas delivered within the City, including all costs of acquisition,
ownership, and transportation whereof, wherever incurred. In determining the
amount of the fee, the Company may presume that the customer’s commodity cost
of gas is the same as if the gas were sold by the Company, unless a different
cost is provided.
110.15   MANAGEMENT FEES.
Upon implementation of a franchise fee, the City shall not, pursuant to Chapter
480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose or charge Company right of way management
fees for permits for Company construction, maintenance, repairs, excavation,
pavement cutting or inspections of Company work sites and projects or related
matters.
110.16   TERMINATION.
Either City or Company (“party”) may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non-breaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have sixty (60) days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the
non-breaching party, and the parties agree upon a shorter or longer period for
cure. If the breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching
party may terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in
breach of this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or federal
law. A party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the
alleged breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other
party.
110.17   SEVERABILITY.
If any section, provision, or part of this ordinance shall be adjudged to be
invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of
the ordinance as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof not
adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
110.18   JURY TRIAL.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, each of the parties hereto waives any
right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of litigation directly or
indirectly arising out of, under or in connection with this Agreement. Each
party further waives any right to consolidate any action in which a jury trial
has been waived with any other action in which a jury trial cannot be or has
not been waived.
110.19   EFFECTIVE AND BINDING.
This ordinance and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with Iowa law
and the written acceptance by the Company. The City shall provide Company with
an original signed and sealed copy of this ordinance within ten (10) days of
its final passage. The Company shall, within thirty (30) days after the City
Council approval of this ordinance, file in the office of the Clerk of the
City, its acceptance in writing of all the terms and provisions of this
ordinance. Following City Council approval, this ordinance shall be published
in accordance with the Code of Iowa. The effective date of this ordinance shall
be the date of publication. In the event that the Company does not file written
acceptance of this ordinance within thirty (30) days after its approval by the
City Council this ordinance shall be void and of no effect.
110.20   EFFECTIVE DATE.
Upon the effective date of this ordinance, all prior natural gas franchises
granted to the Company to furnish natural gas to the City and its inhabitants
are hereby repealed and all other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict
herewith are also hereby repealed.
(Chapter 110 – Ord. 257 – Sep. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 111
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
111.01 Franchise Granted            111.11 Information
111.02 Rights and Privileges        111.12 Applicable Regulations
111.03 Poles and Wires              111.13 Franchise Fee
111.04 Construction and Maintenance 111.14 Managemetn Fees
111.05 Excavations                  111.15 Binding
111.06 Utility Easements            111.16 Termination
111.07 Relocation Not Required      111.17 Severability
111.08 Relocation Reimbursement     111.18 Jury Trial
111.09 Indemnifcation               111.19 Effective and Binding
111.10 Pruning and Vegetation       111.20 Effective Date
 
111.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
There is hereby granted to MidAmerican Energy Company, an Iowa corporation,
(hereinafter called “Company”), and its successors and assigns, the right and
non-exclusive franchise to acquire, construct, erect, maintain and operate in
the City of Holstein, Iowa, (hereinafter called the “City”), a system for the
transmission and distribution of electric energy and communications signals
along, under, over and upon the streets, avenues, rights of way and alleys to
serve customers within the City, and to furnish and sell electric energy to the
City and its inhabitants. The Company is granted the right to exercise of
powers of eminent domain, subject to City Council approval. This franchise
shall be effective for a twenty-five (25) year period from and after the
effective date of this ordinance. †   
 
Notes
EDITOR’S NOTE:  Ordinance No. 258, adopting an electric franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on June 11, 2024.
111.02   RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
The rights and privileges hereby granted are subject to the restrictions and
limitations of Chapter 364 of the Code of Iowa 2023 or as subsequently amended
or changed.
111.03   POLES AND WIRES.
The Company shall have the right to erect all necessary poles and to place
thereon the necessary wires, fixtures and accessories as well as to excavate
and bury conduits or conductors for the distribution of electric energy and
communications signals in and through the City, provided the same shall be
placed in accord with this franchise and City Code regulations of the City,
regarding the placement of structures, facilities, accessories or other objects
in the right of way, including ordinances which assign corridors or other
placements to users of the right of way and requirements which may be adopted
regarding separation of structures, facilities, accessories or other objects.
111.04   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
The Company shall, excluding facilities located in private easements or public
utility easements (whether titled in Company exclusively or in Company and
other entities), in accordance with Iowa law including Company’s Tariff on file
with and made effective by the Iowa Utilities Board as may subsequently be
amended (“Tariff”), at its cost and expense, locate and relocate its existing
installations located in, on, over or under the right-of-way of any public
street, right of way or alley in the City in such a manner as the City may
require for the purposes of facilitating the construction, reconstruction,
maintenance or repair of the street right of way or alley. The Company shall
not be required to pay any City permits as needed as a result of City required
relocation. If the City has a reasonable alternative route for the street,
right of way or alley or an alternative construction method, which would not
cause the relocation of Company installations or would minimize the cost or
expense of relocation of Company installations, the City and Company shall work
together to consider said alternative route or construction method. The City
shall, in the extension or modification of streets and roads, make provision
for the placement of company service lines and facilities on City-owned right
of way without charge to Company. In planning for the extension or modification
of streets, the City shall, to the extent practicable design such changes to
limit the need for relocation of Company facilities. The City shall be
responsible for surveying and staking the right-of-way for City projects that
require the Company to relocate Company facilities. If requested, the City
shall provide, at no cost to the Company, copies of the relocation plan and
profile and cross section drawings. If vegetation and tree removals must be
completed by the City as part of the City’s project and are necessary whether
or not utility facilities must be relocated, the City at its own cost shall be
responsible for said removals. If the timing of vegetation and tree removals
does not coincide with Company’s facilities relocation schedule and the Company
must remove vegetation and trees that are included in the City’s portion of the
project, the City shall either remove them or reimburse the Company for the
expenses incurred to remove said materials. If project funds from a source
other than the City are available to pay for the relocation of utility
facilities, the City shall use its best efforts to secure said funds and
provide them to the Company to compensate the Company for the costs of
relocation.
111.05   EXCAVATIONS.
In making excavations in any streets, avenues and public places for the
installation, maintenance or repair of conductor, conduits or the erection of
poles and wires or other appliances, the Company shall not unreasonably
obstruct the use of the streets. The Company in making such excavations shall,
if required by ordinance, obtain a City permit therefore and provide City
representatives with advance notice prior to the actual commencement of the
work, and shall comply with all provisions and requirements of the City in its
regulation of the use of City right of way in performing such work. In
emergencies which require immediate excavation, the Company may proceed with
the work without first applying for or obtaining the permit, provided, however,
that Company shall apply for and obtain the excavation permit as soon as
possible after commencing such emergency work. The Company shall comply with
all provisions and requirements of the City in its regulation of the use of
City right of way in performing such work. The Company shall comply with all
City ordinances regarding paving cuts, placement of facilities and restoration
of pavement and other public infrastructure. The Company shall replace the
surface, restoring the condition as existed prior to the Company’s excavation
but shall not be required to improve or modify the public right of way,
sidewalks or other areas in or adjacent to the Company project to a condition
superior to its immediate previously existing condition. Company shall complete
all repairs in a timely manner. Company agrees any replacement of road surface
shall conform to current City ordinances regarding its depth and composition.
111.06   UTILITY EASEMENTS.
Vacating a street, avenue, alley, public ground or public right-of-way shall
not deprive the Company of its right to operate and maintain existing
facilities and their replacements on, below, above, or beneath the vacated
property. Prior to the City abandoning or vacating any street, avenue, alley or
public ground where the Company has electric facilities, the City shall grant
the Company a utility easement for said facilities. If the City fails to grant
the Company a utility easement for said facilities prior to abandoning or
vacating a street, avenue, alley or public ground, the City shall at its cost
and expense obtain easements for the existing Company facilities.
111.07   RELOCATION NOT REQUIRED.
The Company shall not be required to relocate, at its cost and expense, Company
facilities in the public right of way that have been relocated at Company
expense at the direction of the City in the previous ten (10) years.
111.08   RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT.
Pursuant to relocation of Company facilities, if the City orders or requests
the Company to relocate its existing facilities or equipment in order to
directly facilitate a project for the primary benefit of a commercial or
private developer or other non-public entity, the City shall require the
developer or non-public entity to reimburse the Company for the cost of such
relocation as a precondition to relocation of its existing facilities or
equipment. The Company shall not be required to relocate in order to facilitate
such private project at its expense.
111.09   INDEMNIFICATION.
The Company shall indemnify, save and hold harmless the City from any and all
claims, suits, losses, damages, costs or expenses, on account of injury or
damage to any person or property, to the extent caused or occasioned by the
Company’s negligence in construction, reconstruction, excavation, operation or
maintenance of the electric facilities authorized by this franchise; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be obligated to defend, indemnify and save
harmless the City for any costs or damages to the extent arising from the
negligence of the City, its officers, employees or agents.
111.10   PRUNING AND VEGETATION.
The pruning and removal of vegetation and trees shall be done in accordance
with current nationally accepted safety and utility industry standards and
federal and State law, rules and regulations. The Company is authorized and
empowered to prune or remove at Company expense, any tree extending into any
street, avenue, right of way, alley, public place or public grounds to maintain
electric reliability, safety, to restore utility service and to prevent limbs,
branches, or trunks from interfering with the wires and facilities of the
Company. The pruning and removal of vegetation and trees shall be completed in
accordance with nationally accepted safety and utility standards, NSI Z133.1-
2012, American National Standard for Arboricultural Operations-Safety
Requirements, and ANSI A300(Part 1) – 2008 Pruning, (Revision of ANSI A300 Part
1-2001) American National Standard for Tree, Shrub, and other Woody Plant
Management – Standard of Practices (Pruning) or subsequent revisions to these
standards, and City ordinances regarding the pruning of trees that incorporate
by reference that standard.
111.11   INFORMATION.
Upon reasonable request, the Company shall provide the City, on a project
specific basis, information indicating the horizontal location, relative to
boundaries of the right of way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it
has control that is located in City right of way, including documents, maps and
other information in paper or electronic or other forms (“Information”). The
Company and City recognize the Information may in whole or part be considered a
confidential record under State or federal law or both. Therefore, City shall
not release any Information without prior consent of the Company and shall
return the Information to Company upon request. City recognizes that Company
claims the Information may constitute a trade secret or is otherwise protected
from public disclosure by State or federal law on other grounds, and agrees to
retain the Information in its non-public files. Furthermore the City agrees
that no documents, maps or other Information provided to the City by the
Company shall be made available to the public or other entities if such
documents or Information are exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the
Freedom of Information Act, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Critical
Energy Infrastructure requirements pursuant to 18 CFR 388.112 and 388.113, or
Chapter 22 of the Code of Iowa, as such statutes and regulations may be amended
from time to time. In the event any action at law, in equity or administrative
is brought against the City regarding disclosure of any document which the
Company has designated as a trade secret or as otherwise protected from
disclosure, the Company shall assume, upon request of the City, the defense of
said action and reimburse the City any and all costs, including attorney fees
and penalties to the extent allowed by law.
111.12   APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
The Company shall construct, operate and maintain its facilities in accordance
with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board or its successors
and Iowa law. During the term of this franchise the Company shall furnish
electric energy in the quantity and quality consistent with and in accordance
with the applicable regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board, the Company’s
tariff and made effective by the Iowa Utilities Board or its successors and
Iowa law.
111.13   FRANCHISE FEE.
There is hereby imposed upon the customers a franchise fee of one (1) percent
upon the gross revenues, minus uncollectible accounts, generated from sales of
electricity and distribution service, pursuant to the Tariff, by the Company
within the corporate limits of the City. The franchise fee shall be remitted by
the Company to the City on or before the last business day of the calendar
quarter following the close of the calendar quarter in which the franchise fee
is charged.
1.   City agrees to modify the level of franchise fees imposed only once in any
24-month period.
2.   Company will use its best efforts to commence collection of franchise fees
on or before the first Company billing cycle of the first calendar month
following ninety (90) days of receipt of information required of the City to
implement the franchise fee, including the City’s documentation of customer
classes subject to or exempted from City-imposed franchise fee.
3.   City shall be solely responsible for identifying customer classes subject
to or exempt from paying the City imposed franchise fee. The Company shall have
no obligation to collect franchise fees from customers in annexed areas until
and unless such ordinances have been provided to the Company by certified mail.
The Company shall commence collecting franchise fees in the annexed areas no
sooner than sixty (60) days after receiving annexation ordinances from the
City.
4.   Company shall not, under any circumstances be required to return or refund
any franchise fees that have been collected from customers and remitted to the
City. In the event the Company is required to provide data or information in
defense of the City’s imposition of franchise fees or the Company is required
to assist the City in identifying customers or calculating any franchise fee
refunds for groups of or individual customers the City shall reimburse the
Company for the expenses incurred by the Company to provide such data or
information.
111.14   MANAGEMENT FEES.
The City shall not, pursuant to Chapter 480A.6 of the Code of Iowa, impose or
charge right of way management fees upon the Company or fees for permits for
Company construction, maintenance, repairs, excavation, pavement cutting or
inspections of Company work sites and projects or related matters.
111.15   BINDING.
This franchise shall apply to and bind the City and Company and their
successors and assigns.
111.16   TERMINATION.
Either City or Company (“party”) may terminate this franchise if the other
party shall be materially in breach of its provisions. Upon the occurrence of a
material breach, the non-breaching party shall provide the breaching party with
notification by certified mail specifying the alleged breach. The breaching
party shall have sixty (60) days to cure the breach, unless it notifies the
non-breaching party, and the parties agree upon a longer period for cure. If
the breach is not cured within the cure period, the non-breaching party may
terminate this franchise. A party shall not be considered to be in breach of
this franchise if it has operated in compliance with State or federal law. A
party shall not be considered to have breached this franchise if the alleged
breach is the result of the actions of a third party or the other party.
111.17   SEVERABILITY.
If any of the provisions of this franchise ordinance are for any reason
declared to be illegal or void, the lawful provisions of this franchise
ordinance, which are severable from said unlawful provisions, shall be and
remain in full force and effect, the same as if the franchise ordinance
contained no illegal or void provisions.
111.18   JURY TRAIL.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, each of the parties hereto waives any
right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of litigation directly or
indirectly arising out of, under or in connection with this Agreement. Each
party further waives any right to consolidate any action in which a jury trial
has been waived with any other action in which a jury trial cannot be or has
not been waived.
111.19   EFFECTIVE AND BINDING.
This ordinance and the rights and privileges herein granted shall become
effective and binding upon its approval and passage in accordance with Iowa law
and the written acceptance by the Company. The City shall provide Company with
an original signed and sealed copy of this ordinance within 10 days of its
final passage. The Company shall, within thirty (30) days after the City
Council approval of this ordinance, file in the office of the Clerk of the
City, its acceptance in writing of all the terms and provisions of this
ordinance. Following City Council approval, this ordinance shall be published
in accordance with the Code of Iowa. The effective date of this ordinance shall
be the date of publication. In the event Company does not file its written
acceptance of this ordinance within thirty (30) days after its approval by the
City Council, this ordinance shall be void and of no effect.
111.20   EFFECTIVE DATE.
Upon the effective date of this ordinance, all prior franchises granted to the
Company to furnish electric service to the City and its inhabitants are hereby
repealed and all other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith
are also hereby repealed.
(Chapter 111 – Ord. 258 – Sep. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 112
TELEPHONE FRANCHISE
 
112.01 Franchise Granted            112.04 Trimming of Trees
112.02 Location of Poles            112.05 Franchise Subject to Authority of
                                    City
112.03 Repair of Sidewalk or Street 112.06 Hold Harmless
Pavement
 
112.01   FRANCHISE GRANTED.
Vista Telephone Company of Iowa, an Iowa corporation, its lessees, successors
and assigns (hereinafter referred to as the “Grantee”), are hereby granted the
nonexclusive franchise, right and privilege for a period of 25 years to use the
streets, alleys, bridges and other public places of the City for the purpose of
erecting, maintaining and operating a telephone system, including all necessary
appurtenances, and to use jointly or otherwise the property of other companies
and permit other companies to use its property under such arrangements as such
companies and the Grantee may agree upon.
112.02   LOCATION OF POLES.
The location of poles by the Grantee under authority of this chapter shall be
subject to the supervision of the Director of Public Works or such other
official as the Council may designate. All poles shall be neat and symmetrical
and be so located as to minimize interference with the safety or convenience of
persons traveling the streets, alleys, bridges and other public places.
112.03   REPAIR OF SIDEWALK OR STREET PAVEMENT.
The Grantee shall properly repair any sidewalk or street surface which may be
displaced or damaged by it in the erection and maintenance of its telephone
system. Upon the failure of the Grantee to do so and after 20 days’ notice in
writing given by the Mayor to the Grantee, the City may repair or replace such
portion of the sidewalk or street surface as may have been disturbed by the
Grantee and collect the costs so incurred from the Grantee.
112.04   TRIMMING OF TREES.
The Grantee shall be permitted to trim trees wherever necessary for the safe
and efficient operation of said telephone system.
112.05   FRANCHISE SUBJECT TO AUTHORITY OF CITY.
The Grantee agrees for and on behalf of itself, its lessees, successors and
assigns that all authority and rights granted in this chapter shall be subject
to all rights, powers and authority now or hereafter possessed by the City to
regulate, control and direct or otherwise by ordinance or resolution legislate
concerning the exercise of the franchise herein granted and concerning the
manner in which the Grantee shall use the streets, alleys, bridges and other
public places of the City.
112.06   HOLD HARMLESS.
The Grantee shall hold the City harmless of any and all causes of action,
litigation or damage occurring through or by reason of the construction,
maintenance and operation of said telephone system authorized hereby.
CHAPTER 113
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE.
113.01 Definitions                        113.16 Surface Repair
113.02 Grant of Nonexclusive Authority    113.17 Other Franchise Holders
113.03 Territorial Area Involved          113.18 Street Changes
113.04 Technical Standards                113.19 Moving Buildings in City
113.05 Service Available During Emergency 113.20 Trimming Trees
113.06 Transfer of Franchise              113.21 Underground Cable
113.07 Unauthorized Cable System Tapping  113.22 Repairs
113.08 Indemnity                          113.23 Service to Schools
113.09 Furnishing Service                 113.24 Service to City
113.10 Location of Equipment              113.25 Public Access Channel
113.11 Equipment of Other Franchise       113.26 System Upgrade
Holders
113.12 Plat of Installations              113.27 Compliance with Regulatory
                                          Ordinance
113.13 Schedule of Rates                  113.28 Qualification
113.14 Conformance with Codes             113.29 Duration of Franchise
113.15 Location of Lines                  113.30 Complaints
 
113.01   DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations have the meanings given herein.
1.   “Cable television and telephone system” or “cable system” is a system
utilizing fiber optic (glass) cable, coaxial cable or other comparable or
superior media and certain electronic and other components which deliver to
subscribing members of the public various communications services.
2.   “Cable television service” or “service” means the delivery by the Grantee
to television receivers (or any other suitable type of audio-video
communications receivers) of the signals of over-the-air television broadcast
stations, satellite programming services and other video programming sources
authorized for transmission over cable television systems by the Federal
Communications Commission and additional closed-circuit channels at the option
of the Grantee.
3.   “Cable telephone service” means the delivery to and receipt from
telephones, computers, fax machines and other devices capable of receiving or
transmitting such signals, of voice, data and other communications or
transmissions.
4.   “Cable service” means cable television service and cable telephone
service.
5.   “FCC” means the Federal Communications Commission.
6.   “Grantee” is Comserv, Ltd., in accordance with the provisions of the
franchise.
7.   “Person” is any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind and any other legally recognized entity.
8.   “Subscribers” are those persons contracting to receive any type of service
that Grantee may offer.
113.02   GRANT OF NONEXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY.
There is hereby granted by the City to Grantee the nonexclusive franchise,
right and privilege to construct, erect, operate and maintain in, upon, along,
across, above, over and under the streets, alleys, public ways and public
places now laid out or dedicated and all extensions thereof, and additions
thereto, in the City, poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and
other television and telephone conductors and fixtures necessary for the
maintenance and operation in the City of a cable television and/or telephone
system for the purpose of distributing and receiving television, telephone and
radio signals and other electronic impulses in order to furnish cable service
to the public.
113.03   TERRITORIAL AREA INVOLVED.
The franchise relates to the present territorial limits of the City and to any
area henceforth added thereto during the term of the franchise.
113.04   TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
Grantee shall at all times comply with all rules and regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission and any other duly authorized agency of the United
States of America, all laws duly enacted now or hereafter by the United States
Congress and all regulations of the Iowa Utilities Board. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, the cable television system shall meet all
applicable FCC technical standards as of the effective date of the franchise
and shall conform to such standards and all amendments thereto during the term
of the franchise. This chapter shall be deemed conformed, without further
action of the Council or Grantee, to any and all rules and regulations relating
to the required terms of cable television franchises which are now in effect or
which may hereafter be adopted by the FCC or any other duly authorized agency
of the United States of America, as of the effective date thereof
113.05   SERVICE AVAILABLE DURING EMERGENCY.
In the case of an emergency or disaster, the Grantee shall, upon request of the
Council, make available its facilities to the City for emergency use during the
emergency or disaster period.
113.06   TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
The Grantee shall have the right to transfer the franchise only with the
approval of the Council, upon 120 days’ written notice served to the Council.
113.07   UNAUTHORIZED CABLE SYSTEM TAPPING.
1.   Unauthorized Service Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to obtain
any cable service from Grantee by installing, rearranging or tampering with any
facilities or equipment of Grantee, unless the same is done with the knowledge
of and with the permission of the Grantee.
2.   Penalty For Violation of This Section. Any person found guilty of a
violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
113.08   INDEMNITY.
Grantee shall at all times protect, indemnify, and hold harmless the City from
all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, expense or damage of any and every
kind and description, including investigation costs, court costs and attorney
fees, which may accrue to or be suffered or claimed by any person arising out
of any negligence, fault or misconduct of the Grantee, its agents, officers,
servants and employees, including (but not limited to) construction, repair,
maintenance or operation of the cable system and by reason of any license,
copyright, property right, patent or worker’s compensation claims. Grantee
shall maintain in full force and effect liability insurance in one or more
solvent insurance companies authorized to do business in Iowa insuring the City
and Grantee with regard to all damages and claims in reasonable amounts to be
determined from time to time by the Council. The initial amount of liability
insurance required shall be $1,000,000 per claim. Upon request of the Council,
Grantee shall provide a complete copy of the policies then in effect to the
Council.
113.09   FURNISHING SERVICE.
1.   Television Service. Grantee shall, during the period of the franchise,
furnish reasonable, adequate and efficient cable television service to the
residents of the City; and Grantee shall maintain its cable television system
in reasonable repair and working order and provide adequate facilities for such
maintenance. The requirements of this subsection shall be temporarily suspended
in the event such suspension is required for maintenance or improvement of
Grantee’s cable system or in the event of natural disaster or emergency
conditions or other circumstances beyond the control of Grantee.
2.   Telephone Service. Grantee may, but is not required to, furnish cable
telephone service to the residents of the City. However, once Grantee begins
offering cable telephone service to residents of the City, Grantee shall
furnish reasonable, adequate and efficient cable telephone service to the
residents of the City. Grantee shall maintain its cable telephone system in
reasonable repair and working order and provide adequate facilities for such
maintenance. The requirements of this subsection shall be temporarily suspended
in the event such suspension is required for maintenance or improvement of
Grantee’s cable system or in the event of natural disaster or emergency
conditions or other circumstances beyond the control of Grantee.
113.10   LOCATION OF EQUIPMENT.
Grantee’s plant and equipment, including the antenna site, headend,
distribution system, structures, poles, wires, underground cable, and
appurtenances shall be installed in accordance with good engineering practices,
and shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed,
repaired, maintained and operated so as not to endanger or interfere with the
lives or property of persons or other franchise holders or to interfere with
the improvements the City may deem proper to make, or to unnecessarily hinder
or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic to public ways, places and
structures. Erection, installation, construction, replacement, removal, repair,
maintenance and operation of the system shall be in accordance with the
provisions of the National Electrical Code and National Electric Safety Code
(as the same may be applicable) and such applicable laws of the United States,
State of Iowa and applicable Ordinances of the City which may now be in effect
or enacted in the future. All installations shall be of a permanent nature,
durable and maintained in a safe, suitable and substantial condition, in good
order and repair; and shall be aesthetically pleasing wherever possible. The
location of said existing and proposed installations shall be subject to the
approval of the City. The City shall have authority to inspect and supervise
all installation and construction.
113.11   EQUIPMENT OF OTHER FRANCHISE HOLDERS.
The City hereby grants the right, privilege, and authority to Grantee to lease,
rent or in any other legal manner obtain the use of poles with overhead lines,
conduits, trenches, ducts, lines, cables and other equipment and facilities
from any and all holders of public licenses and franchises within the corporate
limits of the City and to use such poles, conduits, trenches, ducts, lines and
cables in the course of its business.
113.12   PLAT OF INSTALLATIONS.
Grantee shall file with the City Clerk a copy, true and accurate, of maps and/
or plats of all existing and proposed installations on, over or under the
streets, trails, alleys, sidewalks, parking area or other property owned by the
City or over which the City has an easement. These maps and plats shall conform
to the requirements of the City and shall be kept continuously up to date.
113.13   SCHEDULE OF RATES.
Grantee shall at all times maintain on file with the City Clerk a schedule
setting forth all rates and charges to be made to subscribers, including those
for additional channels and services other than basic tier service.
113.14   CONFORMANCE WITH CODES.
Grantee shall be required to conform to all present and future applicable City
building codes, including (but not limited to) plumbing and electrical codes
and any ordinances providing for the manner and method of cutting streets,
excavations in the right-of-way, backfills, etc. Grantee shall restore all
property of the City, and all other property located in the City, to its
original condition after the installation of either overhead or underground
cable or any other equipment of or by Grantee.
113.15   LOCATION OF LINES.
All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment erected by
Grantee within the City shall be so located as to cause minimum interference
with the proper use of streets, alleys, and other public ways and places, and
to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable convenience of the
City and of property owners who adjoin any of the said streets, alleys, or
other public ways and places, and with other franchise holders and to be
aesthetically pleasing wherever possible.
113.16   SURFACE REPAIR.
In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk, driveway, grass or other
surfacing, Grantee shall, at its own cost and expense, and in a manner approved
by the City, replace and restore all paving, sidewalk, driveway or other
surfacing disturbed to at least as good a condition as before said work was
commenced.
113.17   OTHER FRANCHISE HOLDERS.
Grantee shall cooperate with the other City franchise holders.
113.18   STREET CHANGES.
If at any time during the period of the franchise, the City shall elect to
alter in any way, including change of grade of any street, alley, trail or
public way, or any other property owned by the City or over which the City has
an easement, Grantee, upon reasonable notice by the City, shall remove, relay
and relocate its poles, wires, cable, underground conduits, manholes and other
fixtures at Grantee’s own expense.
113.19   MOVING BUILDINGS IN CITY.
Grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building moving permit
issued by the City, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit moving of
buildings. The reasonable expense of such temporary removal of raising or
lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same; and the
Grantee shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. The
Grantee shall be given not less than 48 hours’ advance notice to arrange for
such temporary wire changes.
113.20   TRIMMING TREES.
Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees hanging over the streets,
alleys, sidewalks and public ways and places of the City so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires and cables of
Grantee.
113.21   UNDERGROUND CABLE.
In all sections of the City where the cables, wires, or other like facilities
of other public utilities are placed underground, Grantee shall place its
wires, cables or other like facilities underground to the maximum extent that
technology existing at the time reasonably permits Grantee to do so.
113.22   REPAIRS.
Grantee shall furnish and maintain a toll-free telephone number available to
subscribers 24 hours a day (with recorder or similar device for telephone calls
outside normal business hours) for complaints and requests for repairs. Grantee
shall maintain a repair and “trouble shooting” force capable of locating,
correcting and repairing all problems, malfunctions and inadequate reception of
the cable television system and cable television service in accordance with
applicable regulations of the FCC and Iowa Utilities Board. Grantee shall
maintain a subscribers’ complaint procedure capable of resolving subscribers’
complaints.
113.23   SERVICE TO SCHOOLS.
Grantee shall provide service to each public and parochial school location
within the City upon request. Grantee shall be entitled to charge an amount
equal to its actual cost for labor and materials for each such installation.
Thereafter, Grantee shall provide basic tier service to each school at which it
has made such installation without charge. If any school requests installation
of additional outlets, Grantee may charge for the installation thereof an
amount equal to its actual cost for labor and materials for each such
additional installation but shall not make any further charge for providing
basic-tier service thereto.
113.24   SERVICE TO CITY.
Grantee shall also provide to the City four separate connections to be selected
by the Council with regular service to all sets connected within the building
to the terminal junction without charge.
113.25   PUBLIC ACCESS CHANNEL.
Grantee shall carry the programming of one public access channel as part of the
basic tier service package, at no additional charge to its customers, provided,
however, that Grantee shall not be required to pay any portion of the cost of
equipping and maintaining such public access channel, of connecting such public
access channel to Grantee’s Cable Television System or of generating the
programming therefor. Grantee shall cooperate with the City to develop and
implement a plan for the provision of live broadcast capability on this channel
from the Holstein City Hall.
113.26   SYSTEM UPGRADE.
The parties understand and agree that Grantee shall construct a cable system
which delivers cable television signals processed at 550 MHZ (77 channels)
utilizing a fiber to the headend design. The system shall be constructed in
accordance with the performance standards which meet or exceed FCC regulations.
The system shall include or provide:
1.   Emergency Alert. The installation and operation of any emergency alert
override system as required by FCC regulations.
2.   Conversion. Subscribers shall not be charged by Grantee for conversion
from the existing system to the new system. In the event that special
additional or customized equipment is requested by any subscriber or is
required to provide service to any subscriber, Grantee may charge the
subscriber for such equipment. Grantee will notify subscribers and the public
in general of the cut-over, using a combination of the following: bill
stuffers, direct mail, news releases, radio announcements, CSR training, and
community bulletin board announcements.
3.   Grantee shall provide a minimum of 22 activated channels on the basic tier
of service during the remaining term of the franchise.
113.27   COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATORY ORDINANCE.
The Grantee shall comply with all of the conditions and provisions of the Cable
Franchise Regulatory Ordinance passed and adopted on November 4, 1996, and
codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code of Ordinances, unless an exemption or modification is
so specified herein.
1.   The Grantee shall be exempted from compliance with the following sections
of the Cable Franchise Regulatory Ordinance:
   A.   114.05 - Application for Franchise
   B.   114.06 (5) and (6) - Acceptance and Incorporation of Proposals and
Forfeiture of Proposal Bond
   C.   114.49 - Security Fund
   D.   114.50 - Faithful Performance Bond
2.   The exemption to the sections listed herein shall apply only to Comserv,
Ltd. and shall not transfer or apply to any person who may purchase, acquire or
lease said cable system now operated by Grantee.
3.   The City may require by resolution of the Council that the Grantee pay a
franchise fee in accordance with Section
114.31 of
Chapter 114.
4.   If there is a conflict between provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of
Chapter 114, then the provisions of this chapter shall take precedence and
shall apply to Comserv, Ltd.
5.   If there is a conflict between the provisions of this chapter or the
provisions of
Chapter 114 and the applicable regulations of the FCC, then the provisions of
the FCC regulations shall take precedence and shall apply to Comserv, Ltd.
113.28   QUALIFICATION.
Grantee’s legal, character, financial, technical and other qualifications and
the adequacy and feasibility of its construction arrangements have been
approved by the Council after consideration in a full public proceeding
affording due process to all interested persons.
113.29   DURATION OF FRANCHISE.
The duration of the franchise shall be 15 years. Such term shall begin as of
the effective date of the franchise.† 8
 
Notes
8 † EDITOR’S NOTE: Ordinance No. 157, adopting a cable television franchise for the
  City, was passed and adopted on November 4, 1996.
113.30   COMPLAINTS.
Complaints regarding the quality of service, equipment malfunctions and similar
matters shall first be directed to Grantee’s business office. Should Grantee
fail to satisfy a complaint, it may then be directed to the Clerk for
investigation. Complainants and Grantee shall be afforded a reasonable
opportunity to present written statements of their position. The clerk shall
attempt to resolve the complaint; and fi this cannot be achieved, the Clerk
shall submit a recommendation to the Council which shall either: (i) dismiss
the complaint; or (ii) specify corrective steps to be taken by Grantee. Appeal
from the Council’s action may be made to the appropriate judicial or
administrative forum.
CHAPTER 114
CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS.
114.01 Definitions                        114.28 Subscriber Privacy
114.02 Franchise Required                 114.29 Discriminatory or Preferential
                                          Practices
114.03 Grant of Franchise                 114.30 System Design and Equipment
                                          Requirements
114.04 Rights Reserved to the City        114.31 Franchise Fee
114.05 Application for Franchise          114.32 Rates and Charges
114.06 Acceptance and Effective Date of   114.33 Franchise Renewal
Franchise
114.07 Geographical Coverage              114.34 Conditions of Sale
114.08 Condition of Street Occupancy      114.35 Transfer of Franchise
114.09 Restoration of Public Ways         114.36 Right of Inspection of
                                          Construction
114.10 Relocation at Request of the City  114.37 Testing For Compliance
114.11 Safety Requirements                114.38 Books and Records
114.12 Installation Requirements          114.39 Communications with Regulatory
                                          Agencies
114.13 Extension of Service               114.40 Complaint Records
114.14 Service to Public Building         114.41 City Role in Complaints
114.15 Customer Service Standards – FCC 114.42 Performance Testing
Model
114.16 Local Office                       114.43 Review Sessions
114.17 Subscriber’s Antennas            114.44 Regulatory Responsibility
114.18 Disconnection                      114.45 Annual Report
114.19 Reconnections                      114.46 Insurance and Indemnification
114.20 Downgrades                         114.47 Enforcement of Franchise
114.21 Termination of Service             114.48 Termination of Franchise
114.22 Notification of Service            114.49 Security Fund
Interruptions
114.23 Credit for Service Interruptions   114.50 Faithful Performance Bond
114.24 Service Repair Standards           114.51 Violations and Penalties
114.25 Refunds to Subscribers             114.52 Option to Purchase System
114.26 Channel Guide                      114.53 Actions of Parties
114.27 Customer Handbook                  114.54 Notices
 
114.01   DEFINITIONS.
The following words and phrases, when used herein, shall, for the purposes of
this chapter, have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
1.   “Basic cable” is the lowest priced tier of service that includes the
retransmission of local broadcast television signals.
2.   “Cable Act” means collectively the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984
and the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, as
amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
3.   “Cable operator” has the meaning used in the Cable Act.
4.   “Cable service” has the meaning used in the Cable Act.
5.   “Cable system” has the meaning used in the Cable Act.
6.   “FCC” means Federal Communications Commission or successor governmental
entity thereto.
7.   “Franchise” means the initial authorization or renewal thereof issued by
the City, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit,
license, resolution, contract, certificate, or otherwise, which authorizes
construction and operation of the cable system.
8.   “Grantee” means any person, firm, corporation or other entity granted a
franchise hereunder, or the lawful successor, transferee or assignee thereof.
9.   “Gross revenues” means any revenue received by the Grantee from the
operation of the cable system to provide cable services in the service area,
provided, however, that such phrase does not include any fees or taxes which
are imposed directly or indirectly on any subscriber thereof by any
governmental unit or agency, and which are collected by the Grantee on behalf
of such governmental unit or agency.
10.   “Headend” means the land, electronic processing equipment, antennas,
tower, building and other appurtenances normally associated with and located at
the starting point of a broadband telecommunications network.
11.   “House drop” means a cable that connects each building or home to the
nearest feeder line of the cable network.
12.   “Normal business hours” means those hours during which most similar
businesses in the community are open to serve subscribers. In all cases,
“normal business hours” includes some evening hours at least one night per week
and/or some weekend hours.
13.   “Normal operating conditions” means those service conditions which are
within the control of the Grantee. Those conditions which are not within the
control of the Grantee include, but are not limited to natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages and severe or unusual
weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the control of
the Grantee include, but are not limited to special promotions, pay-per-view
events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and
maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
14.   “Outlet” means the point of connection of the cable or wire to a
television.
15.   “Person” means an individual, partnership, association, joint stock
company, trust corporation or governmental entity.
16.   “Private property” means all property, real, personal or mixed, owned by
a private person, including property owned by a public utility not owned or
operated by the City.
17.   “Property of the Grantee” means all property, real, personal or mixed,
owned or used by the Grantee, however arising from or related to or connected
with the franchise.
18.   “Public access channel” means: (i) channel capacity designated for public
use; and (ii) facilities and equipment for the use of such channel capacity.
The Grantee expressly reserves the right to treat (ii) as an external cost
subject to and consistent with FCC rules and regulations.
19.   “Public property” means all property, real, personal or mixed, owned or
used by the City, including property owned or used by a public utility owned or
operated by the City.
20.   “Public way” means the surface of, and the space above and below any
public street, highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard,
sidewalk, parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle or other public right-
of-way, including, but not limited to, public utility easements, dedicated
utility strips or rights-of-way dedicated for compatible uses and any temporary
or permanent fixtures or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by
the City in the service area which shall entitle the City and the Grantee to
the use thereof for the purpose of installing, operating, repairing and
maintaining the cable system. “Public way” also means any easement now or
hereafter held by the City within the service area for the purpose of public
travel, or for utility or public service use dedicated for compatible uses, and
includes other easements or rights-of-way as shall within their proper use and
meaning entitle the City and the Grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of
installing and operating the Grantee’s cable system over poles, wires, cables,
conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances,
attachments, and other property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to
the cable system.
21.   “Service area” means the present municipal boundaries of the City.
22.   “Service interruption” means the loss of video or audio on one or more
channels.
23.   “Service tier” means a category of cable service or other services
provided by a cable operator and for which a separate rate is charged by the
cable operator.
24.   “Subscriber” means a person who lawfully receives services of the cable
system with the Grantee’s express permission.
114.02   FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
Subject to federal and State law, no person, firm, company, corporation or
association shall construct, install, maintain or operate within any public
street in the City, or within any other public property of the City, any
equipment or facilities for the distribution of television signals over a Cable
System to any subscriber, unless a franchise authorizing the use of the streets
or properties or areas has first been obtained pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
114.03   GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
1.   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to specify requirements for the
establishment, construction, operation, and maintenance of a cable system in
the City pursuant to Chapter 364, Code of Iowa, and applicable federal law. If
a new applicant submits a proposal acceptable to the City, meets the
requirements of this chapter and those of the FCC, and receives a majority of
the votes cast in a franchise election, the City may then proceed to enter into
a nonexclusive franchise agreement with such prospective Grantee, subject to
the provisions of this chapter. If the incumbent operator submits a proposal
acceptable under the terms of the Cable Act and meets the requirements of the
FCC, the City shall proceed to fulfill its obligations under Section 626 of the
Cable Act.
2.   Length of Franchise. The term of a franchise and all rights, privileges,
obligations, and restrictions pertaining thereto shall be determined by the
City from the effective date of such franchise or the effective date of any
transfer or assignment thereof in accordance with Section
114.35 of this chapter. The term of agreement will be specified in the
Franchise Agreement. Such term shall not exceed 15 years. The City shall award
a nonexclusive franchise to construct, erect, operate, and maintain in, upon,
along, across, above, over and under the streets, alleys, public ways, and
public places now laid out or dedicated, and all extensions thereof and
additions thereto in the City, poles, wires, cables, underground conduits,
manholes, and other conductors and fixtures necessary for the operation and
maintenance in the City of a Cable System, and to furnish and to sell service
from such Cable System to the inhabitants of the City pursuant to the terms of
this chapter.
3.   Franchise Nonexclusive. Any franchise granted hereunder by the City shall
not be exclusive and the City reserves the right to grant a similar franchise
to any person at any time.
4.   Privileges Must Be Specified. No privilege of exemption shall be inferred
from the granting of any franchise, unless it is specifically prescribed.
5.   Authority Granted. Any franchise granted hereunder shall give to the
Grantee the right and privilege to construct, erect, operate, modify and
maintain, in, upon, along, above, over and under streets, as defined in Section
114.01 herein, which have been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public
use in the City, towers, antennas, poles, cables, electronic equipment, and
other network appurtenances necessary for the operation of a Cable System in
the City, subject to the requirements of this chapter.
6.   Subject to Other Regulatory Agencies Rules and Regulations. The Grantee
shall at all times during the life of any franchise granted hereunder be
subject to all lawful exercise of the police power by the City and other duly
authorized regulatory State and federal bodies and shall comply with any and
all ordinances which the City has adopted or shall adopt applying to the public
generally and to other grantees.
7.   Pole Use Agreements Required. Any franchise granted hereunder shall not
relieve the Grantee of any obligation involved in obtaining pole or conduit-use
agreements from the gas, electric and the telephone companies or others
maintaining poles or conduits in the streets of the City, whenever the Grantee
finds it necessary to make use of said poles or conduits.
8.   Revisions. Any franchise granted under this chapter is made subject to any
revisions of this chapter and the general ordinances of the City, provided that
such revisions do not materially alter or impair the obligations of Grantee set
forth in any Franchise Agreement and are mutually agreed to by the City and
Grantee.
114.04   RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE CITY.
1.   Right of Amendment. The City may from time to time add to, modify or
delete provisions of this chapter as it shall deem necessary in the exercise of
its regulatory powers and as may be mutually agreed to by the City and Grantee.
Such additions or revisions shall be made only after a public hearing for which
the Grantee shall have received written notice at least 30 days prior to such
hearing.
2.   No Impairment of City’s Rights. Nothing herein shall be deemed or
construed to impair or affect in any way to any extent the right of the City to
acquire the property of the Grantee through the exercise of the right of
eminent domain, pursuant to Iowa law.
3.   Grantee Agrees to City’s Rights. The City reserves every right and power
which is required to be reserved or provided by an ordinance of the City.
4.   Powers of the City. Neither the granting of any franchise nor any
provision governing the franchise shall constitute a waiver or bar to the
exercise of any governmental right or power of the City.
5.   Transfer of Functions. Any administrative right or power in or
administrative duty imposed upon any elected official of the City shall be
subject to transfer by the City to any other elected official, officer,
employee, department or board.
6.   Right of Inspection. The City reserves the right, during the life of any
franchise granted hereunder, to inspect and supervise all construction or
installation work performed.
7.   Right of Network Installation. The City reserves the right during the life
of any franchise granted hereunder to install and maintain for a reasonable
charge upon or in the poles and conduits of the Grantee and pole fixtures
necessary for municipal networks on the condition that such installation and
maintenance thereof does not interfere with the operation of the Grantee.
Provided, however, Grantee agrees that such compensation or charge shall not
exceed those paid by it to public utilities pursuant to the applicable pole
attachment agreement or other authorization relating to the service area.
114.05   APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE.
No new franchise may be granted unless the applicant has successfully completed
the application procedure in accordance with filing instructions promulgated by
the City:
1.   Filing Fee. Payment of a nonrefundable filing fee to the City of $100.00,
which sum shall be due and payable at the time of submission of the
application.
2.   Content. All applicants must complete an application which shall include,
but not be limited, to the following:
   A.   Name and Address of Applicant. The name and business address of the
applicant, date of application, and signature of applicant or appropriate
corporate officers.
   B.   Description of Proposed Operation. A general description of the
applicant’s proposed operation, including (but not limited to) business hours,
operating staff, maintenance procedures beyond those required in the chapter,
management and marketing staff policies and procedures, and, if available, the
rules of operation for public access.
   C.   Signal Carriage. A statement of the television and radio services to be
provided, including both off-the-air and locally originated signals.
   D.   Special Services. A statement setting forth a description of the
automated services proposed as well as a description of the production
facilities to be made available by the Grantee for the public, governmental and
educational channels required to be made available by the provisions of this
chapter.
   E.   Corporate Organization. A statement detailing the corporation
organization of the applicant, if any, including the names and addresses of its
officers and directors and the number of shares held by each officer and
director.
   F.   Stockholders. A statement identifying the number of authorized
outstanding shares of applicant’s stock including a current list of the names
and current addresses of its shareholders holding five percent or more of the
applicant’s outstanding stock.
   G.   Inter-Company Relationships. A statement describing all inter-company
relationships of the applicant, including parent, subsidiary or affiliated
companies.
   H.   Agreements and Understandings. A statement setting forth all agreements
and understandings, whether written or oral, existing between the applicant and
any other person with respect to any franchise awarded hereunder and the
conduct of the operation thereof existing at the time of proposal submittal.
   I.   Financial Statement. A copy of the financial statements for the two
previous fiscal years.
   J.   Financial Projection. A five-year operations pro forma which shall
include the initial and continuing plant investment, annual profit and loss
statements detailing income and expenses, annual balance sheets, and annual
levels of subscriber penetration. Costs and revenues anticipated for voluntary
services shall, if presented, be incorporated in the pro forma as required in
this chapter, but shall be separately identified in the pro forma.
   K.   Financial Support. Suitable written evidence from a recognized
financing institution, addressed to both applicant’s financial ability and
planned operation have been analyzed by the institution and that the financing
institution is prepared to make the required funds available to applicant if it
is awarded a franchise. If the planned operation is to be internally financed,
a board resolution shall be supplied authorizing the obtainment and expenditure
of such funds as are required to construct, install and operate the cable
television system contemplated hereunder.
   L.   Construction Timetable. A description of system construction including
the timetable for provision and extension of service to different parts of the
City.
   M.   Technical Description. A technical description of the type of system
proposed by the applicant, including (but not limited to) system configuration,
(i.e. hub, dual cable), system capacity, two-way capability, etc.
   N.   Existing Franchises. A statement of existing franchises held by the
applicant indicating when the franchises were issued and when the cable systems
were constructed and the present state of the cable systems in each respective
governmental unit, together with the name and address and phone number of a
responsible governmental official knowledgeable of the applicant.
   O.   Convictions. A statement as to whether the applicant or any of its
officers or directors or holders of five percent or more of its voting stock
has in the past 10 years been convicted of or has any charges pending for any
crime other than a routine traffic offense and the disposition of each such
case.
   P.   Operating Experience. A statement detailing the prior cable television
experience of the applicant, including that of the applicant’s officers,
management and staff to be associated, where known, with the proposed
franchise.
   Q.   Supplementation to Applications. The City reserves the right to require
such supplementary, additional or other information that the City deems
reasonably necessary for its determinations. Such modifications, deletions,
additions or amendments to the application shall be considered only if
specifically requested by the City.
114.06   ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE.
1.   Franchise Acceptance, Procedures. Any franchise awarded hereunder and the
rights, privileges and authority granted thereby shall take effect and be in
force from and after the award thereof, provided that the Grantee shall file
with the City the following:
   A.   A statement by the Grantee of the unconditional acceptance of the
franchise.
   B.   A certificate of insurance as set forth in Section
114.46(2).
   C.   Reimbursement to the City for the costs of publication of the franchise
ordinance and the holding of the election connected therewith, if required by
law.
2.   Grantee to Have No Recourse. The Grantee shall have no monetary recourse
whatsoever against the City for any loss, cost, expense, or damage arising out
of any provision or requirement of this chapter or its regulation. This shall
not include negligent acts of the City, its agents or employees which are
performed outside the regulatory or franchise awarding authority hereunder.
This subsection shall not apply to the purchase of the cable system by the
City.
3.   Acceptance of Power and Authority of City. The Grantee expressly
acknowledges that in accepting any franchise awarded hereunder, it has relied
upon its own investigation and understanding of the power and authority of the
City to grant the franchise.
4.   Inducements Not Offered. The Grantee, by acceptance of any franchise
awarded hereunder, acknowledges that it has not been induced to enter into this
franchise by any understanding or promise or other statement, whether verbal or
written, by or in behalf of the City concerning any term or condition of this
franchise that is not included in this chapter.
5.   Incorporation of Proposals. The Grantee, by the acceptance of any
franchise awarded hereunder, agrees that the matters contained in the Grantee’s
application for franchise and as stated in oral presentations, except as
inconsistent with the FCC rules and regulations, law or ordinance, shall be
incorporated into the franchise as though set out verbatim.
6.   Forfeiture of Proposal Bond. Should the Grantee fail to comply with
Subsection
114.05 above, it shall acquire no rights, privileges or authority under this
chapter whatever, and the amount of the proposal bond or certified check in
lieu thereof, submitted with its application, shall be forfeited in full to the
City as liquidated damages.
114.07   GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE.
The Grantee shall provide a cable system in such manner as to pass and provide
adequate tap off facilities for every single family dwelling unit, multiple
dwelling unit or other residential unit and commercial, and industrial
establishment within the service area, subject to the provisions of Section
114.13.
114.08   CONDITION OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
All transmission and distribution structures, poles, other lines, and equipment
installed or erected by the Grantee pursuant to the terms hereof shall be
located so as to cause a minimum of interference with the proper use of public
ways and with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who own
property that adjoins any of such public ways. A Grantee shall first obtain a
permit from the City prior to commencing construction on the streets, alleys,
public grounds or places and shall be on a form provided by the City. A Grantee
shall not open or disturb the surface of any street, sidewalk, driveway or
public place for any purpose without having first obtained a permit to do so in
the manner provided by ordinance. All excavation shall be coordinated with
other utility excavation or construction so as to minimize disruption to the
public.
114.09   RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
If during the course of the Grantee’s construction, operation, or maintenance
of the cable system there occurs a disturbance of any public way by the
Grantee, it shall, at its expense, replace and restore such public way to a
condition reasonably comparable to the condition of the public way existing
immediately prior to such disturbance.
114.10   RELOCATION AT REQUEST OF THE CITY.
Upon its receipt of reasonable advance notice, not to be less than 10 business
days, the Grantee shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in the public way, or remove from the public way, any
property of the Grantee when lawfully required by the City by reason of traffic
conditions, public safety, street abandonment, freeway and street construction,
change or establishment of street grade, installation of sewers, drains, gas or
water pipes, or any other type of structures or improvements by the City; but,
the Grantee shall in all cases have the right of abandonment of its property.
If public funds are available to any person using such street, easement, or
right-of-way for the purpose of defraying the cost of any of the foregoing, the
City shall make application for such funds on behalf of the Grantee.
114.11   SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
Construction, installation, and maintenance of the system shall be performed in
an orderly and workmanlike manner. All such work shall be performed in
substantial accordance with applicable FCC or other federal, State and local
regulations and the National Electric Safety Code. The cable system shall not
unreasonably endanger or interfere with the safety of persons or property in
the service area.
114.12   INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
1.   Pole Agreements. The Grantee may lease, rent, or in any other manner by
mutual agreement obtain the use of towers, poles, lines, cables, and other
equipment and facilities from utility companies operating within the City, and
use towers, poles, lines, cables, and other equipment and facilities for the
system. When and where practicable, the poles used by the Grantee’s
distribution system shall be those erected and maintained by such utility
companies operating within the City, provided mutually satisfactory rental
agreements can be reached. It is the City’s desire that all holders of public
franchises in the City cooperate with the Grantee and allow the Grantee the use
of their poles and pole line facilities whenever possible so that the number of
new or additional poles installed in the City may be minimized.
2.   Grantee’s Poles. The Grantee shall have the right to erect, install, and
maintain its own towers, poles, guys, anchors, underground conduits, and
manholes as may be necessary for the proper construction and maintenance of the
antenna site, headend, and distribution system, providing that the Grantee has
at the work site the necessary City permits or copies thereof, for scheduled
work, obtained in advance from the appropriate Department of the City.
3.   Rent of Grantee’s Poles. The Grantee shall have the right to establish
terms, conditions, and specifications governing the form, type, size, quantity,
and location of equipment of others on its poles, and shall have the further
right to charge a fair rental for attachment space or spaces occupied by the
said equipment and plant of others, except that no rent shall be paid by the
City for its attachment to the Grantee’s poles. The City shall pay any costs
incurred by the Grantee in providing space for the City’s attachments,
including any necessary rearrangements of the Grantee’s equipment and plant to
provide room for City’s attachments. Upon expiration, termination, or
revocation of a franchise, or should a Grantee wish to dispose of any of its
poles, conduit or manholes, being used by the City, the City shall have the
option to purchase them in place for their fair value.
4.   Underground Facilities. In those areas of the City where transmission or
distribution facilities of both telephone and power companies are underground
or hereafter may be placed underground, the Grantee shall likewise construct,
operate, and maintain all of its transmission and distribution facilities
underground to the maximum extent the then existing technology permits, in
accordance with the most recent National Electrical Code, and its successor
document, as well as in conformance with all applicable State and municipal
ordinances and codes. If and when necessary, amplifiers and/or transformers in
the Grantee’s transmission and distribution lines shall be in appropriate
housings on the surface of the ground. The Grantee shall obtain a permit from
the City for such housings and the location and construction of all work
required or pursuant to this section. Even when not required, underground
installation is preferable to the placing of additional poles.
5.   Compliance to Codes. All transmission and distribution structures, lines,
and equipment erected by the Grantee in the City shall be located so as not to
endanger or interfere with the normal use of streets, alleys, or other public
ways and places so as to cause minimum interference with the rights or
reasonable convenience of the general public and adjoining property owners and
so as not to interfere with existing public utility installations and so as to
comply with the most recent National Electrical Code, and its successor
document, as well as in conformance with all applicable State and municipal
ordinances and codes of general applicability. In the case of any disturbance
by the Grantee or its equipment of pavement, sidewalks, driveway, lawn, or
other surfacing the Grantee shall, at its expense and in the manner required by
the City, promptly replace and restore all such surfacing to its prior or
better condition. The construction, installation, operation, maintenance, and/
or removal of the cable communications system shall meet all of the following
safety, construction, and technical specifications and codes and standards:
   ∙   National Safety Electric Code
   ∙   National Electrical Safety Code (NESC)
   ∙   All federal, State and municipal construction requirements, including
FCC Rules and Regulations
   ∙   All building and zoning codes, and all land use restrictions as the same
exist or may be amended hereafter
6.   Interference with Other Utilities. The Grantee shall not place poles,
conduits, or other fixtures above or below ground where the same shall
interfere with any gas, electric, telephone fixtures, water hydrant, or other
utilities, and all such poles, conduits, or other fixtures above or below
ground shall be so placed as to comply with all the requirements of the City.
7.   Moving Permits. The Grantee shall, on request of any persons holding a
moving permit issued by the City, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to
permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal shall be
paid in advance by the person requesting the same, and the Grantee shall be
given not less than two working days’ advance notice to arrange for such
temporary changes.
8.   Authority to Trim Trees. The Grantee shall have the authority under the
supervision and direction of the City to trim trees or other natural growth
overhanging any of its cable system in the street or alley right-of-way so as
to prevent branches from coming in contact with the Grantee’s wires, cables or
other equipment. The Grantee shall reasonably compensate the City or property
owner for any damages caused by such trimming, or shall, in its sole
discretion, and at its own cost and expense, reasonably replace all trees or
shrubs damaged as a result of any construction of the cable system undertaken
by Grantee. Such replacement shall satisfy any and all obligations Grantee may
have to the City pursuant to the terms of this section.
9.   Service Area. The Grantee shall design and construct the cable system in
such a manner as to pass by and provide adequate tap-off facilities for every
single family dwelling, multiple family dwelling, apartment, school and
government building located within the City limits based upon the corporate
boundaries at the time of the granting of the franchise, provided that such
locations meet the density requirements pursuant to Section
114.13 - Extension of Service.
10.   Underground Construction. Grantee shall participate in and use Iowa One
Call and ensure that cable is buried pursuant to standards established by Iowa
One Call. Temporary drops will be buried within two months of installation,
weather permitting.
114.13   EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
The Grantee shall, at its expense, promptly extend its system to have service
available to all residents of:
1.   Newly annexed areas to the City not then served by a system where the
average density is at least 30 dwelling units per lineal mile of proposed trunk
and feeder cable route.
2.   New housing areas developed within the City limits providing the new areas
developed meet the requirements of subsection 1.
3.   Any new single family dwelling unit, multiple dwelling unit or other
residential unit of commercial establishment which shall be extended
simultaneously with electric power and telephone utilities, subject to the
requirements of subsection 1.
4.   The Grantee shall submit to the City, upon request, a written line policy
which shall provide that cable service will be extended to potential
subscribers who become located within 125 feet of distribution cable.
5.   No subscriber shall be refused service arbitrarily. However, for unusual
circumstances, such as the existence of more than 125 feet of distance from
distribution cable connection of service to subscribers, or a density of less
than 30 residences per lineal mile of trunk or distribution cable, service may
be made available on the basis of a capital contribution in aid of
construction, including cost of material, labor, and easements. For the purpose
of determining the amount of capital contribution in aid of construction to be
borne by the Grantee and subscribers in the areas in which service may be
expanded, the Grantee will contribute an amount equal to the construction and
other costs per mile, multiplied by a fraction whose numerator equals the
actual number of residences per lineal mile of its trunks or distribution
cable, and whose denominator equals 30 residences. Subscribers who request
service hereunder will bear the remainder of the construction and other costs
on a pro rata basis. The Grantee may require that the payment of the capital
contribution in aid of construction borne by such potential subscribers be paid
in advance.
114.14   SERVICE TO PUBLIC BUILDING.
The Grantee shall upon request, provide without charge, one outlet of basic
service and expanded basic service to those public buildings which shall
include, but are not limited to, the following locations:
   ∙   City Hall
   ∙   Holstein Community Center
   ∙   Holstein High School
   ∙   Holstein Elementary School
The outlets shall not be used to distribute or sell services in or throughout
such buildings. Users of such outlets shall hold the Grantee harmless from any
and all liability or claims arising out of their use of such outlets, including
(but not limited to), those arising from copyright liability. If additional
outlets are provided to such buildings, the building owner shall pay the usual
installation fees associated there with, including, but not limited to, labor
and materials.
114.15   CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS – FCC MODEL.
Grantee agrees to adhere to the FCC’s customer service standards contained in
Chapter 115 of this Code of Ordinances.
114.16   LOCAL OFFICE.
A business and service office, conveniently located within the City, shall be
open during normal business hours, and adequately staffed to accept subscriber
payments and respond to service requests and complaints. In lieu of a local
office, the Grantee may provide an agent of the Grantee to receive subscriber
payments or a secure weather-tight payment drop box that shall be located in
the service area on a site readily accessible to the general public.
114.17   SUBSCRIBER’S ANTENNAS.
The Grantee shall not require the removal or offer to remove or provide any
inducements for removal of any potential or existing subscriber’s antenna as a
condition of provision of service.
114.18   DISCONNECTION.
There shall be no charge for a total disconnection of cable service. If any
subscriber fails to pay a fee or charge, the Grantee may disconnect the
subscriber s service. Such disconnection shall not be effected until the
subscriber has been given 10 days’ advance written notice of the intention to
disconnect. After disconnection, upon payment of any required delinquent fee or
reconnection charge, the Grantee shall reinstate the subscriber’s service.
114.19   RECONNECTIONS.
Grantee shall restore service to customers wishing restoration of service
provided customer shall first satisfy any previous obligations owed.
114.20   DOWNGRADES.
Subscribers shall have the right to have cable service disconnected or
downgraded in accordance with FCC rules. The billing for such service will be
effective immediately and such disconnection or downgrade shall be made as soon
as practicable. A refund of unused service charges shall be paid to the
customer within 45 days from the date of termination of service.
114.21   TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
Within 30 days of termination of service to any subscriber for any reason, the
Grantee may, upon the subscriber’s written request, promptly remove all its
aerial facilities and equipment from the subscriber’s premises, pursuant to FCC
rules and regulations.
114.22   NOTIFICATION OF SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS.
The Grantee shall promptly notify the City, in writing, or if appropriate, by
oral communication, of any significant interruption in the operation of the
system. For the purposes of this section, a “significant interruption in the
operation of the system” means any interruption of audio or video on one or
more channels for a duration of at least one hour to at least five percent of
the subscribers, or an interruption of audio or video on at least one or more
channels initiated by the Grantee of at least four hours to any single
subscriber.
114.23   CREDIT FOR SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS.
Upon service interruption of subscriber’s cable service, the following shall
apply:
1.   For service interruptions of over four hours and up to 14 days, the
Grantee shall provide, at the subscriber request, a credit of one-thirtieth of
one month’s fees for affected services for each 24-hour period service is
interrupted for four or more hours for all affected subscribers.
2.   For interruptions of 15 days or more in one month, the Grantee shall
provide, at the subscriber’s request, a full month’s credit for affected
services for all affected subscribers, except in situations beyond the control
of the Grantee.
114.24   SERVICE REPAIR STANDARDS.
The Grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
Scheduled service interruptions, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by
notice and shall occur during periods of minimum use of the cable system.
114.25   REFUNDS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
1.   If the Grantee fails to provide any material service requested by a
subscriber in accordance with the current FCC standards, the Grantee shall,
after adequate notification and being afforded the opportunity to provide the
service, promptly refund all deposits or advance charges paid for the service
in question by the subscriber.
2.   If any subscriber terminates for any other reason, the Grantee shall
refund the unused portion of any prepaid subscriber service fee on a daily pro
rata basis.
3.   Any disputes arising under this section shall be finally resolved in
accordance with Section
114.41 of this chapter.
114.26   CHANNEL GUIDE.
The Grantee shall prepare and make available, at no charge to the subscribers,
an accurate and up-to-date channel guide listing the cable channels and
services available over the cable system. The channel guide shall be
distributed to every new subscriber, and within 30 days after a change or
addition in channels or services offered affecting three or more channels.
114.27   CUSTOMER HANDBOOK.
Grantee shall provide written customer policies or a handbook to all new
subscribers and, thereafter, upon request. Grantee’s written customer policies
or handbook shall, at a minimum, comply with all notice requirements
promulgated by the FCC.
If Grantee’s operating rules are changed, subscribers shall be notified in a
timely manner.
114.28   SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY.
The Grantee shall be constantly alert to possible abuses of the right of
privacy or other legal rights of any subscriber, programmer, or general citizen
resulting from any device or signal associated with the cable system. The
possibility of such abuse shall be discussed at every scheduled review session.
The Grantee shall abide by current federal law and FCC regulations and Section
631 of the Cable Act regarding protection of subscriber privacy.
114.29   DISCRIMINATORY OR PREFERENTIAL PRACTICES.
The Grantee shall not, in making available the services or facilities of its
cable system, or in its rules or regulations, or in any other manner, make or
grant preferences or advantages to any subscriber or potential subscriber, or
to any user or potential user, and shall not subject any person to any
prejudice or disadvantage, based on their race, color, national origin or
gender. This provision shall not prohibit promotional campaigns to stimulate
subscriptions to the cable system or other legitimate uses thereof, nor the
establishment of a graduated scale of charges and classified rate schedules to
which any subscriber coming within such classification shall be entitled. The
Grantee shall be allowed to contract with “bulk” users of cable service for a
reduced rate in accordance with FCC regulations.
114.30   SYSTEM DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
1.   All Channels Emergency Alert. The Grantee shall, in the case of any
emergency or disaster, make its entire cable system available without charge to
the City or to any other governmental or civil defense agency that the City
shall designate. The cable system shall be engineered to provide an audio alert
system to allow authorized officials to automatically override the audio signal
on all channels and transmit and report emergency information pursuant to FCC
regulations. The Grantee shall comply with such standards as the FCC shall
prescribe to ensure that viewers of video programming on cable systems are
afforded the same emergency information as is afforded by the emergency
broadcasting system pursuant to FCC regulations in Subpart G of Part 73, Title
47, Code of Federal Regulations.
2.   Switching Device. The Grantee, upon request from any subscriber, shall
install at cost a switching device to permit a subscriber to continue to
utilize the subscriber’s television antenna. The Grantee shall not require the
removal, or offer to remove, any subscriber’s antenna lead-in wire.
3.   Parental Control Devices. Upon request, and within 120 days, Grantee shall
provide at cost to subscribers, parental control devices that allow any channel
or channels to be locked out. Such devices shall block both the video and the
audio portion of such channels to the extent that both are unintelligible.
4.   Education and Government Channels. During the term of the franchise, the
Grantee shall provide at least one specially dedicated, non-commercial
education and government channel to be made available to the public, groups,
and individuals on a first-come, non-discriminatory basis. Such channels shall
be operated in accord with FCC rules and regulations. The Grantee shall make no
charge for use of such channel. The City or its designee shall exercise sole
control over the operation and shall establish rules providing for access to
the education and government channel.
5.   Non-Subscriber Interference. The Grantee’s system shall be designed,
engineered, and maintained so as not to interfere with the television and radio
reception of residents of the City who are not subscribers on the cable system.
6.   Technical Standards.
   A.   Methods of construction, installation, and maintenance of the cable
television system shall comply with the most recent National Electrical Code to
the extent that such Code is consistent with local law affecting the
construction, installation, maintenance of electric supply and communications
lines. To the extent that such Code is inconsistent with other provisions of
this chapter or with local law, the latter shall govern. The Grantee must
obtain all necessary construction or excavation permits in advance from the
City.
   B.   Installation and physical dimensions of any tower constructed for use
in the cable television system shall comply with all appropriate Federal
Aviation Agency regulations.
   C.   Any antenna structure used in the cable system shall comply with all
appropriate local, State and federal regulations.
   D.   All working facilities and conditions used during construction,
installation, and maintenance of the cable system shall comply with the
standards of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
   E.   The cable system permitted to be operated hereunder shall be maintained
and operated in conformance with FCC rules and regulations. Any FCC technical
standards or guidelines related to the cable system and facilities shall be
deemed to be regulations under this chapter.
7.   Filing of Maps. Upon request of the City, the Grantee shall file with the
City strand maps, showing the location of all property and facilities of the
Grantee within the City.
114.31   FRANCHISE FEE.
1.   Payment. In consideration for the use of the streets and public ways of
the City for the construction, operation, maintenance, and reconstruction of a
system within the City, the Grantee shall pay to the City an annual amount
equal to five percent of the Grantee’s Gross Revenues as defined in Section
114.01 of this chapter. This includes but is not limited to all subscriber’
payments, installation fees, converter boxes, local advertising, leased access
channels, pay-per-view and cable service exchanged in barter agreements. The
City reserves the right to require a franchise fee of any amount less than five
percent of gross revenues at any time during the term of the franchise granted
to the Grantee. This amount shall not include any taxes on cable service which
are imposed directly or indirectly on any subscriber thereof by any
governmental unit or agency and which are collected by the Grantee on behalf of
such governmental unit or agency.
2.   Quarterly Payments. Payment due to the City under this provision shall be
made quarterly at the City Clerk’s office not later than 45 days following
March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year. Any fee not paid
when due shall bear interest at a rate of one and one-half percent per month
from the date due. Each payment shall be accompanied with a detailed report
showing the basis for the computation, specific income categories, and such
other relevant facts as may be required by the Grantor necessary to determine
the accuracy of the franchise payment as specified in Section
114.45 of this chapter. The acceptance of any payment shall not be construed as
an accord that the amount paid is, in fact, the correct amount, nor shall such
acceptance of payment be construed as a release of any claim the City may have
for additional sums payable by the Grantee. All amounts paid shall be subject
to audit and recomputation by the City.
3.   Limitation on Franchise Fee Actions. The period of limitation for recovery
of any franchise fee payable hereunder shall be ten years from the date on
which payment by the Grantee is due.
4.   Franchise Fee Audit. The Grantee will fully cooperate with a franchise fee
audit performed by a professional firm that is chosen by the City. The costs
associated with the audit will be paid for by the City, provided that the
Grantee shall pay for the costs if the audit shows an underpayment of franchise
fees in excess of five percent or more. In addition, the City and Grantee will
design a mutually agreeable form to be used by the Grantee that reflects a
breakout of the items used to calculate the franchise fees paid to the City.
5.   Franchise Fee Increases. The City may request an increase in franchise
fees at any time during the term of the franchise, equal to the maximum allowed
by federal law. However, such request shall be made in writing and the Grantee
will not be liable for said increase until proper notice, as defined by Federal
law, is given to its subscriber. Prior to making a final decision regarding an
increase in franchise fees, the City shall conduct a public hearing and shall
grant an opportunity to the Grantee to discuss the proposed increase in
franchise fee.
114.32   RATES AND CHARGES.
The City may regulate rates for the provision of basic cable and equipment as
permitted by the Telecommunication Act of 1996, as amended, and applicable law.
114.33   FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
The City and the Grantee agree that any proceedings undertaken by the City that
relate to the renewal of the Grantee’s franchise shall be governed by and
comply with the provisions of Section 626 of the Cable Act, as amended, unless
the procedures and substantive protections set forth therein shall be deemed to
be preempted and superseded by the provisions of any subsequent provision of
federal or State law.
114.34   CONDITIONS OF SALE.
If a renewal or extension of the Grantee’s franchise is denied or the franchise
is lawfully terminated, and the City either lawfully acquires ownership of the
cable system or by its actions lawfully effects a transfer of ownership of the
cable system to another person, any such acquisition or transfer shall be at a
price determined pursuant to the provisions set forth in Section 627 of the
Cable Act.
114.35   TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
1.   Transfer of Franchise. Any franchise granted under this chapter shall be a
privilege to be held for the benefit of the public. Any franchise so granted
cannot, in any event, be sold, transferred, leased, assigned or disposed of,
including, but not limited to, by forced or voluntary sale, except to an entity
controlling, controlled by or under common control with the Grantee, without
the prior written consent of the City. Such consent, as required by the City,
shall be given or denied no later than 120 days following any request and shall
not be unreasonable withheld. Prior consent shall not be required when
transferring the franchise between wholly owned subsidiaries of the same
entity, nor shall such consent be required for a transfer in trust, by
mortgage, by other hypothecation, or assignment of any rights, title, or
interest of the Grantee in the cable system in order to secure indebtedness.
2.   Ownership or Control. In the event that the Grantee sells or otherwise
transfers ownership in the cable system, such sale or transfer shall conform
with Section 617 of the Cable Act. For the purpose of determining whether it
shall consent to such change, transfer of acquisition of control, the City may
inquire into the qualifications of the prospective controlling party, and the
Grantee shall assist the City in any such inquiry. In no event shall a transfer
of ownership or control be approved without the successor in interest becoming
a signatory of the Franchise Agreement. The City may approve the transfer or
deny the transfer pursuant to Section 617 of the Cable Act. When the City
approves a transfer under this section, the new Grantee shall indicate
acceptance of the franchise as specified in Section
114.06, including the filing of all necessary bonds, funds, proofs of insurance
and certifications.
The restrictions of this section shall be effective immediately upon execution
of a franchise agreement.
114.36   RIGHT OF INSPECTION OF CONSTRUCTION.
The City shall have the right to inspect all construction or installation work
performed subject to the provisions of this chapter and to make such
inspections as it shall find necessary to ensure compliance with the terms of
this chapter.
114.37   TESTING FOR COMPLIANCE.
The City shall have the right to compel the Grantee to test, analyze, and
report on the performance of the cable system in accordance with FCC regulation
47 C.F.R. S76.601. The City may also perform technical tests of the cable
system during reasonable times and in a manner which does not unreasonable
interfere with the normal business operations of the Grantee or the cable
system in order to determine whether or not the Grantee is in compliance with
the terms hereof and applicable State or federal laws. Except in emergency
circumstances, such tests may be undertaken only after giving the Grantee
reasonable notice thereof, not to be less than two business days, and providing
a representative of the Grantee has an opportunity to be present during such
tests. In the event that such testing demonstrates that the Grantee has
substantially failed to comply with a material requirement hereof, the
reasonable costs of such tests shall be borne by the Grantee. In the event that
such testing demonstrates that the Grantee has substantially complied with such
material provisions hereof, the cost of such testing shall be borne by the
City. Except in emergency circumstances, the City agrees that such testing
shall be undertaken no more than once a year, and that the results thereof
shall be made available to the Grantee. Any special performance tests or
measurements required by the City shall be reported to the City within 14
business days after such test or measurements are performed. Such report shall
include the following information: the nature of the complaint which
precipitated the special tests; what system component was tested, the equipment
used, and procedures employed in said testing; the results of such tests; and
the method in which such complaints were resolved. Any other information
pertinent to the special test shall be recorded.
114.38   BOOKS AND RECORDS.
The City or its certified public accountant upon reasonable notice to the
Grantee may review books and records at the Grantee’s business office, during
normal business hours and on a non-disruptive basis, as is reasonably necessary
to ensure compliance with the terms hereof. Such records shall include, but
shall not be limited to, any public records required to be kept by the Grantee
pursuant to the rules and regulations of the FCC. Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary set forth herein, the Grantee shall not be required to disclose
information which it reasonably deems to be proprietary or confidential in
nature under State and federal rules of evidence. The City agrees to treat any
information disclosed by the Grantee as confidential and only to disclose it to
employees, representatives, and agent thereof that have a need to know, or in
order to enforce the provisions hereof. The Grantee shall not be required to
provide subscriber information in violation of Section 631 of the Cable Act.
114.39   COMMUNICATIONS WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES.
Copies of all petitions, applications, communications, reports, and all other
documents pertaining to the cable system and franchise submitted by the Grantee
or its parent companies to the FCC, Securities Exchange Commission, or any
other federal or State regulatory commission or agency shall be made available
to the City, upon written request to the Grantee.
114.40   COMPLAINT RECORDS.
A written log or an equivalent stored in computer memory and capable of access
and reproduction, shall be maintained for all service interruptions and
requests for cable service as required by this chapter. The Grantee shall
maintain detailed logs setting forth the date and substance of each complaint
received by phone, mail or other means during the preceding calendar month, and
the date and nature of action taken by the Grantee to respond to such
complaints, or, if still pending, the status thereof. Such logs shall be
available to the City for review for two years thereafter.
114.41   CITY ROLE IN COMPLAINTS.
Unresolved complaints concerning the system or its operation or maintenance
shall be directed to the City Clerk. The Clerk shall forward the complaint to
the Grantee or shall take the question up by correspondence with the Grantee.
The procedure to handle complaints and grievances with respect to subscriber
complaints and the quality of services rendered by Grantee equipment
malfunctions and other matters shall be as follows:
1.   Within 30 days from the occurrence of the facts and circumstances giving
rise to a complaint or grievance, the complainant shall state his complaint or
grievance to the Grantee in writing. In the event such a complaint or grievance
is received by the City, the same shall be forward to Grantee in writing.
2.   Within five days from the receipt of a complaint or grievance by Grantee,
Grantee shall state to complainant its intentions with respect to the complaint
or grievance in writing.
3.   In the event complaint or grievance is not resolved to the satisfaction of
complainant within 15 days from the receipt thereof by Grantee, the complaint
or grievance shall be settled by arbitration before three disinterested
arbitrators, one named by complainant, one named by Grantee and one named by
those two. The decision of the arbitrator shall be conclusive and shall be
enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Iowa. The costs of the
arbitration proceedings will be borne equally by the City and the Grantee.
4.   All subscribers shall be notified by the Grantee at the time of their
initial installation of these complaint procedures in writing.
5.   Nothing herein shall limit or alter the requirement or requirements
contained in this chapter for customer service standards as contained in
Chapter 115.
6.   The City shall be notified of action taken to resolve grievances or
complaints and any determination by an arbitrator as provided herein.
114.42   PERFORMANCE TESTING.
Grantee shall perform all cable system tests and maintenance procedures as
required by the FCC and this chapter.
114.43   REVIEW SESSIONS.
In recognition of the fact that a great many technical, financial, marketing
and legal uncertainties are associated with all aspects of cable communications
at the present time, it is the intent of the City to provide for a maximum
feasible degree of flexibility in the franchise throughout its term to achieve
an advanced and modern cable system for the City. The principal means for
accomplishing this flexibility will be the scheduled review sessions provided
for in this chapter. It is intended that such review sessions will serve as a
means of cooperatively working out solutions to problems that develop.
Furthermore, such review sessions shall be two-way processes. For example, if
either party has perceived that some major problem has developed, the session
shall be devoted primarily to working out solutions acceptable to both parties.
The City and the Grantee shall hold scheduled review sessions no later than
April 30 of calendar year 2000, and every third year thereafter for the
duration of the franchise. All such review sessions shall be open to the public
and notice thereof shall be published once, not less than four days or more
than 20 days before each review session, as provided by law. The published
notice shall specify the topics to be discussed. The review sessions may be
canceled by mutual agreement of the City and Grantee. The following topics may
be discussed at every scheduled review sessions:
   ∙   Recent and Developing Judicial and Federal Communications Rulings
   ∙   Service Rate Structures
   ∙   Free and Discounted Services
   ∙   Application of New Technology or New Developments
   ∙   Cable System Performance
   ∙   Cable System Extension Policy
   ∙   Services Provided
   ∙   Programming Offered
   ∙   Customer Complaints Review
   ∙   Community Development and Education
   ∙   Interconnection
   ∙   New Services
   ∙   Franchise Fees
Other topics, in addition to those listed, may be added by either party.
Members of the general public may also request additional topics.
114.44   REGULATORY RESPONSIBILITY.
The City, acting alone or acting jointly with other franchising authorities,
may exercise or delegate the following regulatory responsibility:
1.   Administering the provision of the cable system franchises;
2.   Coordinating the operation of community access channel and facilities;
3.   Providing technical, programming and operational support to public agency
users, such as government departments, schools and health care institutions;
4.   Establishing jointly with the Grantee, or as otherwise specified in the
Franchise Agreement, procedures and standards for use of channels dedicated to
public use and the sharing of public facilities, if provided for in any
Franchise Agreement;
5.   Planning the expansion and growth of public benefit cable services;
6.   Analyzing the possibility of integrating cable systems with other local,
regional or national telecommunications networks;
7.   Formulating and recommending long-range telecommunications policy.
114.45   ANNUAL REPORT.
No later than 90 days after the close of the Grantee’s fiscal year, the Grantee
shall submit a detailed written informative report to the City, including the
following information pertaining only to the Holstein franchise:
1.   A summary of the previous year’s activities in development of the cable
system, including, but not limited to, services begun or dropped and
subscribers gained or lost.
2.   A detailed revenue statement including a breakdown of all revenue sources
upon which the City can verify franchise fee accuracy. The list of revenues
shall include but not be limited to, a specific breakdown of the following
items: basic tier service charges, expanded basic service charges, installation
charges, reconnection fees, advertising revenues, premium channel revenues,
shopping service revenue, revenue from other sources such as contracted or
subleased video, audio and data transmission services, pay per view, and
miscellaneous revenue.
3.   A summary of complaints, identifying the number and specific nature of
complaints and their disposition.
4.   A list of key management people for the Holstein franchise along with
their addresses and job titles.
5.   The annual report of the parent company, if a public corporation.
6.   A summary of types of communication signals and services provided without
charge or provided under a barter arrangement along with their dollar
equivalent.
7.   A written confirmation that insurance coverages are maintained as required
in Section
114.46(2).
8.   The Grantee shall only be required to provide the information listed in
this section upon written request by the City.
114.46   INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION.
1.   Indemnification. The Grantee shall defend, indemnify, protect, and hold
harmless the City from and against any and all liability, losses, and damage to
property or bodily injury or death to any person, including payments made under
worker’s compensation laws, which may arise out of or be caused by the
erection, construction, replacement, removal, maintenance, or operation of
Grantee’s cable system and caused by any act or failure to act on the part of
the Grantee, its agents, officers, servants, or employees. The City shall give
the Grantee written notice of its obligation to indemnify.
2.   Insurance Coverage and Notifications. The Grantee shall maintain insurance
in such amounts and kinds of coverages as may be specified by the City. Such
coverages may be adjusted by the City with 90-day notification, provided that
the City demonstrates the need for increases in coverages. The Grantee shall
maintain such insurance with insurance underwriters authorized to do business
in the State of Iowa. All policies shall name the City, its employees,
servants, agents, and officers as additional insured parties. Each policy shall
provide that it may not be canceled or the amount of coverage altered until 30
days after receipt by the City Clerk of a registered mail notice of such intent
to cancel or alter coverage. The Grantee shall maintain and provide to the City
Clerk proof of Public Liability Insurance for not less than the following
amounts:
   ∙   $1,000,000 – Any one occurrence, bodily injury or property damage
   ∙   $1,000,000 – Products / Completed Operations Annual Aggregate Liability
   ∙   $1,000,000 – General Aggregate
3.   Insurance for Contractors and Subcontractors. Grantee shall provide
coverage for any contractor or subcontractor involved in the construction,
installation, maintenance or operation of its cable system by either obtaining
the necessary endorsements to its insurance policies or requiring such
contractor or subcontractor to obtain appropriate insurance coverage consistent
with this section and appropriate to the extent of its involvement in the
construction, installation, maintenance or operation of Grantee’s cable system.
4.   Foreclosure. A foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or part of the
system shall be treated as a change in control of the Grantee and the provision
of Section
114.48 of this chapter shall apply.
5.   Receivership. The City shall have the right to cancel the franchise 120
days after the appointment of a receiver or trustee to take over and conduct
the business of the Grantee, whether in receivership, reorganization,
bankruptcy, or other action or proceedings, unless such receivership or
trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the expiration of said 120 days,
or less:
   A.   Within 120 days after being elected or appointed, such receiver or
trustee shall have fully complied with all provisions of this chapter and
remedied all defaults thereunder; and
   B.   Shall have executed an agreement, approved by the court having
jurisdiction, whereby such receiver or trustee agrees to be bound by this
chapter and the franchise granted to the Grantee.
6.   Continuity of Service.
   A.   Right to Continuous Service. It shall be the right of all subscribers
to continue receiving service insofar as their financial and other obligations
to the Grantee are honored. In the event that the Grantee elects to overbuild,
rebuild, modify, or sell the cable system, or the City gives notice of intent
to terminate or fails to renew the franchise, the Grantee shall act so as to
ensure that all subscribers receive continuous, uninterrupted service for 6
months. In the event of a change of Grantee, or in the event a new operator
acquires the cable system, the original Grantee shall cooperate with the City,
new Grantee or operator in maintaining continuity of service to all
subscribers. However, this requirement shall not pertain to an instances when
the City is purchasing the cable system. During such period, Grantee shall be
entitled to the revenue for any period during which it operates the cable
system, and shall be entitled to reasonable costs for its services when it no
longer operates the cable system.
   B.   Right of City to Operate Cable System. In the event Grantee fails to
operate the system for seven consecutive days without prior approval of the
City or without just cause, the City may, working in conjunction with any
financial institution having a pledge of the franchise or its assets for the
advancement of money for the construction and/or operation of the franchise,
operate the system or designate an operator until such time as Grantee restores
service under conditions acceptable to the City or a permanent operator is
selected. If the City is required to fulfill this obligation for the Grantee,
then during such period as the City fulfills such obligation, the City shall be
entitled to collect all revenues from the cable system, and the Grantee shall
reimburse the City for all reasonable costs or damages in excess of the
revenues collected by the City that are the result of the Grantee’s failure to
perform.
7.   Franchise Processing Costs.
   A.   New Franchises. For a new franchise awarded, the costs to be borne by
the Grantee shall include, but shall not be limited to, all costs of
publication of notices prior to any public meeting, publication of relevant
ordinances and franchise agreements, incurred by the City.
   B.   Franchise Renewal. For a franchise renewal, the Grantee shall reimburse
the City cost of publication of notices, publication of relevant ordinances and
franchise agreements.
   C.   Franchise Transfer. For a franchise transfer, the transferee shall
reimburse the City the cost of publication of notices, publication of relevant
ordinances and franchise agreements. The City reserves the right to withhold
approval of such transfer until all costs have been reimbursed by the
transferee.
   D.   Other Costs. The processing costs provided for in this section shall be
in addition to any other inspection or permit fee or other fees due to City
under any other ordinance of general applicability.
8.   Taxes. Subject to federal and State law, the Grantee shall pay all real
estate taxes, special assessments, personal property taxes, license fees,
permit fees and other charges of a like nature which may be taxed, charged,
assessed, levied, or imposed upon the property of the Grantee and upon any
services rendered by the Grantee.
114.47   ENFORCEMENT OF FRANCHISE.
1.   Notice of Violation. In the event that the City believes that the Grantee
has not complied with the terms of the Franchise, it shall notify the Grantee
in writing of the exact nature of the alleged noncompliance.
2.   Grantee’s Right To Cure or Respond. The Grantee shall have 30 days from
receipt of the notice described in Subsection 1: (i) to respond to the City,
contesting the assertion of noncompliance; or (ii) to cure such default; or
(iii) in the event that, by the nature of default, such default cannot be cured
within the 30-day period, initiate reasonable steps to remedy such default and
notify the City of the steps being taken and the projected date that they will
be completed.
3.   Public Hearing. In the event that the Grantee fails to respond to the
notice described in Subsection 1 pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Subsection 2, or in the event that the alleged default is not remedied within
30 days or the date projected, the City shall schedule a public hearing to
investigate the default. The City shall notify the Grantee in writing of the
time and place of such meeting no less than five business days in advance and
provide the Grantee with an opportunity to be heard.
4.   Enforcement. In the event the City, after such public hearing, determines
that the Grantee is in default of any provision of the franchise, the City,
subject to applicable federal law, may:
   A.   Seek specific performance of any provision, which reasonably lends
itself to such remedy, as an alternative to damages;
   B.   Commence an action at law for monetary damages or seek other equitable
relief, or
   C.   In the case of a substantial default of a material provision of the
franchise, declare the Franchise Agreement to be revoked in accordance with the
procedures outlined in this section.
The Franchising Authority shall give written notice to the Grantee of its
intent to revoke the franchise on the basis of noncompliance by the Grantee,
including one or more instances of substantial noncompliance with a material
provision of the franchise. The notice shall set forth the exact nature of the
noncompliance. The Grantee shall have 30 days from such notice to object in
writing and to state its reasons for such objection. In the event the City has
not received a response satisfactory from the Grantee, it may then seek
termination of the franchise at a public meeting. The City shall cause to be
served upon the Grantee, at least five days prior to such public meeting, a
written notice specifying the time and place of such meeting and stating its
intent to request such termination. At the designated meeting, the City shall
give the Grantee an opportunity to state its position on the matter, after
which it shall determine whether or not the franchise shall be revoked. The
Grantee may appeal such determination to an appropriate court, which shall have
the power to review the decision of the City “de novo” and to modify or reverse
such decision as justice may require. Such appeal to the appropriate court must
be taken within 120 days of the issuance of the determination of the City. The
City may, at its sole discretion, take any lawful action which it deems
appropriate to enforce the City’s rights under the franchise in lieu of
revocation of the franchise.
5.   Closing of Streets. The Grantee shall not be entitled to damages from the
City sustained by the virtue of the closing, vacation, or relocation of any
streets or alleys.
6.   Reservation of Rights. The Grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation
to comply with this chapter by reason of the City’s failure to enforce prompt
compliance.
7.   Impossibility of Performance. The Grantee shall not be held in default or
noncompliance with the provisions of the franchise, or suffer any enforcement
or penalty relating thereto, where such noncompliance or alleged defaults are
caused by the following circumstances if reasonably beyond its control:
   ∙   Necessary utility rearrangements, pole change-outs or obtainment of
easement rights,
   ∙   Governmental or regulatory restrictions,
   ∙   Lockouts,
   ∙   War,
   ∙   National emergencies,
   ∙   Fire,
   ∙   Acts of God,
114.48   TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
1.   Grounds for Revocation. The City reserves the right to revoke any
franchise and rescind all rights and privileges associated with the franchise
in the following circumstances:
   A.   If the Grantee should default in the performance of any of its material
obligations under this chapter or the franchise and fails to cure the default
within 60 days after receipt of written notice of the default from the City, or
such longer time as specified by the City.
   B.   If a petition is filed by or against the Grantee under the Bankruptcy
Act or any other insolvency or creditors’ rights law, State or federal, and the
Grantee shall fail to have it dismissed.
   C.   If a receiver, trustee or liquidator of the Grantee is applied for or
appointed for all or part of the Grantee’s assets.
   D.   If the Grantee makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors.
   E.   If the Grantee violates any order or ruling of any State or federal
regulatory body having jurisdiction over the Grantee, unless the Grantee or any
party similarly affected is lawfully contesting the legality or applicability
of such order or ruling and has received a stay from a Court of appropriate
jurisdiction.
   F.   If the Grantee evades any of the provisions of this chapter or the
Franchise Agreement.
   G.   If the Grantee practices any fraud or deceit upon the City or cable
subscribers.
   H.   If the Grantee materially misrepresents facts in the application for a
franchise.
   I.   If the Grantee ceases to provide services over the cable system for
seven consecutive days for any reason within the control of the Grantee.
2.   Restoration of Property. In removing its plant, structures and equipment,
the Grantee shall refill at its own expense any excavation that shall be made
by it and shall leave all public ways and places in as good condition as that
prevailing prior to the Grantee’s removal of its equipment and appliances,
without affecting the electric or telephone cables, wires or attachments. The
City shall inspect and approve the condition of the public ways and public
places and cables, wires, attachments and poles after removal. Liability
insurance indemnity provided in Section
114.46(2) and the performance bond in Section
114.50 shall continue in full force and effect during the period of removal.
3.   Reimbursement of Costs. In the event of a failure by the Grantee to
complete any work as required above or any work required by law or ordinance
within the time established and to the satisfaction of the City, the City may
cause such work to be done and the Grantee shall reimburse the City the costs
thereof within 30 days after receipt of an itemized list of such costs or the
City may recover such costs as provided in Section
114.49.
114.49   SECURITY FUND.
1.   Within ten days after execution of the Franchise Agreement, the Grantee
shall deposit with the City Clerk, and maintain on deposit through the term of
the franchise, the sum of $10,000.00 as security for the faithful performance
by it of all the provisions of this franchise and compliance with all orders,
permits, and directions of any agency of the City having jurisdiction over its
acts or defaults under this contract, and the payment by the Grantee of any
claims, liens, and taxes due the City which arise by reason of the
construction, operation, or maintenance of the system.
2.   Within ten days after notice that any amount has been withdrawn from the
security fund deposited pursuant to Subsection 1 of this section, the Grantee
shall pay to, or deposit with, the City Clerk a sum of money sufficient to
restore such security fund to the original amount of $10,000.00.
3.   If the Grantee fails to pay to the City any compensation within the time
fixed herein; or fails after ten days’ notice to pay to the City any taxes due
and unpaid; or fails to repay to the City within such ten days, any damages,
costs, or expenses which the City shall be compelled to pay by reason of any
act or default of the Grantee in connection with the franchise; or fails after
three days’ notice of such failure by the Grantee to comply with any provision
of this contract which the City reasonably determines can be remedied by an
expenditure of the security, the City Clerk may immediately withdraw the amount
thereof, with interest and any penalties, from the security fund. Upon such
withdrawal, the City Clerk shall notify the company of the amount and date
thereof.
4.   The security fund deposited pursuant to this section shall become the
property of the City in the event that this contract is canceled by reason of
the default of the Grantee. The Grantee, however, shall be entitled to the
return of such security fund, or portion thereof, as remains on deposit at the
expiration of the term of the franchise, provided that there is then no
outstanding default on the part of the Grantee. Interest earned by the
investment of the security fund will accrue to the Grantee.
5.   The rights reserved to the City with respect to the security fund are in
addition to all other rights of the City, whether reserved by this franchise or
authorized by law, and no action, proceeding, or exercise of a right with
respect to such security fund shall affect any other right the City may have.
114.50   FAITHFUL PERFORMANCE BOND.
Upon acceptance of a franchise, the Grantee shall submit and maintain
throughout the term of the franchise, a faithful performance bond in the amount
of $100,000.00. The bond shall insure compliance with all applicable laws,
regulations, ordinances and provisions of the franchise, shall provide for
recoverable loss or damages, compensation, indemnification, reasonable attorney
fees, cost of removal or abandonment of Grantee’s property, and shall cover
penalties of $100.00 per day for failure to meet the construction requirements
of any franchise agreement.
114.51   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
If the Grantee fails to comply with the requirements of this chapter, and a
cable franchise agreement, then the City may invoke and secure compliance in
accordance with the Municipal Infractions chapter of this Code of Ordinances
and as authorized by Section 364.22 of the Code of Iowa.
114.52   OPTION TO PURCHASE SYSTEM.
Upon cancellation or expiration of the franchise, the City may, in a lawful
manner and upon payment in readily available funds, purchase the system for a
price equal to its fair market value. The fair market value shall be determined
by an independent organization acceptable to both parties in accordance with
generally accepted cable television appraisal and accounting principles. The
original cost of all tangible and intangible property, as well as salvage
value, the book value, and replacement cost, cash flow, and other factors may
be considered. If the City elects to purchase the system, the Grantee shall
promptly execute all documents necessary to transfer title to the City and
shall assign all of the contracts, leases, licenses, permits, and any other
rights necessary to maintain continuity of service to the public. The Grantee
shall cooperate with the City to operate the system for a temporary period, in
maintaining continuity of service. Upon the cancellation, revocation or
expiration of the franchise the City shall have the right to require the
Grantee to remove at its expense, all portions of the system from all streets,
alleys, public ways, and public places within the City. Nothing herein is
intended as a waiver of any rights the City may have.
114.53   ACTIONS OF PARTIES.
In any action by the City or the Grantee that is mandated or permitted under
the terms hereof, such party shall act in a reasonable, expeditious and timely
manner. Furthermore, in any instance where approval or consent is required
under the terms hereof, such approval or consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
114.54   NOTICES.
Unless expressly otherwise agreed between the parties, every notice or response
required by the Franchise to be served upon the City or the Grantee shall be in
writing, and shall be deemed to have been duly given to the required party five
business days after having been posted in a properly sealed and correctly
addressed envelope, when hand delivered or sent by certified or registered
mail, postage prepaid.
CHAPTER 115
CABLE TELEVISION CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
 
115.01 Enforcement of Customer Service Standards 115.03 Rules and Procedures
115.02 Notification                              115.04 Penalty
 
115.01   ENFORCEMENT OF CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
The City has the legal authority to adopt and enforce customer service
standards for the cable television system in the City as permitted by the Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992. Upon review of the
customer service standards adopted by the FCC on March 11, 1993, by MM Docket
No. 92-263 of the FCC, and deeming it in the best interests of the City, the
Council hereby adopts by reference the above mentioned customer service
standards for cable television service.
115.02   NOTIFICATION.
The Clerk shall notify the Cable Operator by registered mail with return
receipt that the City has adopted said customer service standards for cable
television service, to become effective upon written notification to cable
operator.
115.03   RULES AND PROCEDURES.
The Cable Commission appointed by the Council shall establish rules and
procedures regarding the process to remedy possible violations of the customer
service standards by the Cable Operator. The Commission shall provide for
notice and opportunity for hearing for both the customers and the Cable
Operator in such process.
115.04   PENALTY.
If after notice and opportunity for hearing, the City determines that the Cable
Operator is not in complete compliance with all the provisions of the customer
service standards, the Cable Operator shall reduce the rate for the basic tier
of cable service by 25 percent until such time that the City has been satisfied
that the Cable Operator is in compliance with all the provisions of the
customer service standards. In addition, the Cable Operator shall pay to the
City the sum of $100.00 for each day that the Cable Operator fails to be in
compliance with all the provisions of the standards after the date that the
Council has passed a resolution stipulating the sections where the Cable
Operator is in noncompliance.
CHAPTER 116
CEMETERY
 
116.01 Trustees Appointed 116.02 Powers and Duties
 
116.01   TRUSTEES APPOINTED.
The Council shall at the first regular meeting in May of each year appoint two
residents of the City to serve as Cemetery Trustees for the Township Cemetery
Board of Trustees, who shall hold office for a one-year term.
116.02   POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Township Board of Trustees shall have the general management and control of
all cemeteries within the City, and those cemeteries outside the City
established by the authority of the City. The duties of the Council in
reference to the cemetery or cemeteries are hereby transferred to the trustees.
CHAPTER 117
URBAN FORESTRY UTILITY FEE.
(Repealed by Ordinance No. 259 – Sep. 24 Supp.)
CHAPTER 120
LIQUOR LICENSES AND WINE AND BEER PERMITS.
 
120.01 License or Permit Required 120.04 Action by Council
120.02 General Prohibition        120.05 Prohibited Sales and Acts
120.03 Investigation              120.06 Amusement Devices
 
120.01   LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall manufacture for sale, import, sell, or offer or keep for sale,
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer without first securing a liquor control
license, wine permit or beer permit in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.22, 123.122, and 123.171)
120.02   GENERAL PROHIBITION.
It is unlawful to manufacture for sale, sell, offer or keep for sale, possess
or transport alcoholic liquor, wine or beer except upon the terms, conditions,
limitations and restrictions enumerated in Chapter 123 of the Code of Iowa, and
a license or permit may be suspended or revoked or a civil penalty may be
imposed for a violation thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.2, 123.39, and 123.50)
120.03   INVESTIGATION.
Upon receipt of an application for a liquor license, wine or beer permit, the
Clerk may forward it to the peace officer, who shall then conduct an
investigation and submit a written report as to the truth of the facts averred
in the application. The Fire Chief may also inspect the premises to determine
if they conform to the requirements of the City. The Council shall not approve
an application for a license or permit for any premises which does not conform
to the applicable law and ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.30)
120.04   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
The Council shall either approve or disapprove the issuance of a liquor control
license, a retail wine permit, or a retail beer permit and shall endorse its
approval or disapproval on the application, and thereafter the application,
necessary fee, and bond, if required, shall be forwarded to the Alcoholic
Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce for such further action
as is provided by law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.32[2])
120.05   PROHIBITED SALES AND ACTS.
A person or club holding a liquor license or retail wine or beer permit and the
person’s or club’s agents or employees shall not do any of the following:
1.   Sell, dispense, or give to any intoxicated person, or one simulating
intoxication, any alcoholic beverage.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[1])
2.   Sell or dispense any alcoholic beverage on the premises covered by the
license or permit, or permit its consumption thereon between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on a weekday, and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. on Sunday
and 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday; however, a holder of a liquor control
license or retail wine or beer permit granted the privilege of selling
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer on Sunday may sell or dispense alcoholic
liquor, wine, or beer between the hours of 6:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. of
the following Monday, and further provided that a holder of any class of liquor
control license or the holder of a Class “B” beer permit may sell or dispense
alcoholic liquor, wine, or beer for consumption on the premises between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on Monday when that Monday is New
Year’s Day and beer for consumption off the premises between the hours of 6:00
a.m. on Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on the following Monday when that Sunday is the
day before New Year’s Day.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2b] and 123.150)
3.   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person on credit, except with a bona fide
credit card. This provision does not apply to sales by a club to its members,
to sales by a hotel or motel to bona fide registered guests, or to retail sales
by the managing entity of a convention center, civic center, or events center.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2c])
4.   Employ a person under 18 years of age in the sale or serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2f])
5.   In the case of a retail wine or beer permittee, knowingly allow the mixing
or adding of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage to wine, beer, or any other
beverage in or about the permittee’s place of business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2i])
6.   Knowingly permit any gambling, except in accordance with Iowa law, or
knowingly permit any solicitation for immoral purposes, or immoral or
disorderly conduct on the premises covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2a])
7.   Knowingly permit or engage in any criminal activity on the premises
covered by the license or permit.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2j])
8.   Keep on premises covered by a liquor control license any alcoholic liquor
in any container except the original package purchased from the Alcoholic
Beverages Division of the State Department of Commerce and except mixed drinks
or cocktails mixed on the premises for immediate consumption. However, mixed
drinks or cocktails that are mixed on the premises and are not for immediate
consumption may be consumed on the licensed premises, subject to rules adopted
by the Alcoholic Beverages Division.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2d])
9.   Reuse for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine any container or receptacle
used originally for packaging alcoholic liquor or wine; or adulterate, by the
addition of any substance, the contents or remaining contents of an original
package of an alcoholic liquor or wine; or knowingly possess any original
package that has been reused or adulterated.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2e])
10.   Allow any person other than the licensee, permittee, or employees of the
licensee or permittee to use or keep on the licensed premises any alcoholic
liquor in any bottle or other container that is designed for the transporting
of such beverages, except as allowed by State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[2g])
11.   Sell, give, possess, or otherwise supply a machine that is used to
vaporize an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of being consumed in a vaporized
form.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 123.49[21])
120.06   AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
The following provisions pertain to electrical or mechanical amusement devices
possessed and used in accordance with Chapter 99B of the Code of Iowa. (Said
devices are allowed only in premises with a liquor control license or beer
permit, as specifically authorized in said Chapter 99B.)
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 99B.57)
1.   As used in this section, “registered electrical or mechanical amusement
device” means an electrical or mechanical device required to be registered with
the Iowa Department of Inspection and Appeals, as provided in Section 99B.53 of
the Code of Iowa.
2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to participate in the
operation of a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device.
3.   It is unlawful for any person owning or leasing a registered electrical or
mechanical amusement device, or an employee of a person owning or leasing a
registered electrical or mechanical amusement device, to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 21 to participate in the operation of a registered
electrical or mechanical amusement device.
4.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly participate in the operation of
a registered electrical or mechanical amusement device with a person under the
age of 21.
CHAPTER 121
CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO PERMITS
 
121.01 Definitions             121.06 Refunds
121.02 Permit Required         121.07 Persons Under Legal Age
121.03 Application             121.08 Self-service Sales Prohibited
121.04 Fees                    121.09 Permit Revocation
121.05 Issuance and Expiration
 
121.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.1)
1.   “Alternative nicotine product” means a product, not consisting of or
containing tobacco, that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing, or
by any other means. “Alternative nicotine product” does not include cigarettes,
tobacco products, or vapor products, or a product that is regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
2.   “Cigarette” means any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco,
or any substitute for tobacco, irrespective of size or shape and irrespective
of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco being flavored, adulterated, or mixed
with any other ingredient, where such roll has a wrapper or cover made of paper
or any other material. However, cigarette shall not be construed to include
cigars.
3.   “Place of business” means any place where cigarettes, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold, stored or kept for
the purpose of sale or consumption by a retailer.
4.    “Retailer” means every person who sells, distributes or offers for sale
for consumption, or possesses for the purpose of sale for consumption,
cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products, irrespective of
the quantity or amount or the number of sales, or who engages in the business
of selling tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products to ultimate consumers.
5.   “Self-service display” means any manner of product display, placement, or
storage from which a person purchasing the product may take possession of the
product, prior to purchase, without assistance from the retailer or employee of
the retailer, in removing the product from a restricted access location.
6.   “Tobacco products” means the following: cigars; little cigars; cheroots;
stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and other
smoking tobacco; snuff; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other
chewing tobaccos; shorts or refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of
tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such manner as to be
suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or for both chewing and
smoking, but does not mean cigarettes.
7.   “Vapor product” means any noncombustible product, which may or may not
contain nicotine, that employs a heating element, power source, electronic
circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of
shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from a solution or other
substance. “Vapor product” includes an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any
cartridge or other container of a solution or other substance, which may or may
not contain nicotine, that is intended to be used with or in an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar
product or device. “Vapor product” does not include a product regulated as a
drug or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter
V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
121.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
1.   Retail Cigarette Permits. It is unlawful for any person, other than a
holder of a retail permit, to sell cigarettes, alternative nicotine products,
or vapor products at retail and no retailer shall distribute, sell, or solicit
the sale of any cigarettes, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products
within the City without a valid permit for each place of business. The permit
shall, at all times, be publicly displayed at the place of business so as to be
easily seen by the public and the persons authorized to inspect the place of
business.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13)
2.   Retail Tobacco Permits. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a retailer of tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or vapor products at any place of business without first having
received a permit as a retailer for each place of business owned or operated by
the retailer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.47A)
A retailer who holds a retail cigarette permit is not required to also obtain a
retail tobacco permit. However, if a retailer only holds a retail cigarette
permit and that permit is suspended, revoked, or expired, the retailer shall
not sell any tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor
products, during such time.
121.03   APPLICATION.
A completed application on forms provided by the State Department of Revenue or
on forms made available or approved by the Department and accompanied by the
required fee be filed with the Clerk. Renewal applications shall be filed at
least five days prior to the last regular meeting of the Council in June. If a
renewal application is not timely filed, and a special Council meeting is
called to act on the application, the costs of such special meeting shall be
paid by the applicant.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.04   FEES.
The fee for a retail cigarette or tobacco permit shall be as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
 
FOR PERMITS GRANTED DURING:   FEE:
July, August or September     $ 75.00
October, November or December $ 56.25
January, February or March    $ 37.50
April, May or June            $ 18.75
 
121.05   ISSUANCE AND EXPIRATION.
Upon proper application and payment of the required fee, a permit shall be
issued. Each permit issued shall describe clearly the place of business for
which it is issued and shall be nonassignable. All permits expire on June 30 of
each year. The Clerk shall submit a duplicate of any application for a permit
to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within 30
days of issuance of a permit.
121.06   REFUNDS.
A retailer may surrender an unrevoked permit and receive a refund from the
City, except during April, May or June, in accordance with the schedule of
refunds as provided in Section 453A.13 or 453A.47A of the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, 453A.13 and 453A.47A)
121.07   PERSONS UNDER LEGAL AGE.
No person shall sell, give or otherwise supply any tobacco, tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, vapor products or cigarettes to any person under
18 years of age. The provision of this section includes prohibiting a minor
from purchasing tobacco or tobacco products and cigarettes from a vending
machine. If a retailer or employee of a retailer violates the provisions of
this section, the Council shall, after written notice and hearing, and in
addition to the other penalties fixed for such violation, assess the following:
1.   For a first violation, the retailer shall be assessed a civil penalty in
the amount of $300.00. Failure to pay the civil penalty as ordered under this
subsection shall result in automatic suspension of the permit for a period of
14 days.
2.   For a second violation within a period of two years, the retailer shall be
assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 or the retailer’s permit
shall be suspended for a period of 30 days. The retailer may select its
preference in the penalty to be applied under this subsection.
3.   For a third violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
4.   For a fourth violation within a period of three years, the retailer shall
be assessed a civil penalty in the amount of $1,500.00 and the retailer’s
permit shall be suspended for a period of 60 days.
5.   For a fifth violation with a period of four years, the retailer’s permit
shall be revoked.
The Clerk shall give 10 days’ written notice to the retailer by mailing a copy
of the notice to the place of business as it appears on the application for a
permit. The notice shall state the reason for the contemplated action and the
time and place at which the retailer may appear and be heard.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.2, 453A.22, and 453A.36[6])
121.08   SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED.
Except for the sale of cigarettes through a cigarette vending machine as
provided in Section 453A.36[6] of the Code of Iowa, a retailer shall not sell
or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
vapor products, or cigarettes, through the use of a self-service display.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.36A)
121.09   PERMIT REVOCATION.
Following a written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, as provided by the
Code of Iowa, the Council may also revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter for a violation of Division I of Chapter 453A of the Code of Iowa or
any rule adopted thereunder. If a permit is revoked, a new permit shall not be
issued to the permit holder for any place of business, or to any other person
for the place of business at which the violation occurred, until one year has
expired from the date of revocation, unless good cause to the contrary is shown
to the Council. The Clerk shall report the revocation or suspension of a retail
permit to the Alcoholic Beverages Division of the Department of Commerce within
30 days of the revocation or suspension.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 453A.22)
CHAPTER 122
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
122.01 Purpose                  122.10 Time Restriction
122.02 Definitions              122.11 Revocation of License
122.03 License Required         122.12 Notice
122.04 Application for License  122.13 Hearing
122.05 License Fees             122.14 Record and Determination
122.06 Bond Required            122.15 Appeal
122.07 License Issued           122.16 Effect of Revocation
122.08 Display of License       122.17 License Exemptions
122.09 License Not Transferable 122.18 Charitable and Nonprofit Organizations
 
122.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect residents of the City against fraud,
unfair competition and intrusion into the privacy of their homes by licensing
and regulating peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants.
122.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Peddler” means any person carrying goods or merchandise who sells or
offers for sale for immediate delivery such goods or merchandise from house to
house or upon the public street.
2.   “Solicitor” means any person who solicits or attempts to solicit from
house to house or upon the public street any contribution or donation or any
order for goods, services, subscriptions or merchandise to be delivered at a
future date.
3.   “Transient merchant” means any person who engages in a temporary or
itinerant merchandising business and in the course of such business hires,
leases or occupies any building or structure whatsoever, or who operates out of
a vehicle which is parked anywhere within the City limits. Temporary
association with a local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer, or conduct of
such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any
local merchant, dealer, trader or auctioneer does not exempt any person from
being considered a transient merchant.
122.03   LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any person engaging in peddling, soliciting or in the business of a transient
merchant in the City without first obtaining a license as herein provided is in
violation of this chapter.
122.04   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
An application in writing shall be filed with the Clerk for a license under
this chapter. Such application shall set forth the applicant’s name, permanent
and local address and business address if any. The application shall also set
forth the applicant’s employer, if any, and the employer’s address, the nature
of the applicant’s business, the last three places of such business and the
length of time sought to be covered by the license.
122.05   LICENSE FEES.
The application and license fees shall be set by a resolution approved by the
Council and paid to the Clerk prior to issuance of any license.
122.06   BOND REQUIRED.
Before a license under this chapter is issued to a transient merchant, an
applicant shall provide to the Clerk evidence that the applicant has filed a
bond with the Secretary of State in accordance with Chapter 9C of the Code of
Iowa.
122.07   LICENSE ISSUED.
If the Clerk finds the application is completed in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter, the facts stated therein are found to be correct
and the license fee paid, a license shall be issued immediately.
122.08   DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Each solicitor or peddler shall keep such license in possession at all times
while doing business in the City and shall, upon the request of prospective
customers, exhibit the license as evidence of compliance with all requirements
of this chapter. Each transient merchant shall display publicly such merchant’s
license in the merchant’s place of business.
122.09   LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter are not transferable in
any situation and are to be applicable only to the person filing the
application.
122.10   TIME RESTRICTION.
All peddler’s and solicitor’s licenses shall provide that said licenses are in
force and effect only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
122.11   REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
After notice and hearing, the Clerk may revoke any license issued under this
chapter for the following reasons:
1.   Fraudulent Statements. The licensee has made fraudulent statements in the
application for the license or in the conduct of the business.
2.   Violation of Law. The licensee has violated this chapter or has otherwise
conducted the business in an unlawful manner.
3.   Endangered Public Welfare, Health or Safety. The licensee has conducted
the business in such manner as to endanger the public welfare, safety, order or
morals.
122.12   NOTICE.
The Clerk shall send a notice to the licensee at the licensee’s local address,
not less than 10 days before the date set for a hearing on the possible
revocation of a license. Such notice shall contain particulars of the
complaints against the licensee, the ordinance provisions or State statutes
allegedly violated, and the date, time and place for hearing on the matter.
122.13   HEARING.
The Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which both the licensee and any
complainants shall be present to determine the truth of the facts alleged in
the complaint and notice. Should the licensee, or authorized representative,
fail to appear without good cause, the Clerk may proceed to a determination of
the complaint.
122.14   RECORD AND DETERMINATION.
The Clerk shall make and record findings of fact and conclusions of law, and
shall revoke a license only when upon review of the entire record the Clerk
finds clear and convincing evidence of substantial violation of this chapter or
State law.
122.15   APPEAL.
If the Clerk revokes or refuses to issue a license, the Clerk shall make a part
of the record the reasons therefor. The licensee, or the applicant, shall have
a right to a hearing before the Council at its next regular meeting. The
Council may reverse, modify or affirm the decision of the Clerk by a majority
vote of the Council members present and the Clerk shall carry out the decision
of the Council.
122.16   EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
Revocation of any license shall bar the licensee from being eligible for any
license under this chapter for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
122.17   LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
The following are excluded from the application of this chapter.
1.   Newspapers. Persons delivering, collecting for or selling subscriptions to
newspapers.
2.   Club Members. Members of local civic and service clubs, Boy Scout, Girl
Scout, 4-H Clubs, Future Farmers of America and similar organizations.
3.   Local Residents and Farmers. Local residents and farmers who offer for
sale their own products.
4.   Students. Students representing the Galva-Holstein Community School
District conducting projects sponsored by organizations recognized by the
school.
5.   Route Sales. Route delivery persons who only incidentally solicit
additional business or make special sales.
6.   Resale or Institutional Use. Persons customarily calling on businesses or
institutions for the purposes of selling products for resale or institutional
use.
7.   Minor Businesses. An on-site transactional business traditionally operated
exclusively by a person under the age of 18, operated on an occasional basis
for no more than 89 calendar days in a calendar year.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.3[13])
122.18   CHARITABLE AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
Authorized representatives of charitable or nonprofit organizations operating
under the provisions of Chapter 504 of the Code of Iowa desiring to solicit
money or to distribute literature are exempt from the operation of Sections
122.04 and
122.05. All such organizations are required to submit in writing to the Clerk
the name and purpose of the cause for which such activities are sought, names
and addresses of the officers and directors of the organization, the period
during which such activities are to be carried on, and whether any commissions,
fees or wages are to be charged by the solicitor and the amount thereof. If the
Clerk finds that the organization is a bona fide charity or nonprofit
organization the Clerk shall issue, free of charge, a license containing the
above information to the applicant. In the event the Clerk denies the
exemption, the authorized representatives of the organization may appeal the
decision to the Council, as provided in Section
122.15 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 123
HOUSE MOVERS
 
123.01 House Mover Defined 123.07 Permit Issued
123.02 Permit Required     123.08 Public Safety
123.03 Application         123.09 Time Limit
123.04 Bond Required       123.10 Removal by City
123.05 Insurance Required  123.11 Protect Pavement
123.06 Permit Fee          123.12 Overhead Wires
 
123.01   HOUSE MOVER DEFINED.
A “house mover” means any person who undertakes to move a building or similar
structure upon, over or across public streets or property when the building or
structure is of such size that it requires the use of skids, jacks, dollies or
any other specialized moving equipment.
123.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the activity of house mover as
herein defined without a valid permit from the City for each house, building or
similar structure to be moved. Buildings of less than 100 square feet are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
123.03   APPLICATION.
Application for a house mover’s permit shall be made in writing to the Clerk.
The application shall include:
1.   Name and Address. The applicant’s full name and address and if a
corporation the names and addresses of its principal officers.
2.   Building Location. An accurate description of the present location and
future site of the building or similar structure to be moved.
3.   Routing Plan. A routing plan approved by the City Administrator, street
superintendent, and public utility officials. The route approved shall be the
shortest route compatible with the greatest public convenience and safety.
123.04   BOND REQUIRED.
The applicant shall post with the Clerk a penal bond in the minimum sum of
$5,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such bonds in the
State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any damage done to
the City or to public property, and payment of all costs incurred by the City
in the course of moving the building or structure.
123.05   INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Each applicant shall also file a certificate of insurance indicating that the
applicant is carrying public liability insurance in effect for the duration of
the permit covering the applicant and all agents and employees for the
following minimum amounts:
1.   Bodily Injury – $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
2.   Property Damage – $50,000.00 per accident.
123.06   PERMIT FEE.
A permit fee set by resolution shall be payable at the time of filing the
application with the Clerk. A separate permit shall be required for each house,
building or similar structure to be moved.
123.07   PERMIT ISSUED.
Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and insurance certificate, and
payment of the required fee, the Clerk shall issue a permit.
123.08   PUBLIC SAFETY.
At all times when a building or similar structure is in motion upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or public property, the permittee shall maintain flag persons
at the closest intersections or other possible channels of traffic to the
sides, behind and ahead of the building or structure. At all times when the
building or structure is at rest upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public
property the permittee shall maintain adequate warning signs or lights at the
intersections or channels of traffic to the sides, behind and ahead of the
building or structure.
123.09   TIME LIMIT.
No house mover shall permit or allow a building or similar structure to remain
upon any street or other public way for a period of more than 12 hours without
having first secured the written approval of the City.
123.10   REMOVAL BY CITY.
In the event any building or similar structure is found to be in violation of
Section
123.09 the City is authorized to remove such building or structure and assess
the costs thereof against the permit holder and the surety on the permit
holder’s bond.
123.11   PROTECT PAVEMENT.
It is unlawful to move any house or building of any kind over any pavement,
unless the wheels or rollers upon which the house or building is moved are at
least one inch in width for each 1,000 pounds of weight of such building. If
there is any question as to the weight of a house or building, the estimate of
the City as to such weight shall be final.
123.12   OVERHEAD WIRES.
The holder of any permit to move a building shall see that all telephone, cable
television and electric wires and poles are removed when necessary and replaced
in good order, and shall be liable for the costs of the same.
CHAPTER 124
HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX.
 
124.01 Definitions    124.05 Use of Revenues
124.02 Tax Imposed    124.06 Collection
124.03 Effective Date 124.07 Penalty
124.04 Tax exemptions
 
124.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Lodging” means rooms, apartments, or sleeping quarters in a hotel, motel,
inn, public lodging house, rooming house, or manufactured or mobile home which
is tangible personal property, or in a tourist court, or in any place where
sleeping accommodations are furnished to transient guests for rent, whether
with or without meals. Lodging does not include rooms that are not used for
sleeping accommodations.
2.   “Renting” or “rent” means a transfer of possession or control of lodging
for a fixed or indeterminate term for consideration and includes any kind of
direct or indirect charge for such lodging or its use.
3.   “Sales price” means the consideration for renting of lodging and means the
same as the term is defined in Section 423.1 of the Code of Iowa.
All other words and phrases used in this chapter and defined in Section 423.1
of the Code of Iowa have the meaning given them by Section 423.1 for the
purposes of this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 423A.2)
124.02   TAX IMPOSED.
There is hereby imposed a seven percent local hotel and motel tax upon the
sales price from the renting of lodging within the City.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 423A.4)
124.03   EFFECTIVE DATE.
The tax established by virtue of this chapter shall be imposed on or after
January 1, 2011.
124.04   TAX EXEMPTIONS.
All of the following are exempted from the provisions of this chapter and from
the computation of any amount of tax imposed by Section
124.02:
1.   The sales price from the renting of lodging to a person where the lodging
is rented by the same person for a period of more than 31 consecutive days,
except as provided in Subsection 2 of this section.
2.   The sales price from the renting of lodging to a person where the lodging
is rented by the same person for the period beginning after 90 consecutive days
of rental by such person, if the rental is a room, apartment, or sleeping
quarter in a hotel, motel, inn, public lodging house, or rooming house, or in
any place where sleeping accommodations are furnished to a transient guest.
3.   The sales price of lodging furnished to the guests of a religious
institution if the property is exempt under Section 427.1[8] of the Code of
Iowa, and the purpose of renting is to provide a place for a religious retreat
or function and not a place for transient guests generally.
4.   The sales price from the renting of sleeping rooms in dormitories and in
memorial unions at all universities and colleges located in the City.
5.   The sales price of lodging furnished to the guests of a nonprofit lodging
provider and the purpose of renting is to provide a place for the friends and
family of a hospital patient during a time of medical need of the patient and
the length of stay is based upon the needs of the friends, family, or patient.
For purposes of this subsection, “nonprofit lodging provider” means a nonprofit
entity which is exempt from federal income taxation pursuant to Section 501(c)
(3) of the Internal Revenue Code that maintains an established facility that
provides lodging to friends and family of a hospital patient during a time of
medical need of the patient.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 423A.5)
124.05   USE OF REVENUES.
The revenue derived from the hotel and motel tax imposed by this chapter shall
be used as follows:
1.   Fifty percent of the revenue shall be used for the acquisition of sites
for, or constructing, improving, enlarging, equipping, repairing, operating, or
maintaining of recreation, convention, cultural, or entertainment facilities,
including (but not limited to) memorial buildings, halls, monuments, civic
center convention buildings, auditoriums, coliseums, and parking areas or
facilities located at those recreation, convention, cultural, or entertainment
facilities or the payment of principal and interest, when due, on bonds or
other evidence of indebtedness issued by the County or City for those
recreation, convention, cultural, or entertainment facilities, or the promotion
and encouragement of tourist and convention business in the County or City and
surrounding areas.
2.   The remaining revenues may be spent by the City or County which levies the
tax for any City or County operations authorized by law as a proper purpose for
the expenditure within statutory limitations of City or County revenues derived
from ad valorem taxes.
124.06   COLLECTION.
The tax imposed in this chapter shall be remitted by the person or company
liable for same to the State Director of Revenue in the manner required by
State law.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 423A.6)
124.07   PENALTY.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in this Code of Ordinances or the Code of Iowa, and violation may
constitute a municipal infraction.
CHAPTER 135
STREET USE AND MAINTENANCE.
 
135.01 Removal of Warning Devices 135.08 Burning Prohibited
135.02 Obstructing or Defacing    135.09 Excavations
135.03 Placing Debris On          135.10 Property Owner’s Responsibility for
                                  Maintenance
135.04 Playing In                 135.11 Failure to Maintain
135.05 Traveling on Barricaded    135.12 Dumping of Snow
Street or Alley
135.06 Use for Business Purposes  135.13 Driveway Culverts
135.07 Washing Vehicles
 
135.01   REMOVAL OF WARNING DEVICES.
It is unlawful for a person to willfully remove, throw down, destroy or carry
away from any street or alley any lamp, obstruction, guard or other article or
things, or extinguish any lamp or other light, erected or placed thereupon for
the purpose of guarding or enclosing unsafe or dangerous places in said street
or alley without the consent of the person in control thereof.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.02   OBSTRUCTING OR DEFACING.
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, deface, or injure any street or
alley in any manner.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
135.03   PLACING DEBRIS ON.
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or alley any
glass, glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter,
offal, leaves, grass or any other debris likely to be washed into the storm
sewer and clog the storm sewer, or any substance likely to injure any person,
animal or vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 321.369)
135.04   PLAYING IN.
It is unlawful for any person to coast, sled or play games on streets or
alleys, except in the areas blocked off by the City for such purposes.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
135.05   TRAVELING ON BARRICADED STREET OR ALLEY.
It is unlawful for any person to travel or operate any vehicle on any street or
alley temporarily closed by barricades, lights, signs, or flares placed thereon
by the authority or permission of any City official, police officer or member
of the Fire Department.
135.06   USE FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
It is unlawful to park, store or place, temporarily or permanently, any
machinery or junk or any other goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind upon
any street or alley for the purpose of storage, exhibition, sale or offering
same for sale, without permission of the Council.
135.07   WASHING VEHICLES.
It is unlawful for any person to use any public sidewalk, street or alley for
the purpose of washing or cleaning any automobile, truck equipment, or any
vehicle of any kind when such work is done for hire or as a business. This does
not prevent any person from washing or cleaning his or her own vehicle or
equipment when it is lawfully parked in the street or alley.
135.08   BURNING PROHIBITED.
No person shall burn any trash, leaves, rubbish or other combustible material
in any curb and gutter or on any paved or surfaced street or alley.
135.09   EXCAVATIONS.
No person shall dig, excavate or in any manner disturb any street, parking or
alley except in accordance with the following:
1.   Permit Required. No excavation shall be commenced without first obtaining
a permit therefor. A written application for such permit shall be filed with
the City and shall contain the following:
   A.   An exact description of the property, by lot and street number, in
front of or along which it is desired to excavate;
   B.   A statement of the purpose, for whom and by whom the excavation is to
be made;
   C.   The person responsible for the refilling of said excavation and
restoration of the street or alley surface; and
   D.   Date of commencement of the work and estimated completion date.
2.   Public Convenience. Streets and alleys shall be opened in the manner which
will cause the least inconvenience to the public and admit the uninterrupted
passage of water along the gutter on the street.
3.   Barricades, Fencing and Lighting. Adequate barricades, fencing and warning
lights meeting standards specified by the City shall be so placed as to protect
the public from hazard. Any costs incurred by the City in providing or
maintaining adequate barricades, fencing or warning lights shall be paid to the
City by the permit holder/property owner.
4.   Bond Required. The applicant shall post with the City a penal bond in the
minimum sum of $1,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to issue such
bonds in the State. The bond shall guarantee the permittee’s payment for any
damage done to the City or to public property, and payment of all costs
incurred by the City in the course of administration of this section. In lieu
of a surety bond, a cash deposit of $1,000.00 may be filed with the City.
5.   Insurance Required. Each applicant shall also file a certificate of
insurance indicating that the applicant is carrying public liability insurance
in effect for the duration of the permit covering the applicant and all agents
and employees for the following minimum amounts:
   A.   Bodily Injury - $50,000.00 per person; $100,000.00 per accident.
   B.   Property Damage - $50,000.00 per accident.
6.   Restoration of Public Property. Streets, sidewalks, alleys and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to the
condition of the property prior to the commencement of the work, or in a manner
satisfactory to the City, at the expense of the permit holder/property owner.
7.   Inspection. All work shall be subject to inspection by the City. Backfill
shall not be deemed completed, nor resurfacing of any improved street or alley
surface begun, until such backfill is inspected and approved by the City. The
permit holder/property owner shall provide the City with notice at least 24
hours prior to the time when inspection of backfill is desired.
8.   Completion by the City. Should any excavation in any street or alley be
discontinued or left open and unfinished for a period of 24 hours after the
approved completion date, or in the event the work is improperly done, the City
has the right to finish or correct the excavation work and charge any expenses
therefor to the permit holder/property owner.
9.   Responsibility for Costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
excavation shall be borne by the permit holder and/or property owner. The
permit holder and owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by such excavation.
10.   Notification. At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the
excavation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, the person
performing the excavation shall contact the Statewide Notification Center and
provide the center with the information required under Section 480.4 of the
Code of Iowa.
11.   Permit Fee. A permit fee set by resolution shall be payable at the time
of filing the application with the City. A separate permit shall be required
for each excavation.
12.   Permit Issued. Upon approval of the application, filing of bond and
insurance certificate, and payment of any required fees, a permit shall be
issued.
13.   Permit Exemption. Utility companies are exempt from the permit
application requirement of this section. They shall, however, comply with all
other pertinent provisions.
135.10   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain all property outside the lot and
property lines and inside the curb lines upon public streets and shall keep
such area in a safe condition, free from nuisances, obstructions, and hazards.
In the absence of a curb, such property shall extend from the property line to
that portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner shall not be required to remove diseased trees or dead
wood on the publicly owned property or right-of-way. Maintenance includes, but
is not limited to, timely mowing, trimming trees and shrubs, and picking up
litter and debris. The abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused
by failure to maintain the publicly owned property or right-of-way.† 9
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2c])
 
Notes
  † EDITOR’S NOTE: See also Section
9 136.04 relating to property owner’s responsibility for maintenance of
  sidewalks.
135.11   FAILURE TO MAINTAIN.
If the abutting property owner does not perform an action required under the
above section within a reasonable time, the City may perform the required
action and assess the cost against the abutting property for collection in the
same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2e])
135.12   DUMPING OF SNOW.
It is unlawful for any person to throw, push, or place or cause to be thrown,
pushed or placed, any ice or snow from private property, sidewalks, or
driveways onto the traveled way of a street or alley so as to obstruct gutters,
or impede the passage of vehicles upon the street or alley or to create a
hazardous condition therein; except where, in the cleaning of large commercial
drives in the business district it is absolutely necessary to move the snow
onto the street or alley temporarily, such accumulation shall be removed
promptly by the property owner or agent. Arrangements for the prompt removal of
such accumulations shall be made prior to moving the snow.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12 [2])
135.13   DRIVEWAY CULVERTS.
The property owner shall, at the owner’s expense, install any culvert deemed
necessary under any driveway or any other access to the owner’s property, and
before installing a culvert, permission must first be obtained from the City.
In the event repairs are needed at any time with respect to culverts, it shall
be the responsibility of the property owner to make such repairs, and, in the
event the owner fails to do so, the City shall have the right to make the
repairs. If the property owner fails to reimburse the City for the cost of said
repairs, the cost shall be certified to the County Treasurer and specially
assessed against the property as by law provided.
CHAPTER 136
SIDEWALK REGULATIONS.
136.01 Purpose                                136.11 Interference with Sidewalk
                                              Improvements
136.02 Definitions                            136.12 Awnings
136.03 Removal of Snow, Ice and Accumulations 136.13 Encroaching Steps
136.04 Property Owner’s Responsibility for  136.14 Openings and Enclosures
Maintenance
136.05 City May Order Repairs                 136.15 Fires or Fuel on Sidewalks
136.06 Sidewalk Construction Ordered          136.16 Defacing
136.07 Permit Required                        136.17 Debris on Sidewalks
136.08 Sidewalk Standards                     136.18 Merchandise Display
136.09 Barricades and Warning Lights          136.19 Sales Stands
136.10 Failure to Repair or Barricade
 
136.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to enhance safe passage by citizens on
sidewalks, to place the responsibility for the maintenance, repair, replacement
or reconstruction of sidewalks upon the abutting property owner and to minimize
the liability of the City.
136.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter the following terms are defined:
1.   “Broom finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by sweeping the
sidewalk when it is hardening.
2.   “Established grade” means that grade established by the City for the
particular area in which a sidewalk is to be constructed.
3.   “One-course construction” means that the full thickness of the concrete is
placed at one time, using the same mixture throughout.
4.   “Owner” means the person owning the fee title to property abutting any
sidewalk and includes any contract purchaser for purposes of notification
required herein. For all other purposes, “owner” includes the lessee, if any.
5.   “Portland cement” means any type of cement except bituminous cement.
6.   “Sidewalk” means all permanent public walks in business, residential or
suburban areas.
7.   “Sidewalk improvements” means the construction, reconstruction, repair,
replacement or removal, of a public sidewalk and/or the excavating, filling or
depositing of material in the public right-of-way in connection therewith.
8.   “Wood float finish” means a sidewalk finish that is made by smoothing the
surface of the sidewalk with a wooden trowel.
136.03   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE AND ACCUMULATIONS.
The abutting property owner shall remove snow, ice, and accumulations promptly
from sidewalks. If a property owner does not remove snow, ice or accumulations
within a reasonable time, the City may do so and assess the costs against the
property owner for collection in the same manner as a property tax. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to remove
snow, ice, and accumulations promptly from the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2b and e])
136.04   PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
The abutting property owner shall maintain in a safe and hazard-free condition
any sidewalk outside the lot and property lines and inside the curb lines or,
in the absence of a curb, any sidewalk between the property line and that
portion of the public street used or improved for vehicular purposes. The
abutting property owner may be liable for damages caused by failure to maintain
the sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12 [2c])
136.05   CITY MAY ORDER REPAIRS.
If the abutting property owner does not maintain sidewalks as required, the
Council may serve notice on such owner, by certified mail, requiring the owner
to repair, replace or reconstruct sidewalks within a reasonable time and if
such action is not completed within the time stated in the notice, the Council
may require the work to be done and assess the costs against the abutting
property for collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2d and e])
136.06   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION ORDERED.
The Council may order the construction of permanent sidewalks upon any street
or court in the City and may specially assess the cost of such improvement to
abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 384 of
the Code of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 384.38)
136.07   PERMIT REQUIRED.
No person shall remove, reconstruct or install a sidewalk unless such person
has obtained a permit from the City and has agreed in writing that said
removal, reconstruction or installation will comply with all ordinances and
requirements of the City for such work.
136.08   SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
Sidewalks repaired, replaced or constructed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be of the following construction and meet the following
standards:
1.   Cement. Portland cement shall be the only cement used in the construction
and repair of sidewalks.
2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be of one-course construction.
3.   Sidewalk Base. Concrete may be placed directly on compact and well-drained
soil. Where soil is not well drained, a three-inch sub-base of compact, clean,
coarse gravel or sand shall be laid. The adequacy of the soil drainage is to be
determined by the City.
4.   Sidewalk Bed. The sidewalk bed shall be so graded that the constructed
sidewalk will be at established grade.
5.   Length, Width and Depth. Length, width and depth requirements are as
follows:
   A.   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four inches
thick, and each section shall be no more than six feet in length.
   B.   Business District sidewalks shall extend from the property line to the
curb. Each section shall be four inches thick and no more than six feet in
length.
   C.   Driveway areas shall be not less than six inches in thickness.
6.   Location. Residential sidewalks shall be located with the inner edge (edge
nearest the abutting private property) on the property line, unless the Council
establishes a different distance due to special circumstances.
7.   Grade. Curb tops shall be on level with the centerline of the street which
shall be the established grade.
8.   Elevations. The street edge of a sidewalk shall be at an elevation even
with the curb at the curb or not less than one-half inch above the curb for
each foot between the curb and the sidewalk.
9.   Slope. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch per foot toward the curb.
10.   Finish. All sidewalks shall be finished with a “broom” or “wood float”
finish.
11.   Curb Ramps and Sloped Areas for Persons with Disabilities. If a street,
road, or highway is newly built or reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area
shall be constructed or installed at each intersection of the street, road, or
highway with a sidewalk or path. If a sidewalk or path is newly built or
reconstructed, a curb ramp or sloped area shall be constructed or installed at
each intersection of the sidewalk or path with a street, highway, or road. Curb
ramps and sloped areas that are required pursuant to this subsection shall be
constructed or installed in compliance with applicable federal requirements
adopted in accordance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act,
including (but not limited to) the guidelines issued by the Federal
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 216C.9)
136.09   BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
Whenever any material of any kind is deposited on any street, avenue, highway,
passageway or alley when sidewalk improvements are being made or when any
sidewalk is in a dangerous condition, it shall be the duty of all persons
having an interest therein, either as the contractor or the owner, agent, or
lessee of the property in front of or along which such material may be
deposited, or such dangerous condition exists, to put in conspicuous places at
each end of such sidewalk and at each end of any pile of material deposited in
the street, a sufficient number of approved warning lights or flares, and to
keep them lighted during the entire night and to erect sufficient barricades
both at night and in the daytime to secure the same. The party or parties using
the street for any of the purposes specified in this chapter shall be liable
for all injuries or damage to persons or property arising from any wrongful act
or negligence of the party or parties, or their agents or employees or for any
misuse of the privileges conferred by this chapter or of any failure to comply
with provisions hereof.
136.10   FAILURE TO REPAIR OR BARRICADE.
It is the duty of the owner of the property abutting the sidewalk, or the
owner’s contractor or agent, to notify the City immediately in the event of
failure or inability to make necessary sidewalk improvements or to install or
erect necessary barricades as required by this chapter.
136.11   INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
No person shall knowingly or willfully drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any sidewalk or approach thereto while in the process of being improved or upon
any portion of any completed sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove or
destroy any part or all of any sidewalk or approach thereto, or shall remove,
destroy, mar or deface any sidewalk at any time or destroy, mar, remove or
deface any notice provided by this chapter.
136.12   AWNINGS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any awning over any sidewalk
unless all parts of the awning are elevated at least eight feet above the
surface of the sidewalk and the roof or covering is made of duck, canvas or
other suitable material supported by iron frames or brackets securely fastened
to the building, without any posts or other device that will obstruct the
sidewalk or hinder or interfere with the free passage of pedestrians.
136.13   ENCROACHING STEPS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or maintain any stairs or steps to any
building upon any part of any sidewalk without permission by resolution of the
Council.
136.14   OPENINGS AND ENCLOSURES.
It is unlawful for a person to:
1.   Stairs and Railings. Construct or build a stairway or passageway to any
cellar or basement by occupying any part of the sidewalk, or to enclose any
portion of a sidewalk with a railing without permission by resolution of the
Council.
2.   Openings. Keep open any cellar door, grating or cover to any vault on any
sidewalk except while in actual use with adequate guards to protect the public.
3.   Protect Openings. Neglect to properly protect or barricade all openings on
or within six feet of any sidewalk.
136.15   FIRES OR FUEL ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to make a fire of any kind on any sidewalk or to
place or allow any fuel to remain upon any sidewalk.
136.16   DEFACING.
It is unlawful for a person to scatter or place any paste, paint, or writing on
any sidewalk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 716.1)
136.17   DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
It is unlawful for a person to throw or deposit on any sidewalk any glass,
nails, glass bottle, tacks, wire, cans, trash, garbage, rubbish, litter, offal,
or any other debris, or any substance likely to injure any person, animal or
vehicle.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[2])
136.18   MERCHANDISE DISPLAY.
It is unlawful for a person to place upon or above any sidewalk, any goods or
merchandise for sale or for display in such a manner as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted passage of pedestrians on the sidewalk; in no case shall
more than three feet of the sidewalk next to the building be occupied for such
purposes.
136.19   SALES STANDS.
It is unlawful for a person to erect or keep any vending machine or stand for
the sale of fruit, vegetables or other substances or commodities on any
sidewalk without first obtaining a written permit from the Council.
CHAPTER 137
VACATION AND DISPOSAL OF STREETS.
 
137.01 Power to Vacate                137.04 Findings Required
137.02 Planning and Zoning Commission 137.05 Disposal of Vacated Streets or
                                      Alleys
137.03 Notice of Vacation Hearing     137.06 Disposal by Gift Limited
137.01   POWER TO VACATE.
When, in the judgment of the Council, it would be in the best interest of the
City to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof or any public grounds, the
Council may do so by ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12 [2a])
137.02   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
Any proposal to vacate a street, alley, portion thereof or any public grounds
shall be referred by the Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its
study and recommendation prior to further consideration by the Council. The
Commission shall submit a written report including recommendations to the
Council within 30 days after the date the proposed vacation is referred to the
Commission.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 392.1)
137.03   NOTICE OF VACATION HEARING.
The Council shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing of the time
at which the proposal to vacate shall be considered.
137.04   FINDINGS REQUIRED.
No street, alley, portion thereof or any public grounds shall be vacated unless
the Council finds that:
1.   Public Use. The street, alley, portion thereof or any public ground
proposed to be vacated is not needed for the use of the public, and therefore,
its maintenance at public expense is no longer justified.
2.   Abutting Property. The proposed vacation will not deny owners of property
abutting on the street or alley reasonable access to their property.
137.05   DISPOSAL OF VACATED STREETS OR ALLEYS.
When in the judgment of the Council it would be in the best interest of the
City to dispose of a vacated street or alley, portion thereof or public ground,
the Council may do so in accordance with the provisions of Section 364.7, Code
of Iowa.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7)
137.06   DISPOSAL BY GIFT LIMITED.
The City may not dispose of real property by gift except to a governmental body
for a public purpose or to a fair.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.7[3])
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
EDITOR’S NOTE
The following ordinances, not codified herein and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted vacating certain streets, alleys and/or public
grounds and remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
38A           July 24, 1913
47A           April 25, 1917
49A           May 1, 1939
44            April 3, 1961
46            January 29, 1962
100           July 12, 1982
140           October 5, 1992
205           September 8, 2008
265           September 10, 2024
 
CHAPTER 138
STREET GRADES.
 
138.01 Established Grades 138.02 Record Maintained
 
138.01   ESTABLISHED GRADES.
The grades of all streets, alleys and sidewalks, which have been heretofore
established by ordinance are hereby confirmed, ratified and established as
official grades.
138.02   RECORD MAINTAINED.
The Clerk shall maintain a record of all established grades and furnish
information concerning such grades upon request.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing street and/or sidewalk grades and
remain in full force and effect.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED        ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED
58A           July 3, 1922
101           August 2, 1982
 
CHAPTER 139
NAMING OF STREETS.
 
139.01 Naming New Streets      139.04 Official Street Name Map
139.02 Changing Name of Street 139.05 Revision of Street Name Map
139.03 Recording Street Names
 
139.01   NAMING NEW STREETS.
New streets shall be assigned names in accordance with the following:
1.   Extension of Existing Street. Streets added to the City that are natural
extensions of existing streets shall be assigned the name of the existing
street.
2.   Resolution. All street names, except streets named as a part of a
subdivision or platting procedure, shall be named by resolution.
3.   Planning and Zoning Commission. Proposed street names shall be referred to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for review and recommendation.
139.02   CHANGING NAME OF STREET.
The Council may, by resolution, change the name of a street.
139.03   RECORDING STREET NAMES.
Following official action naming or changing the name of a street, the Clerk
shall file a copy thereof with the County Recorder, County Auditor and County
Assessor.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 354.26)
139.04   OFFICIAL STREET NAME MAP.
Streets within the City are named as shown on the Official Street Name Map
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
The Official Street Name Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
and bearing the seal of the City under the following words: “This is to certify
that this is the Official Street Name Map referred to in Section
139.04 of the Code of Ordinances of Holstein, Iowa.”
139.05   REVISION OF STREET NAME MAP.
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
street names, such changes shall be entered on the Official Street Name Map
promptly after the change has been approved by the Council with an entry on the
Official Street Name Map as follows: “On (date), by official action of the City
Council, the following changes were made in the Official Street Name Map:
(brief description),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the Clerk.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE 
The following ordinances not codified herein, and specifically saved from
repeal, have been adopted establishing or changing street names in the City.
ORDINANCE NO. ADOPTED            STREET NAME
143           September 13, 1993 Changes portion of Main Street to “Industrial
                                 Park”
145           December 6, 1993   Kinder Lane
 
CHAPTER 140
CONTROLLED ACCESS FACILITIES.
 
140.01 Exercise of Police Power 140.04 Access Controls Imposed
140.02 Definition               140.05 Parking Restricted
140.03 Right of Access Limited
 
140.01   EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the City under
Chapter 306A, Code of Iowa, for the preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and for the promotion of the general welfare.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.1)
140.02   DEFINITION.
The term “controlled access facility” means a highway or street especially
designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which owners or occupants of
abutting land or other persons have no right or easement or only a controlled
right or easement of access, light, air or view by reason of the fact that
their property abuts upon such controlled access facility or for any other
reason.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.2)
140.03   RIGHT OF ACCESS LIMITED.
No person has any right of ingress or egress to or from abutting lands onto or
across any controlled access facility, except at such designated points at
which access is permitted.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.4)
140.04   ACCESS CONTROLS IMPOSED.
There are hereby fixed and established controlled access facilities within the
City, described as follows:
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 306A.3)
1.   Project No. FN-248. On the Primary Road System extension improvement,
Project No. FN-248, Primary Road No. 59, within the City, regulating access to
and from abutting properties along said highway all in accordance with the
plans for such improvement identified as Project No. FN-248, on file in the
office of the Clerk.
140.05   PARKING RESTRICTED.
The parking of vehicles on or along controlled access facilities is restricted
as follows:
1.   Minor Street Approaches. Parking shall be prohibited on all minor street
approaches for a distance of 35 feet in advance of the stop sign.
2.   Minor Street Exits. Parking shall be prohibited on the exit side of a
minor street for a distance of 35 feet.
3.   Parallel Parking Permitted. There will be a single line of parallel
parking on each side of Main Street from Maple Street north to the beginning of
the 20-foot section of primary highway.
4.   Intersection. Parking shall be prohibited on the Primary Road Extensions a
distance of 55 feet in advance of the near crosswalk and a distance of 22 feet
beyond the far crosswalk.
5.   Project No. FN-248. Parking of any nature is prohibited on Project No. FN-
248 in any of the following specifically designated locations:
   A.   Main Street, on both sides, from the south corporate line to Maple
Street.
   B.   Main Street, on both sides, from the beginning of the 20-foot section
north to the corporate limits.
   C.   Second Street, on both sides, for a distance of 55 feet in advance of
the stop sign at Main Street.
CHAPTER 145
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
 
145.01 Enforcement Officer          145.05 Conduct of Hearing
145.02 General Definition of Unsafe 145.06 Posting of Signs
145.03 Unsafe Building              145.07 Right to Demolish; Municipal
                                    Infraction
145.04 Notice to Owner              145.08 Costs
 
145.01   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
The Council is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
145.02   GENERAL DEFINITION OF UNSAFE.
All buildings or structures that are structurally unsafe or not provided with
adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are, for the purpose of this
chapter, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or
removal in accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 657A.1 and 364.12[3a])
145.03   UNSAFE BUILDING.
“Unsafe building” means any structure or mobile home meeting any or all of the
following criteria:
1.   Various Inadequacies. Whenever the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, because of: (i) dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; (ii) faulty
construction; (iii) the removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building; (iv) the
deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or (v) any other cause,
is likely to partially or completely collapse.
2.   Manifestly Unsafe. Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or
any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used.
3.   Inadequate Maintenance. Whenever a building or structure, used or intended
to be used for dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction, or otherwise, is determined by any health officer to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that it is likely
to cause sickness or disease.
4.   Fire Hazard. Whenever any building or structure, because of dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, or other cause, is determined by the Fire
Marshal or Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.
5.   Abandoned. Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
145.04   NOTICE TO OWNER.
The enforcement officer shall examine or cause to be examined every building or
structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if such is
found to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the enforcement
officer shall give to the owner of such building or structure written notice
stating the defects thereof. This notice may require the owner or person in
charge of the building or premises, within 48 hours or such reasonable time as
the circumstances require, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the enforcement officer. If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to
be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the enforcement officer.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
1.   Notice Served. Such notice shall be served by sending by certified mail to
the owner of record, according to Section 364.12[3h] of the Code of Iowa, if
the owner is found within the City limits. If the owner is not found within the
City limits, such service may be made upon the owner by registered mail or
certified mail. The designated period within which said owner or person in
charge is required to comply with the order of the enforcement officer shall
begin as of the date the owner receives such notice.
2.   Hearing. Such notice shall also advise the owner that he or she may
request a hearing before the Council on the notice by filing a written request
for hearing within the time provided in the notice.
145.05   CONDUCT OF HEARING.
If requested, the Council shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
following:
1.   Notice. The owner shall be served with written notice specifying the date,
time and place of hearing.
2.   Owner’s Rights. At the hearing, the owner may appear and show cause why
the alleged nuisance shall not be abated.
3.   Determination. The Council shall make and record findings of fact and may
issue such order as it deems appropriate.† 10
 
Notes
   † EDITOR’S NOTE: Suggested forms of notice and of a resolution and order of the
   Council for the administration of this chapter are provided in the APPENDIX to
10 this Code of Ordinances. Caution is urged in the use of this procedure. We
   recommend you review the situation with your attorney before initiating
   procedures and follow his or her recommendation carefully.
145.06   POSTING OF SIGNS.
The enforcement officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
building a notice to read: “DO NOT ENTER. UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. CITY OF __________,
IOWA.” Such notice shall remain posted until the required demolition, removal
or repairs are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without written
permission of the enforcement officer and no person shall enter the building
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the
building.
145.07   RIGHT TO DEMOLISH; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION.
In case the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this chapter and may order the enforcement
officer to proceed with the work specified in such notice. A statement of the
cost of such work shall be transmitted to the Council. As an alternative to
this action, the City may utilize the municipal infraction process to abate the
nuisance.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
145.08   COSTS.
Costs incurred under Section
145.07 shall be paid out of the City treasury. Such costs shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and levied as a special assessment against
the land on which the building or structure is located, and shall be certified
to the County Treasurer for collection in the manner provided for other taxes.
In addition, the City may take any other action deemed appropriate to recover
costs incurred.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
CHAPTER 150
BUILDING NUMBERING.
 
150.01 Definitions        150.03 Building Numbering Plan
150.02 Owner Requirements
 
150.01   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms are defined:
1.   “Owner” means the owner of the principal building.
2.   “Principal building” means the main building on any lot or subdivision
thereof.
150.02   OWNER REQUIREMENTS.
Every owner shall comply with the following numbering requirements:
1.   Obtain Building Number. The owner shall obtain the assigned number to the
principal building from the Clerk.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
2.   Display Building Number. The owner shall place or cause to be installed
and maintained on the principal building the assigned number in a conspicuous
place to the street in figures not less than two and one-half inches in height
and of a contrasting color with their background.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3d])
3.   Failure to Comply. If an owner refuses to number a building as herein
provided, or fails to do so for a period of 30 days after being notified in
writing by the City to do so, the City may proceed to place the assigned number
on the principal building and assess the costs against the property for
collection in the same manner as a property tax.
(Code of Iowa, Sec. 364.12[3h])
150.03   BUILDING NUMBERING PLAN.
Building numbers shall be assigned in accordance with the building numbering
plan on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 151
TREES.
 
151.01 Purpose                     151.07 Care of Trees
151.02 Definitions                 151.08 Tree Topping
151.03 Planting Restrictions       151.09 Pruning and Corner Clearance
151.04 Street Tree Species         151.10 Removal of Trees
151.05 Alignment                   151.11 Emergencies
151.06 Spacing for Street Corners,
Driveways, and Fire Hydrants
 
151.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the public health, safety
and general welfare of the City and enhance environmental quality by providing
regulations for the planting, maintenance and removal of shrubs, trees and
other plants within the City.
151.02   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following definitions are given.
1.   “Parking” means that part of the street, avenue or highway in the City not
covered by sidewalk lying between the lot line and the curb line or, on unpaved
streets, that part of the street, avenue or highway lying between the lot line
and that portion of the street usually traveled by vehicular traffic.
2.   “Property owner” means the contract purchaser, if there is one of record;
otherwise, the record holder of legal title in accordance with Section 364.12
of the Code of Iowa.
3.   “Public property” means any and all property located within the confines
of the City and owned by the City, or held in the name of the City by any of
the departments, commissions or agencies within the City government. This
includes parking as defined above, and all easements and public right-of-ways.
4.   “Street tree” means a tree or shrub on public property, except where
otherwise indicated. Trees located within the area known as the “parking” as
defined above are street trees.
151.03   PLANTING RESTRICTIONS.
No tree shall be planted in any street, on public property or parking, except
in accordance with this chapter.
151.04   STREET TREE SPECIES.
The following list constitutes the official Street Tree Species for the City.
The list is not all inclusive; however, it provides a broad selection of trees
that show promise as durable, attractive additions to the City landscape. No
species other than those referred to below may be planted as street trees
without the written permission of the City.
SMALL TREES MEDIUM TREES LARGE TREES
SMALL TREES    MEDIUM TREES       LARGE TREES
Crabapple      Little Leaf Linden Ginkgo
Flowering Crab Redmond Linden     White Oak
Hornbeam       Japanese Pagoda    Red Oak
               Tree
Hop Hornbeam                      Black Oak
Amur Corktree                     Swamp White Oak
Amur Maple                        Pin Oak
Red Bud                           Basswood
Serviceberry                      Sycamore
Japanese Tree                     Hackberry
Lilac
Hawthorn                          Green Ash (seedless)
                                  Maples (hard)
                                  White Ash
                                  Thornless Honey Locust
Where:
   Small    = mature height less than 25 feet (as a rule, must be trained
to tree form)
   Medium = mature height 25 to 40 feet
   Large    = mature height greater than 40 feet
 
For safety considerations, no conifers or evergreens shall be planted in the
parking.
151.05   ALIGNMENT.
All trees planted in any street or parking shall be plated a distance from the
curbs or curb lines and sidewalks in accordance with the tree species size
class listed under Section
151.04, and no trees may be planted closer to any sidewalk than the following:
small trees, two feet from the sidewalk; medium trees, three feet from the
sidewalk; large trees, four feet from the sidewalk. Notwithstanding any
provision to the contrary, no tree shall be planted where the width of the
parking is less than four feet.
151.06   SPACING FOR STREET CORNERS, DRIVEWAYS, AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
1.   No landscaping material may be planted which would cause a public danger
or nuisance.
2.   No street tree or street shrub that will grow above 30 inches in height
shall be planted on a corner lot where two streets intersect for a distance of
25 feet in any direction from the point of the intersection at the curb line.
3.   No street tree shall be planted within 15 lateral feet of an overhead
utility line; 10 feet from sanitary manholes, storm manholes or storm intakes;
10 feet from a fire hydrant; five feet from a driveway; or 25 feet from a
traffic control sign.
151.07   CARE OF TREES.
The City and utility providers have the right to plant, prune, maintain and
remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure
public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public
grounds. The City may, at any time, remove or cause or order to be removed any
tree or part thereof located on public property which is in an unsafe condition
or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, gas lines, water lines
or other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect
or other pest; or which obstructs the view of traffic. This section does not
prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners providing
that the selection and location of said trees are in accordance with this
chapter.
151.08   TREE TOPPING.
It is prohibited as a normal practice for any person or City department to top
any street tree or other tree on public property. Topping is defined as the
severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter
within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or
certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning
practices are impractical, may be exempted from this section. Tree trimming and
tree topping conducted by employees of utility companies shall be exempt from
this section.
151.09   PRUNING AND CORNER CLEARANCE.
Every property owner having any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way
within the City shall prune the branches so that such branches do not obstruct
the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection
so as to maintain a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
sidewalk, and a minimum of 14 feet above the surface of the street. Said owners
shall remove all dead, diseased and dangerous trees, or broken decayed limbs,
which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The City shall have the
right to prune any trees or shrubs on private property when the same interfere
with the proper distribution of light along the street from a street line, or
interfere with, or reduce, the visibility of any traffic control device or
sign. The pruning of trees on public property is the responsibility of the
abutting property owner. If the abutting property owner fails to trim the trees
as required in this section, the City may serve notice on the abutting property
owner requiring that such action be taken within five days. If such action is
not taken within that time, the City may perform the required action and assess
the costs against the abutting property owner for collection in the manner as a
property tax. In addition thereto, the pruning of trees on private property
referred to above shall be subject to the actions of the City referred to
above.
151.10   REMOVAL OF TREES.
Any dead, diseased or damaged tree or shrub on public property which may harbor
serious insects or disease pests, or disease injurious to other trees, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance. The City Council shall inspect or cause to be
inspected any trees or shrubs in the City suspected or reported to be dead,
diseased or damaged, and such trees and/or shrubs shall be subject to removal.
The removal cost of the tree or shrub on public property shall be the City’s
responsibility; however, the stump removal shall be the responsibility of the
abutting property owner. All stumps of trees on public property shall be
removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump does not
project above the surface of the ground. No burning or chemical means of stump
removal is permissible. In addition to the above, the City shall have the right
to cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private property within
the City, when such trees constitute a hazard to a life, property, or harbor
insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to other trees within
the City. The City shall notify the property owner of the existence of such
trees on said owner’s property. Removal shall be done by the property owner, at
the owner’s expense, within 60 days after the date a written notice is served
upon the property owner. Written notice will be deemed served if mailed by
certified mail to the property owner’s last known mailing address. In the event
of failure of the property owner to comply with the provisions of this section,
the City shall have the authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of
removal on the owner’s property tax.
151.11   EMERGENCIES.
The Mayor may declare a state of emergency in the event of storm, disaster,
tree disease, or other cause, and order the removal of all trees, shrubs,
fallen limbs or debris at the City cost and expense.
CHAPTER 155
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
155.01   ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
The 2021 Edition of the International Property Maintenance Code. published by
the International Code Council (ICC), is hereby adopted by reference as the
Property Maintenance Code of the City of Holstein, Iowa, except for such
portions as are modified herein, to regulate and govern the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; to provide the standards
for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions
essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation
and use; to authorize the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for
human occupancy and use, and the demolition of such existing structures; and to
provide for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor. A copy of
the International Property Maintenance Code is available for public reference
in City Hall. The following sections and portions of the 2021 Edition of the
International Property Maintenance Code are hereby amended, deleted, modified,
or added in said code as follows:
1.   Section 101.1 – “[Name of Jurisdiction]” shall be replaced with “the City
of Holstein, Iowa.”
2.   Section 102.3 – Shall be replaced with “Repairs, additions or alternations
to a structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with
provisions or applicable codes that have been adopted by the City and
applicable codes under federal or state law.”
3.   Section 103.1 – “department of property maintenance inspection” shall be
replaced with “Building and Zoning Department.”
4.   Section 103.5 – “as indicated in the following schedule [JURISDICTION TO
INSERT Appropriated SCHEDULE]” shall be replaced with “as adopted by
Resolution.”
5.   Section 107.1 – Add the following reference: “For violations which
constitute a nuisance defined by
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances, notices and procedures shall comply with
Chapter 50 of this Code of Ordinances.”
6.   Section 108.1 – Add the following reference: “Alternatively, unsafe
buildings may be addressed according to
Chapter 145 of this Code of Ordinances.”
7.   Section 112.4 – “liable to a fine of not less than [AMOUNT] dollars or
more than [AMOUNT] dollars.” shall be replaced with “subject to enforcement
procedures applicable to municipal infractions as set forth in
Chapter 3 of the Code of Ordinances of Holstein, Iowa.
8.   Section 302.4 – Subsection 302.4 is amended by deleting said subsection
and inserting in lieu thereof the following: “Weeds and plant growth shall be
regulated as provided in
Chapter 52 of this Code of Ordinances.”
9.   Section 304.3 – Subsection 304.3 is amended by deleting said subsection
and inserting in lieu thereof the following: “Building numbering shall be
regulated as provided in
Chapter 150 of this Code of Ordinances.”
10.   Section 304.14 – “[DATE] to [DATE]” shall be replaced with “April to
October.”
11.   Sections 308.1, 308.2 and 308.3 – Add the following references: “Property
owners and occupants shall also comply with the requirements of Chapters
51,
105,
106.”
12.   Section 506.1 – Add the following references: “Sewer connections or other
on-site private sewage disposal systems shall also comply with Chapters
96,
97, and
98 of this Code of Ordinances.”
13.   Section 602.3 – “[DATE] to [DATE]” shall be replaced with “September to
May.”
14.   Section 602.4 – “[DATE] to [DATE]” shall be replaced with “September to
May.”
15.   The title “code official” as used throughout the 2021 International
Property Maintenance Code shall refer to the “Building Inspector/Building and
Zoning Official” of the City of Holstein, Iowa, and such title shall be
considered synonymous and may be used interchangeably.
CHAPTER 160
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
 
160.01 Definitions                            160.06 Variance Procedures
160.02 Statutory Authority, Findings of Fact, 160.07  Nonconforming Uses
and Purpose
160.03 General Provisions                     160.08 Penalties for Violation
160.04 Administration                         160.09 Amendments
160.05 Floodplain Management Standards
 
160.01   DEFINITIONS.
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this ordinance it’s most reasonable application.
1.   Appurtenant structure – A structure which is on the same parcel of the
property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.
2.   Base flood – The flood having one (1) percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also commonly referred to as the “100-year flood”).
3.   Base Flood Elevation (BFE) – The elevation floodwaters would reach at a
particular site during the occurrence of a base flood event.
4.   Basement – Any enclosed area of a building which has its floor or lowest
level below ground level (subgrade) on all sides. Also see “lowest floor.”
5.   Development – Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials. “Development” does not include “minor projects” or
“routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities” as defined in this
section. It also does not include gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling or grading.
6.   Enclosed area below lowest floor – The floor of the lowest enclosed area
in a building when all the following criteria are met:
   A.   The enclosed area is designed to flood to equalize hydrostatic pressure
during flood events with walls or openings that satisfy the provisions of
160.05(1)(D)(1) of this ordinance, and
   B.   The enclosed area is unfinished (not carpeted, drywalled, etc.) and
used solely for low damage potential uses such as building access, parking or
storage, and
   C.   Machinery and service facilities (e.g., hot water heater, furnace,
electrical service) contained in the enclosed area are located at least one (1)
foot above the base flood elevation, and
   D.   The enclosed area is not a “basement” as defined in this section.
7.   Existing construction - Any structure for which the “start of
construction” commenced before the effective date of the first floodplain
management regulations adopted by the community.
8.   Existing factory-built home park or subdivision - A factory-built home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community.
9.   Expansion of existing factory-built home park or subdivision – The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
10.   Factory-built home – Any structure, designed for residential use which is
wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed or assembled in
manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation, on a
building site. For purpose of this ordinance factory-built homes include mobile
homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes; and also include “recreational
vehicles” which are placed on a site for greater than 180 consecutive days and
not fully licensed for and ready for highway use.
11.   Factory-built home park or subdivision – A parcel or contiguous parcels
of land divided into two or more factory-built home lots for sale or lease.
12.   Five hundred (500) year flood – A flood, the magnitude of which has a
two-tenths (0.2) percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year
or which, on average, will be equaled or exceeded at least once every five
hundred (500) years.
13.   Flood – A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or
rivers or from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
14.   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) – The official map prepared as part of
(but published separately from) the Flood Insurance Study which delineates both
the flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
15.   Flood Insurance Study (FIS) – A report published by FEMA for a community
issued along with the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map(s). The study
contains such background data as the base flood discharge and water surface
elevations that were used to prepare the FIRM.
16.   Floodplain – Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water as a
result of a flood.
17.   Floodplain management – An overall program of corrective and preventive
measures for reducing flood damages and promoting the wise use of floodplains,
including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works,
flood proofing and floodplain management regulations.
18.   Floodproofing – Any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures, including utility and
sanitary facilities, which will reduce or eliminate flood damage to such
structures.
19.   Floodway – The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge flood waters or flood flows so that confinement of flood flows to the
floodway area will not cumulatively increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood by more than one (1) foot.
20.   Floodway fringe – Those portions of the special flood hazard area outside
the floodway.
21.   Highest adjacent grade – The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
22.   Historic structure – Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
maintained by the Department of Interior, or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing of
the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by
either (i) an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior or (ii) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
23.   Lowest floor – The floor of the lowest enclosed area in a building
including a basement except when the criteria listed in the definition of
enclosed area below lowest floor are met.
24.   Maximum damage potential development – Hospitals and like institutions;
buildings or building complexes containing documents, data, or instruments of
great public value; buildings or building complexes containing materials
dangerous to the public or fuel storage facilities; power installations needed
in emergency or other buildings or building complexes similar in nature or use.
25.   Minor projects – Small development activities (except for filling,
grading and excavating) valued at less than $500.
26.   New construction – (new buildings, factory-built home parks) – Those
structures or development for which the start of construction commenced on or
after the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted
by the community.
27.   New factory-built home park or subdivision – A factory-built home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the factory-built homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the effective date of the first floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community.
28.   Recreational vehicle – A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
29.   Routine maintenance of existing buildings and facilities – Repairs
necessary to keep a structure in a safe and habitable condition that do not
trigger a building permit, provided they are not associated with a general
improvement of the structure or repair of a damaged structure. Such repairs
include:
   A.   Normal maintenance of structures such as re-roofing, replacing roofing
tiles and replacing siding;
   B.   Exterior and interior painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets,
counter tops and similar finish work;
   C.   Basement sealing;
   D.   Repairing or replacing damaged or broken window panes;
   E.   Repairing plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating or air
conditioning systems and repairing wells or septic systems.
30.   Special flood hazard area (SFHA) – The land within a community subject to
the “base flood.” This land is identified on the community’s Flood Insurance
Rate Map as Zone A, A1-30, AE, AH, AO, AR, and/or A99.
31.   Start of construction – Includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of pile, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a factory-built home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
32.   Structure – Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories, sheds, cabins,
factory-built homes, storage tanks, grain storage facilities and/or other
similar uses.
33.   Substantial damage – Damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition
would equal or exceed fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. Volunteer labor and donated materials shall be
included in the estimated cost of repair.
34.   Substantial improvement – Any improvement to a structure which satisfies
either of the following criteria:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure taking place
during a 10-year period, the cumulative cost of which, equals or exceeds fifty
(50) percent of the market value of the structure either (i) before the “start
of construction” of the first improvement of the structure, or (ii) if the
structure has been “substantially damaged” and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
   The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of State or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions. The term also does not include any alteration of an “historic
structure,” provided the alteration will not preclude the structure’s
designation as an “historic structure.”
   B.   Any addition which increases the original floor area of a building by
25 percent or more. All additions constructed after the effective date of the
first floodplain management regulations adopted by the community shall be added
to any proposed addition in determining whether the total increase in original
floor space would exceed 25 percent.
35.   Variance – A grant of relief by a community from the terms of the
floodplain management regulations.
36.   Violation – The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
160.02   STATUTORY AUTHORITY, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.
1.   The Legislature of the State of Iowa has in Chapter 364, Code of Iowa, as
amended, delegated the power to cities to exercise any power and perform any
function it deems appropriate to protect and preserve the rights, privileges,
and property of the City or of its residents, and to preserve and improve the
peace, safety, health, welfare, comfort and convenience of its residents.
2.   Findings of Fact.
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City of Holstein are subject to periodic
inundation which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and
   B.   governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare of the community.
   C.   These flood losses, hazards, and related adverse effects are caused by:
(i) the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to flood damages
which create hazardous conditions as a result of being inadequately elevated or
otherwise protected from flooding and (ii) the cumulative effect of
obstructions on the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities.
   D.   This ordinance relies upon engineering methodology for analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Department of
Natural Resources.
3.   Statement of Purpose. It is the purpose of this ordinance to protect and
preserve the rights, privileges and property of the City of Holstein and its
residents and to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health, welfare, and
comfort and convenience of its residents by minimizing those flood losses
described in Subsection 2(A) of this ordinance with provisions designed to:
   A.   Reserve sufficient floodplain area for the conveyance of flood flows so
that flood heights and velocities will not be increased substantially.
   B.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or which cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities.
   C.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction or substantial improvement.
   D.   Protect individuals from buying lands which may not be suited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
   E.   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance
Program.
160.03   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
1.   Lands to Which Ordinance Apply. The provisions of this ordinance shall
apply to all lands and development which have significant flood hazards. The
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for Ida County and Incorporated Areas, City of
Holstein, Panels 19093C0048C, 19093C0106C, 19093C0107C, dated 6-01-2022, which
were prepared as part of the Ida County Flood Insurance Study, shall be used to
identify such flood hazard areas and all areas shown thereon to be within the
boundaries of the base flood shall be considered as having significant flood
hazards. The Flood Insurance Study for the county of Ida County is hereby
adopted by reference and is made a part of this ordinance for the purpose of
administering floodplain management regulations.
2.   Rules for Interpretation of Flood Hazard Boundaries. The boundaries of the
special flood hazard areas shall be determined by scaling distances on the
official Flood Insurance Rate Map. When an interpretation is needed as to the
exact location of a boundary, the City Administrator or their designee shall
make the necessary interpretation. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and
decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an error in any requirement,
decision, or determination made by the City Administrator or their designee in
the enforcement or administration of this ordinance.
3.   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, and no structure
shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered, without full
compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other applicable regulations
which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this ordinance.
4.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this ordinance
to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this ordinance imposes greater restrictions, the
provision of this ordinance shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency
only.
5.   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of
this ordinance shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by State statutes.
6.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability. The standards required by this
ordinance are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This ordinance
does not imply that areas outside the designated special flood hazard areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This ordinance shall not create
liability on the part of the City of Holstein or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this ordinance or
any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
7.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
ordinance is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this ordinance shall not be affected thereby.
160.04   ADMINISTRATION.
1.   Appointment, Duties and Responsibilities of Local Official.
   A.   The City Administrator of their designee is hereby appointed to
implement and administer the provisions of this ordinance and will herein be
referred to as the Administrator.
   B.   Duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to the following:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permit applications to assure
that the provisions of this ordinance will be satisfied.
      (2)   Review floodplain development applications to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from federal, State and local governmental
agencies including approval when required from the Department of Natural
Resources for floodplain construction.
      (3)   Record and maintain a record of (i) the elevation (in relation to
North American Vertical Datum 1988) of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new or substantially improved structures or (ii) the elevation to which new
or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed.
      (4)   Notify adjacent communities/counties and the Department of Natural
Resources prior to any proposed alteration or relocation of a watercourse and
submit evidence of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
      (5)   Keep a record of all permits, appeals and such other transactions
and correspondence pertaining to the administration of this ordinance.
      (6)   Submit to the Federal Insurance Administrator an annual report
concerning the community’s participation, utilizing the annual report form
supplied by the Federal Insurance Administrator.
      (7)   Notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of any annexations or
modifications to the community’s boundaries.
      (8)   Review subdivision proposals to ensure such proposals are
consistent with the purpose of this ordinance and advise the Board of
Adjustment of potential conflict.
      (9)   Maintain the accuracy of the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Maps
when;
         a.   Development placed within the floodway results in any of the
following:
            i.   An increase in the base flood elevations, or
            ii.   Alteration to the floodway boundary
         b.   Development placed in Zones A, AE, AH, and A1-30 that does not
include a designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in
the base flood elevation; or
         c.   Development relocates or alters the channel.
      Within 6 months of the completion of the development, the applicant shall
submit to FEMA all scientific and technical data necessary for a Letter of Map
Revision.
      (10)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with the standards
of this ordinance.
      (11)   Forward all requests for variances to the Board of Adjustment for
consideration. Ensure all requests include the information ordinarily submitted
with applications as well as any additional information deemed necessary to the
Board of Adjustment.
2.   Floodplain Development Permit.
   A.   Permit Required. A Floodplain Development Permit issued by the
Administrator shall be secured prior to any floodplain development (any man-
made change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not limited
to buildings or other structures, mining, filling, grading, paving, storage of
materials and equipment, excavation or drilling operations), including the
placement of factory-built homes.
   B.   Application for Permit. Application shall be made on forms furnished by
the Administrator and shall include the following:
      (1)   Description of the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is to be made.
      (2)   Description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done
(e.g., lot, block, track, street address or similar description) that will
readily identify and locate the work to be done.
      (3)   Location and dimensions of all structures and additions.
      (4)   Indication of the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
      (5)   Elevation of the base flood.
      (6)   Elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988 of the
lowest floor (including basement) of structures or of the level to which a
structure is to be flood proofed.
      (7)   For structures being improved or rebuilt, the estimated cost of
improvements and market value of the structure prior to the improvements.
      (8)   Such other information as the Administrator deems reasonably
necessary (e.g., drawings or a site plan) for the purpose of this ordinance.
   C.   Action on Permit Application. The Administrator shall, within a
reasonable time, make a determination as to whether the proposed floodplain
development meets the applicable standards of this ordinance and shall approve
or disapprove the application. For disapprovals, the applicant shall be
informed, in writing, of the specific reasons therefore. The Administrator
shall not issue permits for variances except as directed by the Board of
Adjustment.
   D.   Construction and Use to Be as Provided in Application and Plans.
Floodplain Development Permits based on the basis of approved plans and
applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
such approved plans and applications and no other use, arrangement or
construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this ordinance. The applicant shall
be required to submit certification by a professional engineer or land
surveyor, as appropriate, registered in the State of Iowa, that the finished
fill, structure floor elevations, flood proofing, or other flood protection
measures were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance,
prior to the use or occupancy of any structure.
160.05   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT STANDARDS.
1.   General Floodplain Standards. All development must be consistent with the
need to minimize flood damage and meet the following applicable performance
standards. Where base flood elevations have not been provided in the Flood
Insurance Study, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to
determine (i) whether the land involved is either wholly or partly within the
floodway or floodway fringe and (ii) the base flood elevation. The applicant
will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources with
sufficient technical information to make such determination.
Review by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources is not required for the
proposed construction of new or replacement bridges or culverts where (i) the
bridge or culvert is located on a stream that drains less than two (2) square
miles, and (ii) the bridge or culvert is not associated with a channel
modification that constitutes a channel change as specified in 567-71.2()2),
Iowa Administrative Code.
   A.   All development within the special flood hazard areas shall:
      (1)   Be designed and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement.
      (2)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (3)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant
to flood damage.
   B.   Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a minimum
of one (1) foot above the base flood elevation. Construction shall be upon
compacted fill which shall, at all points, be no lower than 1.0 ft. above the
base flood elevation and extend at such elevation at least 18 feet beyond the
limits of any structure erected thereon. Alternate methods of elevating (such
as piers or extended foundations) may be allowed subject to favorable
consideration by the City Council, where existing topography, street grades, or
other factors preclude elevating by fill. In such cases, the methods used must
be adequate to support the structure as well as withstand the various forces
and hazards associated with flooding.
   All new residential structures located in areas that would become isolated
due to flooding of surrounding ground shall be provided with a means of access
that will be passable by wheeled vehicles during the base flood. However, this
criterion shall not apply where the Administrator determines there is
sufficient flood warning time for the protection of life and property. When
estimating flood warning time, consideration shall be given to the criteria
listed in 567-75.2(3), Iowa Administrative Code.
   C.   Non-Residential Structures. All new or substantially improved non-
residential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood elevation, or together
with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be flood proofed to such a level.
When flood proofing is utilized, a professional engineer registered in the
State of Iowa shall certify that the flood proofing methods used are adequate
to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces
and other factors associated with the base flood; and that the structure, below
the base flood elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water. A record of the certification indicating the specific
elevation (in relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Administrator.
   D.   All New and Substantially Improved Structures.
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the “lowest floor” (not including
basements) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings, with positioning on at least two
(2) walls, having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      Such areas shall be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access
and low damage potential storage.
      (2)   New and substantially improved structures must be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
      (3)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
electric meter, electrical service panel box, hot water heater, heating, air
conditioning, ventilation equipment (including ductwork), and other similar
machinery and equipment elevated (or in the case on non-residential structures,
optionally flood proofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood
elevation.
      (4)   New and substantially improved structures shall be constructed with
plumbing, gas lines, water/gas meters and other similar service utilities,
either elevated (or in the case of non-residential structures, optionally flood
proofed to) a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood elevation or
designed to be watertight and withstand inundation to such a level.
   E.   Factory-Built Homes.
      (1)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the structure
is a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   All new and substantially improved factory-built homes, including
those placed in existing factory-built home parks or subdivisions shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors. Anchorage systems may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors as required by the State
Building Code.
   F.   Utility and Sanitary Systems.
      (1)   On-site waste disposal and water supply systems shall be located or
designed to avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system
during flooding.
      (2)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system as well
as the discharge of effluent into flood waters. Wastewater treatment facilities
(other than on-site systems) shall be provided with a level of flood protection
equal to or greater than one (1) foot above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   New or replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. Water
supply treatment facilities (other than on-site systems) shall be provided with
a level of protection equal to or greater than one (1) foot above the base
flood elevation.
      (4)   Utilities such as gas or electrical systems shall be located and
constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage to the system and the risk
associated with such flood damaged or impaired systems.
   G.   Storage of Materials and Equipment. Storage of materials and equipment
that are flammable, explosive or injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited unless elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the base flood
elevation. Other material and equipment must either be similarly elevated or
(i) not be subject to major flood damage and be anchored to prevent movement
due to flood waters or (ii) be readily removable from the area within the time
available after flood warning.
   H.   Flood Control Structural Works. Flood control structural works such as
levees, flood walls, etc. shall provide, at a minimum, protection from the base
flood with a minimum of 3 ft. of design freeboard and shall provide for
adequate interior drainage. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources
shall approve structural flood control works.
   I.   Watercourse Alterations and Relocations. Watercourse alterations or
relocations must be designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity within the
altered or relocated portion. In addition, the Department of Natural Resources
must approve such alterations or relocations.
   J.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions (including factory-built home parks and
subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damages and
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
Development associated with subdivision proposals (including the installation
of public utilities) shall meet the applicable performance standards of this
ordinance. Subdivision proposals intended for residential use shall provide all
lots with a means of access which will be passable by wheeled vehicles during
the base flood. Proposals for subdivisions greater than five (5) acres or fifty
(50) lots (whichever is less) shall include base flood elevation data for those
areas located within the special flood hazard area.
   K.   Accessory Structures to Residential Uses.
      (1)   Detached garages, sheds, and similar structures that are incidental
to a residential use are exempt from the base flood elevation requirements
where the following criteria are satisfied.
         a.   The structure shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential. Its size shall not exceed 600 sq. ft. in size. Those portions of the
structure located less than 1 foot above the base flood elevation must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials.
         b.   The structure shall be used solely for low flood damage potential
purposes such as vehicle parking and limited storage. The structure shall not
be used for human habitation.
         c.   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         d.   The structure shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
         e.   The structure’s service facilities such as electrical and heating
equipment shall be elevated or flood proofed to at least one foot above the
base flood elevation.
         f.   The structure’s walls shall include openings that satisfy the
provisions of 160.05(1)(D)(1) of this ordinance.
      (2)   Exemption from the base flood elevation requirements for such a
structure may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance coverage of
the structure and its contents.
   L.   Recreational Vehicles.
      (1)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the requirements of (160.05
(1)(E of this ordinance regarding anchoring and elevation of factory-built
homes when the following criteria are satisfied.
         a.   The recreational vehicle shall be located on the site for less
than 180 consecutive days, and,
         b.   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system and is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles that are located on the site for more than
180 consecutive days or are not ready for highway use must satisfy requirements
of (160.05(1)(E) of this ordinance regarding anchoring and elevation of
factory-built homes.
   M.   Pipeline River and Stream Crossings. Pipeline river and stream
crossings shall be buried in the streambed and banks, or otherwise sufficiently
protected to prevent rupture due to channel degradation and meandering.
   N.   Maximum Damage Potential Development. All new or substantially improved
maximum damage potential development shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated a minimum of one (1) foot above the elevation of the 500-
year flood, or together with attendant utility and sanitary systems, be flood
proofed to such a level. When flood proofing is utilized, a professional
engineer registered in the State of Iowa shall certify that the flood proofing
methods used are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities,
impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with the 0.2% annual
chance flood; and that the structure, below the 0.2% annual chance flood
elevation is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water. A record of the certification indicating the specific elevation (in
relation to North American Vertical Datum 1988) to which any structures are
flood proofed shall be maintained by the Administrator. Where 0.2% chance flood
elevation data has not been provided in the Flood Insurance Study, the Iowa
Department of Natural Resources shall be contacted to compute such data. The
applicant will be responsible for providing the Department of Natural Resources
with sufficient technical information to make such determinations.
160.06   VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
1.   The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon request in specific cases such
variances from the terms of this ordinance that will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this ordinance will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances
granted must meet the following applicable standards.
   A.   Variances shall only be granted upon: (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause, (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and (iii) a determination that
the granting of the variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with
existing local codes or ordinances.
   B.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood would result. Consideration of
the effects of any development on flood levels shall be based upon the
assumption that an equal degree of development would be allowed for similarly
situated lands.
   C.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   D.   In cases where the variance involves a lower level of flood protection
for structures than what is ordinarily required by this ordinance, the
applicant shall be notified in writing over the signature of the Administrator
that: (i) the issuance of a variance will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and
(ii) such construction increases risks to life and property.
   E.   All variances granted shall have the concurrence or approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
2.   Factors upon Which the Decision of the Board of Adjustment Shall Be Based.
In passing upon applications for variances, the Council shall consider all
relevant factors specified in other sections of this ordinance and:
   A.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
   B.   The danger that materials may be swept on to other land or downstream
to the injury of others.
   C.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions.
   D.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
   E.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
City.
   F.   The requirements of the facility for a floodplain location.
   G.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding for
the proposed use.
   H.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
   I.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area.
   J.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles.
   K.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood water expected at the site.
   L.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities (sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems), facilities, streets and bridges.
   M.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purpose of this ordinance.
3.   Conditions Attached to Variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose of this ordinance. Such
conditions may include, but not necessarily be limited to:
   A.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
   B.   Limitation of periods of use and operation.
   C.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed restrictions.
   D.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes, levees,
and other protective measures, provided such are approved by the Department of
Natural Resources and are deemed the only practical alternative to achieving
the purpose of this ordinance.
   E.   Floodproofing measures shall be designed consistent with the flood
protection elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated with
the regulatory flood. The Council shall require that the applicant submit a
plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer that the
floodproofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area.
160.07   NONCONFORMING USES.
1.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this ordinance, but which is not in conformity with
the provisions of this ordinance, may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
   A.   If such use is discontinued for six (6) consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this ordinance.
   B.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   C.   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than fifty
(50) percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred,
unless it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
This limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with
existing State or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or
regulations or the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National
Register of Historic Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude
its continued designation.
2.   Except as provided in 160.07(1)(B), any use which has been permitted as a
variance shall be considered a conforming use.
160.08   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
Violations of the provisions of this ordinance or failure to comply with any of
the requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this
ordinance or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than $750.00 (seven hundred fifty dollars). Nothing
herein contained prevent the City of Holstein from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy violation.
160.09   AMENDMENTS.
The regulations and standards set forth in this ordinance may from time to time
be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed. No amendment, supplement,
change, or modification shall be undertaken without prior approval of the
Department of Natural Resources.
(Ch. 160 – Ord. 253 – Jul. 23 Supp.)
 
CHAPTER 165
ZONING REGULATIONS.
 
EDITOR’S NOTE
The Zoning Regulations adopted February 4, 2013, by Ordinance No. 228, and
amendments thereto, contained in a separate volume, are a part of this Code
of Ordinances and are in full force and effect. The following ordinances have
been adopted amending the Zoning Regulations of the City.
ORDINANCE ADOPTED      SUBJECT
231       June 2, 2014 Designated Property as M-1 Light Industrial
 
CHAPTER 166
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
166.01 Purpose                          166.28 Release or Reduction of
                                        Performance Bond
166.02 Policy                           166.29 Maintenance of Improvements
166.03 Definitions                      166.30 Deferral or Waiver of Required
                                        Improvements
166.04 Application and Jurisdiction     166.31 Issuance of Certificates of
                                        Occupancy
166.05 Interpretation                   166.32 Improvements Required
166.06 Action Under Prior Provisions    166.33 Design Standards Are Minimum
166.07 Procedure                        166.34 Conformance to Applicable Rules
                                        and Regulations
166.08 Pre-submission Consultations     166.35 Subdivision Name
166.09 Requirements of Preliminary Plat 166.36 Monumentation
166.10 Submission of Preliminary Plat   166.37 Character of the Land
166.11 Referral of Preliminary Plat     166.38 Lots
166.12 Review of Preliminary Plat       166.39 Blocks
166.13 Action by the Commission         166.40 Streets — General Requirements
166.14 Action by Council                166.41 Streets — Design Standards
166.15 Effective Period of Tentative    166.42 Storm Sewers and Drainage
Approval
166.16 Completion of Improvements       166.43 Water Facilities
166.17 Performance Bond                 166.44 Sewage Facilities
166.18 Final Plat                       166.45 Sidewalks
166.19 Requirements of the Final Plat   166.46 Utilities
166.20 Submission of Final Plat         166.47 Preservation of Natural Features
                                        and Amenities
166.21 Referral of Final Plat           166.48 Nonresidential Subdivisions
166.22 Action by the Commission         166.49 School and Park Reservations
166.23 Action by the Council            166.50 Improvements within
                                        Unincorporated Jurisdiction
166.24 Resubdivision of Land            166.51 Variations and Exceptions
166.25 Completion of Improvements       166.52 Changes and Amendments
166.26 Performance Bond                 166.53 Enforcement, Violations, and
                                        Penalties
166.27 Inspection of Improvements
 
166.01   PURPOSE.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards for the design,
development and improvement of all new subdivisions and resubdivisions so that
existing developments will be protected and so that adequate provisions are
made for public services and to promote the health, safety and general welfare
in the City.
166.02   POLICY.
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to consider the subdivision
of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided land as subject to the
control of the City to provide for the orderly, efficient and economical
development of the City. And further:
1.   Character of Land. Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that
it can be used safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril
from fire, flood or other menace.
2.   Regulations to Supplement and Facilitate. It is intended that these
subdivision regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of
provisions and standards, ordinances or regulations of the City.
166.03   DEFINITIONS.
For use in this chapter, the following terms or words are defined.
1.   “Alley” means a public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve
as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other street.
2.   “Applicant” means the owner of land to be subdivided or said owner’s
representative.
3.   “Block” means a tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of
streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad right-of-ways, shorelines of
waterways or corporate boundaries.
4.   “Bond” means any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory
to the Council.
5.   “Building” means any structure built for support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind, and includes any
structure.
6.   “Central water system” means a private water system established by the
developer to serve a new subdivision or resubdivision. It includes water
treatment and distribution facilities.
7.   “Central sewage system” means a private sewer system including collection
and treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new
subdivision or resubdivision.
8.   “City Engineer” means the person designated by the Council to furnish
engineering assistance for the administration of these regulations.
9.   “Commission” means the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City.
10.   “Cul-de-sac” means a municipal service street with only one outlet and
having an appropriate terminal for safe and convenient reversal of traffic
movement.
11.   “Developer” means the owner of land proposed to be subdivided (or said
owner’s representative).
12.   “Easement” means an authorization by a property owner for the use by
another or by a public utility or the public, and for a specified purpose, of
any designated part of said person’s property.
13.   “Frontage” means that portion of a lot abutting on a street or way and
complying with the setback and front yard requirements as they may exist,
however, the side of a corner lot is not considered as the frontage.
14.   “Individual sewage disposal system” means a septic tank, seepage tile
sewage disposal system or any other approved sewage treatment device.
15.   “Local board of health” means a County, City or district Board of Health.
16.   “Lot” means a portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or for
building development.
17.   “Municipal arterial streets” means those streets which connect principal
traffic generating areas or connect such areas with other street systems.
18.   “Municipal collector streets” mean those streets that collect traffic
from municipal service streets and connect to other street systems.
19.   “Municipal service streets” means those streets that primarily provide
access to property.
20.   “Owner” means any person having legal title to or sufficient proprietary
interest in the land to be sought to be subdivided under these regulations.
21.   “Plat” means a map, drawing or chart on which the developer’s plan of the
subdivision of land is presented and which the developer submits for approval
and intends, in final form, to record.
22.   “Public improvement” means any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway,
sidewalk, pedestrian crosswalk, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot
improvement or other facility for which the City may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which City responsibility is established.
23.   “Right-of-way” means a strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied
by a street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main or surface drainage way,
shade trees or for another special use. The usage of the term “right-of-way”
for land platting purposes means that every right-of-way hereafter established
and shown on a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or
parcels adjoining such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or
areas of such lots or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks,
water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains or any other use involving
maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of
the plat on which such right-of-way is established.
24.   “Roadway” means that portion of the street available for vehicular
traffic and where curbs are laid, the portion from back to back of curbs.
25.   “Street” means and includes any public way, highway, street, avenue,
boulevard, parkway or other public thoroughfare, and each of such words
includes every other of them, and also includes the entire width between
property lines.
26.   “Subdivider” means the person undertaking the subdivision or
resubdivision of a tract or parcel of land.
27.   “Subdivision” means the division of land into three or more lots or other
division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or building development. The term, when appropriate to the context,
relates to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided, or the
resubdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots or other
divisions of land, or, if a new street is involved, any division of land.
28.   “Surveyor” means a land surveyor licensed and registered under the
provisions of Chapter 542B of the Code of Iowa.
166.04   APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION.
Every owner (or agent) of any tract or parcel of land lying within the City or,
pursuant to Section 354.9 of the Code of Iowa, within two miles of the
corporate limits of the City who has subdivided or shall hereafter subdivide
the same into three or more parts for the purpose of laying out an addition,
subdivision, building lot or lots, or acreage lots, shall cause plats of such
area to be made in the form, and containing the information, as hereinafter set
forth before selling any lots therein contained or placing the plat on record.
166.05   INTERPRETATION.
In their interpretation or application, the provisions of these regulations
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety and general welfare. Specifically:
1.   Relationship to Other Public Provisions. These regulations are not
intended to interfere with or to abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or
regulation, statute or other provision of law. Where any provision of these
regulations imposes a restriction different from those imposed by any other
provision of these regulations or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or
other provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose
higher standards shall control.
2.   Relationship to Private Provisions. These regulations are not intended to
abrogate any easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction,
provided that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or
impose higher standards or regulations than such easement, covenant or other
private agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall
govern.
166.06   ACTION UNDER PRIOR PROVISIONS.
These regulations do not abate any action now pending under or by virtue of
prior existing subdivision regulations. Nor do they discontinue, abate, modify
or alter any penalty accrued or about to accrue or affect the liability of any
person or waive any right of the City under any section or provision existing
at the time of adoption of these regulations. Nor do they vacate or annul any
rights obtained by any person by lawful action of the City except as expressed
in these regulations.
166.07   PROCEDURE.
Before seeking tentative approval of a proposed subdivision by the Council, the
subdivider shall submit a preliminary plat in accordance with the requirements
of Section
166.09 and install the required improvements or provide a performance bond.
166.08   PRE-SUBMISSION CONSULTATIONS.
Prior to the submission of the preliminary plat of any subdivision, the
subdivider is encouraged to meet with the City Engineer and other City
officials responsible for the administration of these regulations to be advised
of the procedural steps, design standards, required improvements and platting
requirements. During such meetings, no commitments shall be made which will be
binding upon the City.
166.09   REQUIREMENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
Every proposed subdivision shall be submitted for tentative approval in the
form of a preliminary plat prior to the submission of a final record plat. The
purpose of the preliminary plat and accompanying material is to provide all
facts needed for the Council to determine whether the proposed subdivision is
satisfactory from the standpoint of the public interest. The following graphic
and descriptive material is required to be provided on the preliminary plat and
on the accompanying material.
1.   Contents of Preliminary Plat. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a
registered land surveyor at a convenient scale of not more than one inch equals
100 feet, may be prepared in pen or pencil, and the sheets shall be numbered in
sequence if more than one sheet is used. The following information shall be
shown on the preliminary plat:
   A.   Title, scale, north point and date.
   B.   Subdivision boundary lines, showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to section, townships and range lines or corners. Exterior
boundaries are to be indicated with a solid heavy line.
   C.   Present and proposed streets, alleys and sidewalks, with their rights-
of-way, in or adjoining the subdivision, including dedicated widths,
approximate gradients, types and widths of surfaces, curbs, and planting
strips, and location of street lights, fire hydrants and street signs.
   D.   Proposed layout of blocks and lots, showing dimensions, radii, chords
and the square foot areas of lots that are not rectangular, and the lot and
block numbers in numerical order.
   E.   Building setback or front yard lines.
   F.   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds, or other public, semi-public or community purposes.
   G.   Present and proposed easements, showing locations, widths, purposes and
limitations.
   H.   Location and names of adjoining parcels of unsubdivided and subdivided
land.
   I.   If the subdivision could be affected by flooding, the boundaries of the
highest known flood of record affecting the subdivision and the source of
information.
   J.   If the proposed subdivision borders on a lake or stream, the distances
and bearings of meander lines established not less than 20 feet back from the
mean high water mark of the lake or stream.
   K.   Existing blocks, lots and buildings.
   L.   Present and proposed utility systems, including sanitary and storm
sewers, other drainage facilities, water lines, gas mains, electric utilities,
and other facilities, with the size, capacity, invert elevation and location of
each. If the subdivision is within one mile of public sewer or water or both,
notation shall be made of the direction and distance to such facilities.
   M.   Proposed name of the subdivision.
   N.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, builder and surveyor who
prepared the preliminary plat, and the surveyor who will prepare the final
plat.
   O.   Official legal description of the property being platted.
   P.   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet if the general
slope of the site is less than ten percent and at vertical intervals of not
more than five feet if the general slope is ten percent or greater.
   Q.   Existing and proposed zoning of the proposed subdivision and adjoining
property.
   R.   Location of all proposed monuments.
2.   Information to Be Provided in Accompanying Material. The following
information shall accompany a plat when filing:
   A.   A complete listing of all existing covenants which apply to the land to
be subdivided, and a complete listing of all covenants which are proposed by
the developer to apply to the subdivided land.
   B.   A table of the following information:
      (1)   Total acreage of the subdivision.
      (2)   Total number of lots.
      (3)   Minimum, average and maximum lot area.
      (4)   Acreage of public lands to be dedicated or reserved other than
streets.
   C.   If any portion of the subdivision is to have access on a State or
County jurisdictional street, a written and signed statement acknowledging and
permitting the access by the duly authorized official of the appropriate
jurisdiction.
   D.   Specifications and engineering construction drawings including
profiles, cross-sections and details of all public improvements. Elevations
shall be referred to mean sea level as exhibited in standard U.S. Geological
Survey Maps. Specifications and references shall meet those required by the
City’s construction and specifications standards, including a site grading plan
for the entire subdivision.
166.10   SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat in accordance with the
provisions of Section
166.09 and shall file with the Clerk an application in triplicate for the
tentative approval of the plat. The application shall:
1.   Forms and Fees. Be made on forms available from the Clerk together with a
fee of $50.00 per lot.
2.   Number of Plats. Be accompanied by a minimum of 10 copies of the
preliminary plat.
3.   Time of Submission. Be presented to the Clerk at least four weeks prior to
the meeting of the Commission.
166.11   REFERRAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The Clerk shall immediately refer two copies of the preliminary plat to the
City Engineer and seven copies to the Commission. In the case of a subdivision
outside the corporate limits of the City, the Clerk shall refer one copy of the
preliminary plat to the County Board of Supervisors.
166.12   REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
The preliminary plat shall be reviewed by the Commission to determine its
conformity with these regulations and all other ordinances and regulations in
force affecting subdivisions. Copies of the preliminary plat may be transmitted
to other City or school officials, as the Commission deems necessary, for their
recommendations concerning matters within their jurisdiction. Their
recommendations, along with those of the City Engineer, shall be transmitted to
the Commission within three weeks after the date the plat is filed. The
Commission may confer with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the
kind and extent of such improvements to be made.
166.13   ACTION BY THE COMMISSION.
The Commission, as soon as possible, but within 30 days after receiving the
preliminary plat, shall pass upon the preliminary plat as originally submitted
or modified. If the Commission does not act within 30 days, the preliminary
plat shall be deemed to be approved; provided, however, the subdivider may
agree to an extension of the time period, not to exceed an additional 60 days.
It shall then set forth its recommendations in writing, whether of approval,
modification or disapproval.
1.   Reasons for Changes or Disapproval. In the event that substantial changes
or modifications are made by the Commission or the Commission recommends
disapproval of the plat, it shall give its reasons therefor and it may request
and cause the revised preliminary plat to be resubmitted in the same manner as
the original plat.
2.   Tentative Approval. If the Commission recommends approval, it shall
express its approval as “Tentative Approval” and state the conditions of such
approval, if any.
3.   Documenting Approval. The action of the Commission shall be documented on
seven copies of the preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any conditions
determined. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider, one copy shall be
retained by the Commission, and five copies shall be referred to the Council.
166.14   ACTION BY COUNCIL.
Within 30 days of its receipt of the preliminary plat, the Council shall, by
resolution, tentatively approve or disapprove the plat. If the preliminary plat
is disapproved, objections to it shall be returned to the Commission for
further review and the Clerk shall notify the subdivider of such action. If
approved, the Clerk shall affix his or her signature to five copies of the
preliminary plat with the notation of the date the preliminary plat received
the Council’s tentative approval. One copy shall be returned to the Commission
and three copies shall be returned to the subdivider. The “Tentative Approval”
by the Council shall not constitute final acceptance of the addition or
subdivision by the City but an authorization to proceed with preparation of the
final plat.
166.15   EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF TENTATIVE APPROVAL.
The tentative approval of a preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of
one year, at the end of which time final approval must have been obtained. Any
plat not receiving final approval within this period of time shall be void, and
the subdivider shall be required to resubmit a new plat for tentative approval
subject to all new zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations.
166.16   COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
Before the Council will approve the final plat, all of the required
improvements shall be constructed and accepted by formal resolution of the
Council. Before passage of said resolution of acceptance, the City Engineer
shall report that said improvements meet all City specifications and ordinances
or other City requirements, and the agreements between subdivider and the City.
166.17   PERFORMANCE BOND.
The completion requirement for improvements may be waived in whole or in part
if the subdivider will post a performance bond with the Council guaranteeing
that improvements not completed will be constructed within a period of one year
from final acceptance of the plat. However, final acceptance of the plat will
not constitute final acceptance by the City of any improvements to be
constructed. Improvements will be accepted only after their construction has
been completed. Such performance bond shall be satisfactory to the City
Attorney as to form, sufficiency and manner of execution. Upon recommendation
of the Commission, the Council may extend the completion date set forth in the
bond for a maximum period of one additional year.
166.18   FINAL PLAT.
The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved,
and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop
at the time, provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements
of these regulations.
166.19   REQUIREMENTS OF THE FINAL PLAT.
The following graphic and descriptive material is required to be provided on
the final plat and in the accompanying material.
1.   Contents of the Final Plat. Every plat of a subdivision offered for record
shall conform to all of the following provisions where applicable:
   A.   The plat shall be a permanent copy or a photographic print made on a
stable plastic film. Exact copies of the plat to be recorded shall be provided
to and filed with the County Recorder, Assessor and Auditor. The original plat
drawing shall remain the property of the registered land surveyor.
   B.   The size of each sheet showing any portion of the subdivided lands
shall not be greater than 18 inches by 24 inches or less than eight and one-
half by 11 inches.
   C.   Whenever more than one sheet is used to accurately portray the lands
subdivided, each sheet shall display the number of the sheet and the total
number of sheets included in the plat, as well as clearly labeled match lines
indicating where the other sheets adjoin. An index sheet shall be provided to
show the relationship between the sheets.
   D.   A maximum scale of 100 feet to one inch shall be used unless permission
for use of a different scale is obtained in writing from the Council. The scale
used shall be clearly stated and graphically illustrated by a bar scale drawn
on every sheet showing any portion of the lands subdivided.
   E.   Subdivisions shall be designated, by name or as otherwise prescribed,
in bold letters inside the margin at the top of each sheet included in the
plat.
   F.   An arrow indicating the northern direction shall be drawn in a
prominent place on each sheet included in the plat, as well as the scale and
date.
   G.   All monuments to be of record shall be adequately described and clearly
identified on the plat. When additional monuments are to be established
subsequent to the recording of the plat, the location of the additional
monuments shall be shown on the plat.
   H.   Sufficient survey data shall be shown to positively describe the bounds
of every lot, block, street, easement or other areas shown on the plat, as well
as the outer boundaries of the subdivided lands.
   I.   All distances shall be shown in feet to the nearest one-hundredth of a
foot, and in accordance with the definition of a foot adopted by the United
States Bureau of Standards. All measurements shall refer to the horizontal
plane.
   J.   The course of every boundary line shown on the plat shall be indicated
by a direct bearing reference or by an angle between the boundary line and an
intersecting line having a shown bearing, except when the boundary line has an
irregular or constantly changing course, as along a body of water, or when a
description of the boundary line is better achieved by measurements shown at
points or intervals along a meander line having a shown course. All bearings
and angles shown shall be given to at least the nearest minute of arc.
   K.   Curve data shall be stated in terms of radius, central angle and
tangent, or length of curve. In all cases, the curve data must be shown for the
line affected.
   L.   The minimum unadjusted acceptable error of closure for all subdivision
boundaries shall be 1:10,000 and shall be 1:5,000 for any individual lot.
   M.   When any lot or portion of the subdivision is bounded by an irregular
line, the major portion of that lot or subdivision shall be enclosed by a
meander line showing complete data with distances along all lines extending
beyond the enclosure to the irregular boundary shown with as much certainty as
can be determined or as “more or less,” if variable. In all cases, the true
boundary shall be clearly indicated on the plat.
   N.   All interior excepted parcels shall be clearly indicated and labeled,
“not a part of this plat.”
   O.   All adjoining properties shall be identified and where such adjoining
properties are a part of a recorded subdivision, the name of that subdivision
shall be shown. If the subdivision platted is a resubdivision of a part or the
whole of a previously recorded subdivision, sufficient ties shall be shown to
controlling lines appearing on the earlier plat to permit an overlay to be
made. Re-subdivisions shall be labeled as such in a subtitle following the name
of the subdivision wherever the name appears on the plat.
   P.   The purpose of any easement shown on the plat shall be clearly stated
and shall be confined to only those easement pertaining to public utilities
including gas, power, telephone, water, sewer and such drainage easements as
are deemed necessary for the orderly development of the land encompassed within
the plat.
   Q.   A strip of land shall not be reserved by the subdivider unless the land
is of sufficient size and shape to be of some practical use or service as
determined by the Council.
   R.   The purpose of all areas dedicated to the public must be clearly
indicated on the plat.
   S.   The plat shall contain a statement by a registered land surveyor that
the plat was prepared by the surveyor or under the surveyor’s direct personal
supervision and shall be signed and dated by the surveyor and bear the
surveyor’s Iowa registration number or seal.
   T.   Street names and clear designation of public alleys.
   U.   Block and lot numbers.
   V.   Name and address of owner and subdivider.
   W.   Accurate dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved for
public use.
   X.   The plat shall be signed and acknowledged by the subdivision land owner
and his or her spouse.
   Y.   A sealed certification of the accuracy of the plat by the registered
land surveyor who drew the plat.
2.   Information to be Provided in Accompanying Material. The following
material shall be submitted with the final plat:
   A.   A correct legal description of the subdivision land.
   B.   A statement by the proprietors and their spouses, if any, that the plat
is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire, signed
and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgments of
deeds. The statement by the proprietors may also include a dedication to the
public of all lands within the plat that are designated for streets, alleys,
parks, open areas, school property, or other public use, if the dedication is
approved by the Council.
   C.   A statement from the mortgage holders or lienholders, if any, that the
plat is prepared with their free consent and in accordance with their desire,
signed and acknowledged before an officer authorized to take the acknowledgment
of deeds. An affidavit and bond as provided for in Section 354.12 of the Code
of Iowa may be recorded in lieu of the consent of the mortgage or lienholder.
When a mortgage or lienholder consents to the subdivision, a release of
mortgage or lien shall be recorded for any areas conveyed to the City or
dedicated to the public.
   D.   An opinion by an attorney-at-law who has examined the abstract of title
of the land being platted. The opinion shall state the names of the proprietors
and holders of mortgages, liens or other encumbrances on the land being platted
and shall note the encumbrances, along with any bonds securing the
encumbrances. Utility easements shall not be construed to be encumbrances for
the purpose of this section.
   E.   A certificate of the County Treasurer that the land is free from
certified taxes and certified special assessments or that the land is free from
certified taxes and that the certified special assessments are secured by bond
in compliance with Section 354.12 of the Code of Iowa.
   F.   A resolution and certificate for approval by the Council and for
signatures of the Mayor and Clerk.
   G.   A certificate by the City Engineer that all required improvements and
installations have been completed according to the construction plans submitted
to the City prior to construction or with the final plat if not constructed, or
that a performance bond guaranteeing completion has been approved by the City
Attorney and filed with the Clerk, or that the Council has agreed that the City
will provide the necessary improvements and installations and assess the costs
against the subdivider or future property owners in the subdivision.
   H.   The encumbrance bond, if any.
166.20   SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT.
The subdivider shall prepare a final plat in accordance with the provisions of
Section
166.19 and shall file with the Clerk an application in triplicate for the final
approval of the plat. The application shall:
1.   Forms and Fees. Be made on forms available from the Clerk together with a
fee of $50.00 per lot.
2.   Number of Copies of Plat. Be accompanied by a minimum of 10 copies of the
final plat.
3.   Offers of Dedication. Be accompanied by all formal irrevocable offers of
dedication to the public of all streets, City uses, utilities and easements, in
a form approved by the City Attorney.
4.   Time of Submission. Be presented to the Clerk at least four weeks prior to
the regular meeting of the Council.
166.21   REFERRAL OF FINAL PLAT.
The Clerk shall immediately refer two copies of the final plat to the City
Engineer and seven copies to the Commission. In the case of a subdivision
outside the corporate limits of the City, the Clerk shall refer one copy of the
final plat to the County Board of Supervisors.
166.22   ACTION BY THE COMMISSION.
The Commission shall, upon receiving the final plat, as soon as possible, but
within 30 days of receiving the final plat, consider the final plat, and if the
same is recommended for approval, shall submit its recommendation of approval
to the Council together with a certified copy of its resolution showing the
action of the Commission. If the Commission recommends approval of the final
plat, such approval and the date thereof shall be noted on the plat over the
signature of both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission and the plat
and five copies shall be transmitted to the Council, and one copy shall be
returned to the subdivider.
166.23   ACTION BY THE COUNCIL.
Upon receipt of the certification by the Commission, the Council shall, within
60 days, either approve or disapprove the final plat.
1.   Disapproval of Plat. In the event that said plat is disapproved by the
Council, such disapproval shall be expressed in writing and shall point out
wherein said proposed plat is objectionable.
2.   Acceptance of Plat. In the event that said plat is found to be acceptable
and in accordance with this chapter, the Council shall accept the same.
3.   Final Approval and Recording of Plat. The passage of a resolution by the
Council accepting the plat shall constitute final approval of the platting of
the area shown on the final plat, but the subdivider or owner shall cause such
plat to be recorded in the office of the County Recorder, and shall file
satisfactory evidence of such recording in the office of the Clerk before the
City shall recognize the plat as being in full force and effect.
166.24   RESUBDIVISION OF LAND.
The following requirements shall govern the resubdividing of land.
1.   Procedure for Resubdividing. For any change in a map of an approved or
recorded subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout shown on
such map, or area reserved for public use indicated on the map, or any lot
line, or if it affects any map or plan legally established prior to the
adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions, such parcel shall be
approved by the same procedure, rules and regulations as for a subdivision.
2.   Acreage Lots. Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision
plat shows one or more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are
indications that such lots will eventually be resubdivided into smaller
building sites, the Commission and Council may require that such parcel of land
allow for future opening of streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent
streets. Easements providing for the future opening and extension of such
streets may be made a requirement of the plat.
166.25   COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
Before the final plat is approved by the Council, all applicants shall be
required to complete, in accordance with the Council’s decision and to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer, all the street, sanitary sewer, water and
other improvements as required in these regulations, specified in the final
plat, and as approved by the Council, and to dedicate the same to the City,
free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the property and public
improvements thus dedicated.
166.26   PERFORMANCE BOND.
The Council in its discretion may waive the requirement that the applicant
complete and dedicate all public improvements prior to approving the final
plat, and that, as an alternative, the applicant post a bond at the time of
application for final plat approval in an amount estimated by the Council as
sufficient to secure to the City the satisfactory construction, installation
and dedication of the incompleted portion of required improvements. In
addition:
1.   Approved by City Attorney. Such performance bond shall comply with all
statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to the City Attorney as to
form, sufficiency, and manner of execution as set forth in these regulations.
2.   Completion Period. The period within which required improvements must be
completed shall be specified by the Council in the resolution approving the
final plat shall be incorporated in the bond, and shall not exceed one year
from date of final approval.
3.   Extension of Completion Period. The performance bond shall be approved by
the Council as to the amount and surety and conditions satisfactory to the
Council. The Commission may, upon proof of difficulty, recommend to the Council
an extension of the completion date set forth in such bond for a maximum period
of one additional year. The Council may at any time during the period of such
bond accept a substitution of principal or sureties on the bond.
4.   Temporary Improvements. The applicant shall build and pay for all costs of
temporary improvements required by the Council and shall maintain same for the
period specified by the Council. Prior to the construction of any temporary
facility or improvement, the developer shall file with the City a separate
suitable bond for temporary facilities, which bond shall insure that the
temporary facilities will be properly constructed, maintained and removed.
5.   Failure to Complete Improvement. For subdivisions for which no performance
bond has been posted, if the improvements are not completed within the period
specified by the Council in the resolution approving the plat, the approval
shall be deemed to have expired. In those cases where a performance bond has
been posted and required improvements have not been installed within the terms
of such performance bond, the City may declare the bond to be in default and
require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the extent of the
building development at the time the bond is declared to be in default.
166.27   INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
The Council shall provide for inspection of required improvements during
construction and insure their satisfactory completion. The applicant shall pay
to the City an inspection fee equal to the actual cost of inspection. These
fees shall be due and payable upon demand of the City and no building permits
or certificates of occupancy shall be issued until all fees are paid. The
subdivider shall furnish the Council with a construction schedule prior to the
commencement of any and all construction, and notify the City not less than 24
hours in advance of readiness for required inspections.
166.28   RELEASE OR REDUCTION OF PERFORMANCE BOND.
The performance bond may not be released or reduced except as follows:
1.   Certificate of Satisfactory Completion. The Council will not accept
dedication of required improvements, nor release or reduce a performance bond,
until the City Engineer has submitted a certificate stating that all required
improvements have been satisfactorily completed and until the applicant’s
engineer has certified to the City through submission of detailed “as built”
plans of the subdivision indicating location, dimensions, materials and other
information required by the City, that all public improvements are in
accordance with construction plans for the subdivision.
2.   Reduction of Performance Bond. A performance bond may be reduced upon
actual dedication of public improvements and then only to the ratio that the
public improvement dedicated bears to the total public improvements for the
plat.
166.29   MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
Improvements shall be maintained and a maintenance bond provided as follows:
1.   Maintenance of Improvements Before Acceptance. The applicant shall be
required to maintain all improvements on the individual subdivided lots and
provide for snow removal on streets and sidewalks, if required, until
acceptance of said improvements by the Council. If there are any certificates
of occupancy on a street not dedicated to the City, the City may, on 12 hours’
notice, plow the street or effect emergency repairs and charge same to
applicant.
2.   Maintenance Bond. The applicant shall be required to file a maintenance
bond with the Council, prior to dedication, in an amount considered adequate by
the Council and in a form satisfactory to the City Attorney, in order to assure
the satisfactory condition of the required improvements for a period of two
years after the date of their acceptance by the Council and dedication of same
to the Council.
166.30   DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
Required improvements may be deferred or waived as follows:
1.   Waiver of Required Improvements. The Council may defer or waive at the
time of final approval, subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any
or all such improvements as in its judgment are not requisite in the interests
of the public health, safety and general welfare, or which are inappropriate
because of inadequacy or lack of connecting facilities.
2.   Deferral of Required Improvements. Whenever it is deemed necessary by the
Council to defer the construction of any improvement required herein because of
incompatible grades, future planning, inadequate or lack of connecting
facilities, or for other reasons, the applicant shall pay his or her share of
the costs of the future improvements to the City prior to the approval of the
final plat, or the applicant may post a bond insuring completion of said
improvements upon demand of the City.
166.31   ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the extent of street
improvement is adequate for vehicular access by the prospective occupant and by
police and fire equipment.
166.32   IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
The subdivider shall install and construct all improvements required by these
regulations in accordance with the specifications and under the supervision of
the Council and to its satisfaction.
166.33   DESIGN STANDARDS ARE MINIMUM.
The standards and details of design herein contained are intended only as
minimum requirements so that the general arrangement and layout of a
subdivision may be adjusted to a wide variety of circumstances. However, in the
design and development of the subdivision, the subdivider shall use standards
consistent with the site conditions so as to assure an economical, pleasant and
durable neighborhood.
166.34   CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
In addition to the requirements established herein, all subdividers shall
comply with the following laws, rules and regulations.
1.   State Statutes. All applicable statutes of the State of Iowa.
2.   City Plans. Any comprehensive plan, public utilities plan and capital
improvements program of the City.
3.   State Agency Rules. The requirements and rules of State agencies such as
the State Department of Natural Resources, State Department of Health and the
State Department of Transportation, where applicable.
4.   County Standards and Regulations. The standards and regulations of the
County Board of Supervisors and County commissions, boards and agencies where
applicable.
5.   City Standards and Regulations. The standards and regulations adopted by
the Council, boards, commissions and agencies of the City.
6.   Plat Approval and Conformity. Plat approval may be withheld if a
subdivision is not in conformance with the above guides or policy and purposes
of these regulations.
166.35   SUBDIVISION NAME.
The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate, or too closely
approximate phonetically, the name of any other subdivision in the area covered
by these regulations. The Council, after consultation with the Commission,
shall have the final authority to designate the name of the subdivision which
shall be determined at preliminary plat approval.
166.36   MONUMENTATION.
Monuments shall be in conformance with the following requirements:
1.   Establishment of Permanent Control Monuments. Prior to the offering of the
plat of any subdivision for record, the surveyor shall confirm the prior
establishment of permanent control monuments at each controlling corner on the
boundaries of the parcel or tract of land being subdivided. If no permanent
control monuments exist, the surveyor shall establish at least two permanent
control monuments for each block created, or if the area subdivided into lots
is less than a block in size, at least two permanent control monuments shall be
established for the subdivision. Permanent control monuments shall be
constructed of reasonably permanent material solidly embedded in the ground and
capable of being detected by commonly used magnetic or electronic equipment.
The surveyor shall affix a cap of reasonably inert material bearing an embossed
or stencil cut marking of the Iowa registration number of the surveyor to the
top of the monument.
2.   Other Monuments of Record. Other monuments established prior to the
recording of the plat of the subdivision and described on the plat shall be
considered monuments of record and shall be given the same weight as original
permanent control monuments if the monuments remain undisturbed in their
original positions. The additional monuments shall be constructed and embedded
according to the provisions for permanent control monuments according to the
provisions for permanent control monuments prescribed in Subsection 1 of this
section.
3.   Establishment and Recording of Other Monuments. Monuments other than the
permanent control monuments required in Subsection 1 of this section shall not
be required to be established before the recording of the plat or the
conveyancing of lands by reference to the plat if the registered land surveyor
includes in the surveyor’s statement on the plat that the additional monuments
required by these regulations shall be established before a specified future
date.
4.   Additional Monuments Required. Additional monuments shall be constructed
and embedded according to the provisions for permanent control monuments
prescribed in Subsection 1 of this section, and shall be set in all of the
following locations whether set prior to the recording of the plat, or
subsequent to such recording:
   A.   At every corner and angle point of every lot, block or parcel of land
created.
   B.   At every point of intersection of the outer boundary of the subdivision
with an existing or created right-of-way line of any street, railroad or other
way.
   C.   At every point of curve, tangency, reversed curve or compounded curve
on every right-of-way line established.
5.   Placement of Monument. When the placement of a monument required by this
chapter at the prescribed location is impractical, it is permissible to
establish a reference monument in close proximity to the prescribed location.
If the reference monument is established prior to the recording of the plat and
its location properly shown on the plat, the reference monument shall have the
same status as other monuments of record. Where any point requiring
monumentation has been previously monumented, the existence of the monument
shall be confirmed by the surveyor. The existing monument shall be considered a
monument of record when properly shown and described on the recorded plat.
166.37   CHARACTER OF THE LAND.
Land which the City finds to be unsuitable for subdivision or development due
to flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth
formations or topography, utility easements or other features which will
reasonably be harmful to the safety, health and general welfare of the present
or future inhabitants of the subdivision or its surrounding areas or both,
shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are formulated by
the subdivider and approved by the Council, upon recommendation of the
Commission, to solve the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions.
Such land shall be set aside for uses as shall not involve such a danger.
166.38   LOTS.
The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation shall be appropriate for the
location of the subdivision and for the type of development and use
contemplated.
1.   Lot Size. Minimum lot dimensions and sizes shall conform to the
requirements of the zoning regulations where applicable, but in no case shall a
lot contain less than 5,000 square feet of area or be less than 50 feet wide
measured at the building line.
   A.   Residential lots where not served by public sewer shall be of
sufficient size, as determined by the City and subject to any applicable State
or County rules or regulations, to accommodate the type of private sewage
disposal system proposed by the developer.
   B.   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for commercial and
industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street service and
parking facilities required by the type of use and development contemplated.
   C.   Corner lots for residential use shall have an extra 20 feet of width to
permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
2.   Street Access. Each lot shall be provided with satisfactory access to a
public street.
3.   Double Frontage and Reverse Frontage Lots. Double frontage and reverse
frontage lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation of
residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at
least 10 feet, and across which there shall be no right of access, shall be
provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or other
disadvantageous use.
4.   Side Lot Lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
5.   Lot Drainage. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage
away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with
the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so
as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent
lots.
6.   Building Lines. Building lines conforming with zoning standards shall be
shown on all lots within the platted area. Where the subdivided area is not
under zoning control, the Council may require building lines in accordance with
the needs of each subdivision.
166.39   BLOCKS.
Blocks shall conform to the following requirements:
1.   Provision for Lots. Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two
tiers of lots of appropriate depths. Exceptions shall be permitted in blocks
adjacent to arterial streets, railroads or waterways.
2.   Design Considerations. The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be
determined with due regard to:
   A.   Provision for adequate building sites.
   B.   Zoning requirements where applicable.
   C.   Topography.
   D.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of street
traffic.
3.   Block Lengths. The lengths of blocks shall be appropriate to the type of
development contemplated, but block lengths in residential developments shall
not exceed 1,320 feet.
4.   Easement Reservation. In blocks over 800 feet in length, the Council may
require the reservation of an easement to accommodate utilities, drainage
facilities or pedestrian traffic.
5.   Pedestrian Crosswalks. Pedestrian crosswalks, not less than 10 feet wide,
may be required by the Council through the center of blocks more than 800 feet
in length. Pedestrian crosswalks shall not exceed twelve percent in grade
unless steps of an approved design are to be constructed.
166.40   STREETS – GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
Streets shall conform with the following general requirements:
1.   Frontage on Improved Roads. No subdivision shall be approved unless the
area to be subdivided shall have frontage on and access from an existing
street.
2.   Grading and Improvement Plan. Streets shall be graded and improved and
conform to the City construction standards and specifications and shall be
approved as to design and specifications by the City Engineer, in accordance
with the construction plans required to be submitted.
3.   Topography and Arrangement. Streets shall be conformance with the
following requirements related to topography and arrangement:
   A.   Streets shall be related appropriately to be topography. All streets
shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as possible of the building sites at
or above the grades of the streets. Grades of streets shall conform as closely
as possible to the original topography. A combination of steep grades and
curves shall be avoided. Specific standards are contained in the design
standards of these regulations.
   B.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and proposed
system of streets an dedicated right-of-way.
   C.   All arterials shall be properly related to special traffic generators
such as industries, business districts, schools, churches and shopping centers;
to population densities; and to the pattern of existing and proposed land uses.
   D.   Municipal service streets shall be laid out to conform as much as
possible to the topography to discourage use by through traffic, to permit
efficient drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of
streets necessary to provide convenient and safe access to property.
   E.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract
to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions,
or unless in the opinion of the Council such extension is not necessary or
desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision with the
existing layout or the most advantageous future development of adjacent tracts.
   F.   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas, and walks and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of
movement between the various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
4.   Access to State or County Jurisdictional Roads. Whenever any part of a
subdivision is designed with access to a road under State or County
jurisdiction, permission for access to such roads shall be obtained from the
appropriate jurisdiction and such access shall be designed according to the
standards of the appropriate jurisdiction.
5.   Access to Arterial Streets. Where a subdivision borders on or contains an
existing or proposed arterial street, the Council may require that lot access
to such streets be limited by one of the following means:
   A.   Lots shall be designed so as to back onto the primary arterial and
front onto a parallel municipal service street; no access shall be provided
from the arterial street, and screening shall be provided in a strip of land
along the rear property line of such lots.
   B.   A series of cul-de-sacs entered from and designed generally at right
angles to such a parallel street, with the rear lines of their terminal lots
backing onto the arterial street.
   C.   A frontage or service road, separated from the primary arterial by a
planting or grass strip and having access thereto at suitable points.
6.   Street Names. Streets that are in alignment with others already existing
shall bear the name of the existing streets. The proposed names of new streets
shall not duplicate or sound similar to existing street names. Street names
shall be subject to the approval of the Council and Commission.
7.   Street Name Signs. Street name signs are to be placed at all intersections
within or abutting the subdivision, the type and location of which to be
approved by the Council. The City shall install all street name signs. The
applicant shall deposit with the City at the time of final subdivision approval
the estimated cost of installation of each street sign required by the Council.
8.   Street Lights. Installation of street lights shall be required in
accordance with design and specification standards approved by the Council.
9.   Construction of Streets and Dead-end Streets. Streets and dead-end streets
shall be in conformance with the following requirements:
   A.   Construction of Streets. The arrangement of streets shall provide for
the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire
protection, and for efficient provision of utilities. If the adjacent property
is undeveloped and the street must be a dead-end street temporarily, the right-
of-way shall be extended to the property line. A temporary T or L shaped
turnabout shall be provided on all temporary dead-end streets, with the
notation on the subdivision plat that land outside the normal street right-of-
way shall revert to abutters whenever the street is continued. The Council may
limit the length of temporary dead-end streets in accordance with the design
standards of these regulations.
   B.   Permanent Dead-end Streets. Where a road does not extend to the
boundary of the subdivision and its continuation is not required by the Council
for access to adjoining property, its terminus shall normally not be nearer to
such boundary than 150 feet. However, the Council may require the reservation
of an appropriate easement to accommodate drainage facilities, pedestrian
traffic or utilities. A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be provided at the end of a
permanent dead-end street in accordance with City construction standards and
specifications. For greater convenience to traffic and more effective police
and fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall, in general, be limited
in length in accordance with the design standards of these regulations.
166.41   STREETS – DESIGN STANDARDS.
The following design standards shall apply to the design of streets:
1.   General. In order to provide for streets of suitable location, width and
improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory access
to police, fire fighting, snow removal, sanitation and street maintenance
equipment, and to coordinate streets so as to compose a convenient system and
avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the following design standards
for streets are hereby required:
   A.   A tangent of at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between reverse
curves on municipal arterial and municipal collector streets, and 75 feet on
municipal service streets.
   B.   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one point
by more than 10 degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a radius
adequate to insure a sight distance of not less than 100 feet for municipal
service and municipal collector streets, and of such greater radii as the
Council shall determine for special cases.
   C.   Minimum Roadway and Right-of-way Standards:
      (1)   Municipal arterial streets shall have a right-of-way width of not
less than 80 feet and a roadway width of not less than 44 feet.
      (2)   Municipal collector streets shall have a right-of-way width of not
less than 80 feet and a roadway width of not less than 36 feet.
      (3)    Municipal service streets shall have a right-of-way width of not
less than 80 feet and a roadway width of not less than 31 feet, or 27 feet with
no parking.
      (4)   Frontage streets shall have a right-of-way width of not less than
80 feet and a roadway width of not less than 26 feet.
      (5)   Cul-de-sacs shall meet all the requirements for a municipal service
street and, in addition, shall provide a turnaround with a right-of-way radius
of 50 feet and a roadway radius of 40 feet. No cul-de-sac shall exceed 600 feet
in length.
   D.   Street grades, wherever feasible, shall not exceed the following:
      (1)   Municipal arterial streets - six percent
      (2)   Municipal collector streets - eight percent
      (3)   Municipal service streets – 10 percent
      (4)   Frontage streets - six percent.
   E.   All changes in street grade shall be connected by vertical curves of
minimum length in feet equal to 20 times the algebraic difference in percents
of grade.
   F.   No street grade shall be less than four-tenths of one percent.
2.   Street Surfacing and Improvements. After sewer, water and other utilities
to be located underground within the right-of-way have been installed by the
applicant, the applicant shall construct curbs and gutters of Portland cement
concrete and shall surface or cause to be surfaced roadways to the widths
prescribed in these regulations. Said surfacing shall be of Portland concrete
cement or full depth asphaltic concrete of equivalent bearing capacity. Design
of pouring shall be based on anticipated traffic 20 years from construction.
Adequate provisions shall be made for culverts, drains and bridges. All road
pavement, shoulders, drainage improvements and structures, curbs, turnarounds
and sidewalks shall conform to all construction standards and specifications
adopted by the City, and shall be incorporated into the construction plans
required to be submitted by the developer for plat approval.
3.   Excess Right-of-Way. Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards
designated in these regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes
shall not be in excess of three to one.
4.   Railroads and Limited Access Highways. Railroad rights-of-way and limited
access highways were so located as to affect the subdivision of adjoining lands
shall be treated as follows:
   A.   In residential districts, a buffer strip at least 25 feet in depth in
addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall be
provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access highway. This
strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated on the plat:
“This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of structures hereon is
prohibited.”
   B.   In districts zoned for business, commercial or industrial uses, the
nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
shall, wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
   C.   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade shall, to the extent practicable, be at a
distance of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way. Such distance
shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for
future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
5.   Intersections. The following standards shall apply to the design of
intersections:
   A.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an angle of less
than 75 degrees shall not be acceptable. An oblique street should be curved
approaching an intersection and should be approximately at right angles for at
least 100 feet therefrom. No more than two streets shall intersect at any one
point unless specifically approved by the Council.
   B.   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street shall,
wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the opposite
side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet
shall not be permitted, except where the intersected street has separated dual
drives without median breaks at either intersection. Where streets intersect
major streets, their alignment shall be continuous. Intersection of major
streets shall be at least 800 feet apart.
   C.   Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two municipal service
streets shall be at least 15 feet; and minimum curb radius at an intersection
involving a municipal collector street shall be at least 20 feet. Abrupt
changes in alignment within a block shall have the corners cut off in
accordance with standard engineering practice to permit safe vehicular
movement.
   D.   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever practical.
In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a leveling area
shall be provided having not greater than a two percent rate at a distance of
60 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting
street.
   E.   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation, including
trees, in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent
deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
   F.   The cross-slopes on all streets, including intersections, shall be
three percent or less.
6.   Bridges. Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined by the
Council, shall be constructed at the full expense of the applicant without
reimbursement from the City. The sharing expense for the construction of
bridges not of primary benefit to the applicant as determined by the Council,
will be fixed by special agreement between the Council and the applicant. Said
cost shall be charged to the applicant pro rata as the percentage of his or her
land developed and so served.
7.   Alleys. The following design standards for alleys shall be required of all
subdividers:
   A.   Alleys shall be prohibited in residential districts.
   B.   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts, except
that the Council may waive this requirement where other definite and assured
provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading and
parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
   C.   Alleys shall have a right-of-way of not less than 20 feet and a roadway
width of not less than 10 feet.
   D.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
   E.   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end, as
determined by the Council.
8.   Street Dedications and Reservations. The following provisions shall apply
to street dedications and reservations:
   A.   Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so as to eliminate
or avoid new perimeter half streets. Where an existing half street is adjacent
to a new subdivision, the other half of the street shall be improved and
dedicated by the subdivider. The Council may authorize a new perimeter street
where the subdivider improves and dedicates the entire required street right-
of-way width within his or her own subdivision boundaries.
   B.   Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow street or when City
plans or zoning setback regulations indicate plans for realignment or widening
a road that would require use of some of the land in the subdivision, the
applicant shall be required to improve and dedicate at his expense such areas
for widening or realignment of such roads. Such frontage roads and streets
shall be improved and dedicated by the applicant at his or her own expense to
the full width as required by these subdivision regulations. Land reserved for
any street purposes may not be counted in satisfying yard or area requirements
of the zoning regulations whether the land is to be dedicated to the City in
fee simple or an easement is granted to the City.
166.42   STORM SEWERS AND DRAINAGE.
The following requirements shall apply to the provision of storm sewers and
drainage:
1.   General Requirements. The Commission shall not recommend for approval any
plat of a subdivision which does not make adequate provision for storm or flood
water run-off channels or basins. The storm water drainage system shall be
separate and independent of any sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers, where
required, shall be designed by methods as approved by the Council, and a copy
of design computations shall be submitted along with plans. Inlets shall be
provided so that surface water is not carried across or around any
intersection, or for a distance of more than 600 feet in the gutter. When
calculations indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a point, no further
allowance shall be made for flow beyond that point, and basins shall be used to
intercept flow at that point. Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown
for each and every lot and block.
2.   Nature of Storm Water Facilities. The applicant may be required by the
Council to carry away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that
may exist either previously to or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage
facilities shall be located in the road right-of-way where feasible, or in
perpetual unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be constructed
in accordance with the construction standards and specifications.
   A.   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall install
storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable distance,
adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of storm waters, subject to
the specifications of the Council. However, in subdivisions containing lots
less than 15,000 square feet in area and in business and industrial districts,
underground storm sewer systems shall be constructed throughout the
subdivisions and be conducted to an approved outfall.
   B.   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided eventually, as
determined by the Council, the subdivider shall make arrangement for future
storm water disposal by a public storm sewer system at the time the plat
receives final approval. Provision for such connection shall be incorporated by
inclusion in the performance bond required for the subdivision plat.
   C.   A culvert or other drainage facility shall in each case be large enough
to accommodate potential runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether
inside or outside the subdivision. The Council shall determine the necessary
size of the facility, based on the provisions of the construction standards and
specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed development
permitted by applicable zoning regulations.
   D.   The Council shall also study the effect of each subdivision on existing
downstream drainage facilities outside the area of the subdivision. City
drainage studies together with such other studies as shall be appropriate shall
serve as a guide to needed improvements. Where it is anticipated that the
additional runoff incident to the development of the subdivision will overload
an existing downstream drainage facility, the Council may withhold approval of
the subdivision until provision has been made for the recovery of the cost for
the improvement of said potential condition in such sum as the Council shall
determine. No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate drainage will be
provided to an adequate drainage watercourse or facility.
   E.   The Council may, when it deems it necessary for the health, safety or
welfare of the present and future population of the area and necessary to the
conservation of water, drainage and sanitary facilities, prohibit the
subdivision of any portion of the property which lies within the flood plain of
any stream or drainage course.
3.   Dedication of Drainage Easements or Drainage Right-of-ways. The following
shall apply to the dedication of drainage easements or drainage right-of-ways.
   A.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel
or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage right-of-
way conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse, and of such
width and construction or both as will be adequate for the purpose. Wherever
possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by an open channel
with landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum potential volume of flow.
   B.   Drainage easements:
      (1)   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within street rights-of-way,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for such drainage
facilities shall be provided across property outside the street lines and with
satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
Drainage easements shall be carried from the street to a natural watercourse or
to other drainage facilities.
      (2)   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
      (3)   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation easement of land on both sides of existing watercourses, to a
distance to be determined by the Council.
      (4)   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as drainage
ways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be computed in
determining the area requirement of any lot.
166.43   WATER FACILITIES.
Water facilities shall be provided as follows:
1.   General Requirements. The following general requirements shall apply to
the provision of water facilities:
   A.   Where a public water main is accessible the subdivider shall install
adequate water facilities, including fire hydrants, subject to City
specifications. All water mains shall be at least six inches in diameter.
   B.   Water main extensions shall be approved by the City.
   C.   To facilitate the above, the location of all fire hydrants and all
water supply improvements shall be shown on the preliminary plat.
2.   Individual Wells and Central Water Systems. The following requirements
shall apply to the provision of individual wells and central water systems:
   A.   In the discretion of the Council, if a public water system is not
available, individual wells may be used or a central water system provided in
such a manner that an adequate supply of potable water will be available to
every lot in the subdivision. Water samples shall be submitted to the
appropriate County or State agency for testing, and individual wells and
central water systems shall be approved by the appropriate County or State
health authorities. Orders of approval shall be submitted to the Council.
   B.   If the Council requires that a connection to a public water main be
eventually provided as a condition to approval of an individual well or central
water system, the applicant shall make arrangements for future water service at
the time the plat receives final approval. Performance or cash bonds may be
required to insure compliance.
3.   Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions except
those coming under Subsection 2 of this section. Fire hydrants shall be located
no more than 1,000 feet apart and within 500 feet of any structures and shall
be approved by the City.
166.44   SEWAGE FACILITIES.
Sewage facilities shall be provided as follows:
1.   General Requirements. The applicant shall install sanitary sewer
facilities in a manner prescribed by the City construction standards and
specifications. All plans shall be designed in accordance with the rules,
regulations and standards of the City and the State Department of Natural
Resources or State Department of Health. Plans shall be approved by the above
agencies.
2.   Construction of Sanitary Sewage Systems. Sanitary sewage systems shall be
constructed as follows:
   A.   Where a public sanitary sewage system is reasonably accessible, the
applicant shall connect with the same and provide sewers accessible to each lot
in the subdivision.
   B.   Where public sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible and
will not become available within a reasonable time, not to exceed of 15 years,
the applicant may choose one of the following alternatives:
      (1)   Install a central sewage system, operated and maintained by the
benefited property owners. Where plans for future public sanitary sewage
systems exist, the applicant shall install the sewer lines, laterals and mains
to be in permanent conformance with such plans and ready for connection to such
public sewer mains.
      (2)   Individual disposal systems, provided the applicant shall install
sanitary sewer lines, laterals and mains from the street curb to a point in the
subdivision boundary where a future connection with the public sewer main shall
be made. Sewer lines shall be laid from the house to the street line, and a
connection shall be available in the home to connect from the individual
disposal system to the sewer system when the public sewers become available.
Such sewer systems shall be capped until ready for use and shall conform to all
plans for installation of the public sewer system, where such exist, and shall
be ready for connection to such public sewer main.
   C.   Where sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible and will not
become available for a period in excess of 15 years, the applicant shall
install individual disposal systems or central sewage systems.
3.   Individual Disposal System Requirements. If public sewer facilities are
not available and individual disposal systems are proposed, minimum lot areas
shall conform to the requirements of applicable zoning regulations and these
regulations. Percolation tests and test holes shall be made as directed by the
City and the results submitted to the local board of health.
4.   Water Supply Interconnections. There shall be no physical connection
between a public or private potable water supply system and a sewer which will
permit the passage of any sewage or polluted water into the potable supply.
Sewers shall be kept removed from water supply wells or other water supply
sources and structures.
166.45   SIDEWALKS.
The following requirements shall apply to the provision of sidewalks:
1.   Location. Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated non-pavement
right-of-way of all streets.
2.   Construction. Sidewalks shall be improved as required in Subsection 2 of
Section
166.41 of these regulations.
166.46   UTILITIES.
The following shall apply to the provision of utilities:
1.   Location. The Council may require that all utility facilities, including,
but not limited to, gas, electric power, telephone and CATV cables, be located
underground through the subdivision. All utility facilities existing and
proposed throughout the subdivision shall be shown on the preliminary plat.
Underground service connections to the street property line of each platted
lot, including stub-ins, shall be installed at the subdivider’s expense. At the
discretion of the Council, the requirement for service connections to each lot
may be waived in the case of adjoining lots to be retained in single ownership
and intended to be developed for the same primary use.
2.   Easements. Easements shall be provided as follows:
   A.   Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for utilities.
Such easements shall be at least 10 feet wide. Proper coordination shall be
established between the subdivider and the applicable utility companies for the
establishment of utility easements established in adjoining properties.
   B.   Where topographical or other conditions are such as to make impractical
the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual unobstructed
easements at least 10 feet in width shall be provided alongside lot lines with
satisfactory access to the street or rear lot lines. Easements shall be
indicated on the plat.
166.47   PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES.
Existing features which would add value to residential development or to the
City as a whole, such as trees, watercourses and falls, beaches, historic spots
and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be preserved in the design of the
subdivision. No trees shall be removed from any subdivision nor any change of
grade of the land effected until approval of the preliminary plat has been
granted. All trees on the plat required to be retained shall be preserved, and
all trees where required shall be protected against change of grade.
166.48   NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
The following provisions shall apply to nonresidential subdivisions:
1.   General. If a proposed subdivision includes land that is used for
commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect
to such land shall make such provision as the Council may require. A
nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of these
regulations, as well as such additional standards required by the Council, and
shall conform to the proposed land use and standards established in City plans
and regulations.
2.   Standards. In addition to the principles and standards in these
regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City that the street,
parcel and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses
anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following
principles and standards shall be observed:
   A.   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions to
the types of industrial development anticipated.
   B.   Streets rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate the
type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
   C.   Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to street,
curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
   D.   Special requirements may be imposed by the City with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and storm water
drainage.
   E.   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas from
potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip when necessary.
   F.   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas.
166.49   SCHOOL AND PARK RESERVATIONS.
If land to be subdivided contains sites that are designated in City plans or
plans of other public bodies to be used for schools or parks, the developer
shall reserve such site for such use. If sites which have been reserved are not
acquired by the City or other public body within two years of the date of the
preliminary plat approval, then such sites may be subdivided by the developer.
The appropriate public body may release the reserved site sooner by certifying
to the Council that it does not intend to acquire such site within the two-year
period.
166.50   IMPROVEMENTS WITHIN UNINCORPORATED JURISDICTION.
Improvements in the two-mile unincorporated area under the jurisdiction of
these regulations shall be the same as required herein, provided they are not
less than that required by the applicable County subdivision regulations, and
provided further that all construction plans shall be approved by the County,
and completed public roads shall be accepted by the Board of Supervisors for
public maintenance.
166.51   VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
The following shall apply to the granting of variations and exceptions:
1.   Hardships. Where the Council finds that extraordinary hardships or
particular difficulties regarding the physical development of land may result
from strict compliance with these regulations, it may make variations or
exceptions to the regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the
public interest secured, provided that such variation or exception shall not
have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations; and
further provided, the Council shall not grant variations or exceptions to these
regulations unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to
it in each specific case that:
   A.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health or welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located.
   B.   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought, and are not
applicable, generally, to other property.
   C.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship to the
owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict
letter of the regulations were carried out.
   D.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a desire to
make more money out of the property.
2.   Conditions. In granting variations and exceptions the Council may require
such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives
of the standards or requirements of these regulations.
3.   Procedure for a Variance. A petition for any such variance shall be
submitted in writing by the developer at the time when the preliminary plat is
filed. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the application and all
of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
166.52   CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
Any provisions of these regulations may be changed and amended from time to
time by the Council; provided, however, that such changes or amendments shall
not become effective until after a public hearing has been held, public notice
of which shall have been given as required by law. Such proposed amendments
shall first be submitted to the Commission for study and recommendation before
the hearing is held. The Commission shall forward its recommendations to the
Council within 30 days, after which the Council shall give notice of and hold a
public hearing on the proposed amendment.
166.53   ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS, AND PENALTIES.
No plat or subdivision within the City or within two miles thereof shall be
filed or recorded with the County, nor shall any plat or subdivision have any
validity until it complies with the provision of these regulations, has been
approved by the Council as herein set forth, and further:
1.   Issuance of Building Permits. No more than two building permits for each
separate tract existing at the time of the effective date of these regulations
shall be issued unless the tract has been platted in accordance with these
regulations; except that this provision shall not limit the number of building
permits that may be issued for accessory buildings as defined by applicable
land use regulations such as zoning and restricted residence regulations or
additions or improvements to a main or accessory building already legally
located upon said tract.
2.   Sale or Lease Without Plat. Any person who shall dispose of or offer for
sale or lease any lots in the City or addition to the City, until the plat
thereof has been acknowledged and recorded as provided in these regulations,
shall forfeit and pay $50.00 for each lot and part of lot sold or disposed of,
leased or offered for sale.
